The interest of members of the Australian Country Party in this matter is quite obvious from the attendance of its members in this chamber. Of course, we completely dissociate the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt),  who is interjecting, from any semblance of sense when it comes to the discussion of a matter of urgency in relation to primary industry. Look at the attendance of Australian Country Party members. Members of that Party had the hide to interject even before I started my speech, but I can see only four of them on the Country Party benches, and this number includes the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  This is the height of hypocrisy. Although we are now engaged in an important debate on primary industry the paucity of the attendance of members of the Australian Country Party is a revelation. Of course, the Minister for Primary Industry, who is interjecting, does not like what I am saying. When the old Parliament rose 5 months ago it was quite obvious that many important sectors of primary industry, particularly those producing for the export market, were in a serious financial state; and due to the dictatorial attitude of the Government in prolonging the recess for 5 months we saw during that period not one vestige of leadership given by the Government to solve this problem. We have heard plenty of speeches from the Minister for Primary Industry and others on what should be done and the tough attitude that they are going to adopt. But what we want and what the primary industry organisations of Australia want is action. The consistent refusal of the Government to give a positive lead and positive leadership to primary industry problems must be recognised as one of the major reasons why the economic condition of primary industry is deteriorating. Mounting evidence from agricultural districts throughout Australia shows quite clearly that primary producers are becoming grossly disillusioned with the negative and stalling attitude of the Government towards the serious problems of primary industries, particularly those producing for the export market. 
The Government refuses to take the initiative - and this is the main essence of my argument today - to introduce constructive measures that are urgently required to halt this serious recession in primary industry, particularly in the wool, dairying and wheat industries. The Government - and particularly the Australian Country Party section of it - takes the view that it can ignore the serious problems of primary industry because the primary producers themselves will continue to support it at elections. This is a very dangerous assumption to dwell upon because, as I have said before, it is becoming obvious that even powerful primary producer organisations such as the United Graziers Association of Queensland are fast becoming fed up with the lethargy and complacency of the Government in solving the serious problems confronting this country. As economic desperation spreads throughout the major primary industries of Australia this feeling against the Government is heightening. Primary producers realise that this Government - no one else - dominated by the Australian Country Party has been responsible over the last 20 years for the formulation of policies which are now wrecking the economic dependence of small farmers throughout Australia in particular. 
The Government's lack of leadership in the field of primary industry is analogous to or resembles that of a ventriloquist's dummy. The Government adopts the view that it will not initiate action until it receives firm recommendations from an industry itself. We hear such a cry on wool year after year. The Government says that it will not take any action because the industry leaders will not take positive action in respect of prices, for example. The Government should take positive steps and do the job people elected it to do. This is so in respect of major industry organisations such as the wool industry where there is severe, intensive factionalism and agreement cannot be reached. But the Government does nothing. This has been the history of the wool industry since the recommendation by the Australian Wool Industry Conference on the reserve price plan. I was amazed to hear on Tuesday the admission of the Minister for Primary Industry that it had been known for 5 years that the wheat growers were heading for very serious trouble. This information was given in in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard). 
I will quote what the Minister said. He said: 
Anybody  who has been associated with the expansion thai has taken place in the wheat industry in the past 5 years must be well aware that the wheat growers were heading for very serious trouble . . . 
As I said, and I will repeat it, the Minister knew 5 years ago that the industry was heading for trouble, because he was associated with the expansion. That is what I said, and Hansard will show it. I am amazed that the Minister had the temerity to make such a statement, because it was only last year that we in this Parliament received the first inkling of the serious trouble that the wheat industry was in. when the Government appealed to wheat producers to reduce production. Why did the Government not give them notice 5 years ago to reduce production? Why did the Government not take positive action and initiate legislation, complementary to State, legislation if necessary, to avert these tremendous problems in the wheat industry. Look at the members of the Country Party. They could not care less about the plight of the small wheat grower. This is very well known. As 1 said before, it was only last year that the Government admitted that the wheat industry was in trouble. The Government is guilty of gross neglect not only of the wheat growers of Australia but of the taxpayers also for not informing us 5 years ago of this serious crisis towards which the wheat industry was heading. 
The Government's refusal to implement the reserve wool price programme is an example of its refusing to take the initiative. Here we have a glaring anomaly. The Australian Wool Industry Conference, the so-called parliament of the wool industry, recommended a reserve price plan, but because powerful people in the wool industry objected to it the Government would not take the initiative and introduce it. The plan was put to a referendum and rejected. By contrast, look at the lifting of the embargo on the export of merino breeding stock. That was a different proposition. The Wool Industry Conference recommended that the embargo be lifted, and the Government raced in to lift it. But when an objection was raised, what happened? The Government put its tail between its legs again and did nothing until after the election. This is the Government which is supposed to give leadership to the primary industries. 
The Government's dismal record in refusing to implement a positive policy to minimise the recurring devastation of drought is just one more example of leadership weakness. Its policy is simple. It hopes - and it might be right - that there will never be another drought. But what sort of policy is this? lt says that if there is another drought it will wait until the drought reaches devastating proportions and it will then give the primary producers concessional rebates for fodder transport, etc. This is the extent of the initiative taken by the Government with respect to one of the most important problems of this country. It is over 3 years now since we heard of the great plight of the dairy industry when the farmers asked for the reconstruction of the industry. What has this Government done? Every time a question is asked inside this Parliament or a question is asked outside the Parliament by producer organisations, the Federal Government blames the States. This is another example of passing the buck. While these stalling tactics continue the Treasury prospers, because in the last 2 years there have been allocations, admittedly only Sim, for the implementation of a scheme for the reconstruction of the dairy industry, but of course nothing has been spent. 
Let me now deal with an industry in which there are not many votes. I refer to the cotton industry. Here we see the Government taking the initiative. There are not many votes in the industry, but in terms of the number of people in it it is just as important as any other primary industry. What has the Government done in this industry? It has ruthlessly stated that it will take away the cotton bounty in developing areas. W t a contrast! Here it does give leadership - leadership that is completely unjust. Let me turn to the sugar industry. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  should be concerned about this industry, because this year there are all the earmarks of a very large surplus of sugar production in many of the major producing areas of Queensland. But what is the Government going to do? Is it to wait until the crushing has almost finished and then say that the mills cannot take any more cane because the quota under the International Sugar Agreement is only approximately 1 million tons, or will it implement some positive programme and show some initiative to stop the destruction of cane in some areas where the harvesting cannot be put off? 
Under the International Sugar Agreement there is some provision for storage arrangements, but we want to see some leadership shown by the Government to the growers, particularly those in the sugar areas of the north where we will have very large surpluses of production. The Government's approach to the problems of the primary industries seems always to crystallise in one thought - subsidies. 1 give the Minister credit because he is not thinking in terms of subsidies for the dairy industry. The Opposition has stated time and time again that this is one industry that needs reconstruction. But in the wool industry and in the wheat industry - if it gets this way - subsidies will have to be considered very seriously, because it Ls useless to continue payment of subsidies to an industry, whether it be a primary or secondary industry, if we are to have increased surpluses which cannot be disposed of. particularly on the export market. 
The Government's lack of leadership in primary industry, however, is in somewhat stark contrast to its attitude on tariffs. 
There do not seem to be any delays in granting tariffs to secondary industries, particularly to some of the more uneconomic secondary industries. But when it comes to giving assistance and leadership to some of the primary industries which are in serious trouble we have these interminable delays. In the dairy industry there has been a delay of 3 years, and in the wool industry it is 4 or 5 years since the AWIC brought down its recommendation for a reserve price programme. 
The Minister says that they voted it out, but why not give the merino producers an opportunity to vote on the lifting of the embargo on the export of merino rams? Then we saw a wonderful exposition of the new policy of the Country Party after a special meeting of its parliamentary members here some weeks ago. The headlines throughout Australia reported that the Country Party would get tough to help the farmers. One newspaper said: 
The Australian Country Party will adopt a 'get tough' attitude in an attempt to get governmental approval for policies designed to ameliorate the plight of primary producers. 
In the parliamentary session to begin on March 3, it will apply 'a new measure of determination and boldness in following measures of support' for primary producers. 
The Country Party has been in power in this nation for 20 years. It has been responsible for the formulation of every policy on primary industry. Is it any wonder that the economic position of primary producers today in real terms is probably at its lowest ebb? But the Country Party has said it will get tough. Let it get tough. Let it introduce some legislation into the Parliament. If we in the Opposition think that any Country Party proposals will benefit the primary producers we will support them. But what do the members of the Country Party do? They race round the electorates of Australia criticising the Liberal Party, but look at them when they come into the Parliament. They are meek and mild like defeathered cockatoos. Is this the sort of attempt they will make to get tough? 
The Country Party, with its numbers here, now has a chance to get tough. I repeat, if the Opposition thinks that any proposals of the Country Party will give a fair deal to Australia we will support them. Let the Country Party introduce some Bills and see what happens. But will they introduce them? Of course they will not. This is the new policy of the Country Party. It will be the same policy that has been witnessed in this House every year for the last 20 years. Unless the Minister for Primary Industry gives leadership to primary industry it will go down further. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 12.40 to 2.15 p.m. 
The principal purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligations, under the provisions of the Wheat Stabilisation Act, as guarantor of loans made through the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia to the Australian Wheat Board. These loans, of course, have been made as first advance payments to cover particular expenses. Because the Bill is restricted in its scope it is not therefore possible to debate the principal problems of the wheat industry. It is not possible to have a look at some of the remedies which may afford a practicable solution to these problems. It is therefore necessary to confine one's remarks to the purpose of the Bill. 
Under the Wheat Stabilisation Acts, as they have been implemented right from the first Act at the end of the last War, there has been provision for the Commonwealth Government to be the guarantor of loans made available to the Wheat Board through the Reserve Bank, in the event of the wheat industry not being able to repay those moneys to the Reserve Bank by the specified time, which is 31st March of a particular year. Under the charter of the Reserve Bank these types of loans cannot be extended over the period of 1 2 months. Therefore it is quite clear that the Reserve Bank has no alternative but to lend the money to the industry. It is only right that the Government, which has forced the Bank to lend money to the industry with no say in the matter, should act as guarantor. This is what has happened. 
For the first time in 20 years this issue has arisen. The wheat industry is unable to repay the total advances for the 1968-69 season, for the first time since stabilisation has been enacted. The key to the problem lies in the Treasurer's second reading speech in which he says that the Board's income from sales of wheat will be insufficient to enable it to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. The sales of wheat for the 1968-69 season have been insufficient to repay the loan. Therefore the Government comes in as a guarantor. It is important that we should look at the cause of this problem, because confronting the Parliament today is a Bill upon which we have to vote to allow the Act to be enforced and for the Commonwealth to become the guarantor. But the same provision may apply this time next year or the following year within the provisions of the Wheat Stabilisation Act. 
Honourable members may ask: Why are we in this position today? It is obvious that there has been considerable bungling and a lack of leadership. It is obvious that the Government has failed to warn the wheat growers, the public and the taxpayers in sufficient time of the crisis that has arisen. At least 5 years ago the Treasury gave a warning that we were heading for trouble in the wheat industry. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  stated in answer to a question last week that anybody who has been associated with the expansion that has taken place in the wheat industry in the last 5 years must be well aware thai wheat growers were heading for very serious trouble unless they expanded their market outlets. In other words, this knowledge was available, but because it was not passed on to the wheat industry and to the people of Australia we have reached the present position. The Minister gave an estimate with respect to the 1968-69 wheat harvest of deliveries of 435 million bushels which involved the Reserve Bank covering the first advance and expenses of S509m. That estimate was sadly wrong. As we know, the actual deliveries were in excess of 500 million bushels, and the loan from the Reserve Bank to the growers had to be increased. Provision was made for a loan of up to S634m, which is very big money. 
It was obvious to everybody, to the industry and to the Government, that last year there would be large sums of money unrepaid in respect of the 1968-69 harvest. The Government then made another advance of $440m. Looking at it in perspective now, in March 1970, we see a total of $440m as the first advance for last year's crop and approximately $250m in unsold wheat or the equivalent still on hand. This amounts to a loan of from $650m to $700m having been made. The disturbing thing of which Parliament must take note is the very serious economic problem of the consequence of making large advances to anyone when that money has been spent and the product for which it has been advanced has not been sold. This is the very serious problem with which we are faced now and with which we will be faced this time next year. In anybody's logic it is wrong economically to provide large loans or finance for anything that is difficult. The money has been spent but the wheat which it represents has not been sold. There will be no further advances from the 1968 pool until approximately 1971 because under this legislation - and it is right - first priority must be given to the repayment of the guarantee. 
The third stage in the game was reached with the foreshadowing by the Minister for Primary Industry of a further advance. For the reduced quota of 318 million bushels a further loan has been foreshadowed of $407m. So we have a drawing right of up to S634m - I think the actual figure drawn was $600m- followed by $440m and followed now, at the end of the year, by $407m. This is very big loan money considering that it is being injected into the economy and that large proportions of the wheat are unsaleable. 
These are the problems which we have to face. Under the legislation as it is here today the Opposition takes the view that it has no alternative whatsoever but to support the Bill, because the principle it embodies is written in the Wheat Stabilisation Act, which the Opposition believes in, and it is the whole essence of orderly marketing, which again the Opposition believes in. The Opposition gives warning that if this state of affairs arises next year very serious consideration must be given to it. The Government has now been warned about what can happen by being a guarantor for large proportions of wheat that cannot be sold at this point of time. This is an important point. I made it very clear why the Opposition supports the guarantee under the provisions of the Wheat Stabilisation Act. This Parliament has no alternative but to support it because the Reserve Bank has to make this loan within the province of section 57. That does not mean that this commits the Government and the people of Australia to guaranteeing loans all the time, depending on government or industry decisions. This is the crux of the problem. 
In the cold business world, would the Reserve Bank give a blank cheque for advances up to $634m, then when $250m of this was still outstanding give another $440m and, without knowing what would happen, another $407m at the end of the year? That is the very dangerous situation in which we could find ourselves. Very large amounts of money are involved. 
As I said before, we have no alternative to accepting the Bill. If the Parliament refused to allow the Government to be a guarantor there would be chaos in the industry. Wheat growers throughout Australia would become bankrupt. They would have to mortgage their farms to repay the loan if the Bank exercised its right to foreclose. Businesses in small and large wheat towns would become bankrupt. The point is that we have no alternative to going along with the Bill at this time. The criticism that the Opposition levies at the Government is that it did not face up to its responsibilities at least S years ago when the Treasury publicly, together with international agencies, warned that the wheat industry was heading for a crisis. This view was reinforced by the Minister for Primary Industry last Tuesday when he admitted that anybody who knew of the expansion in the industry would realise that we will have to face a very serious problem. Plans should have been made when the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill was introduced into the Parliament 2 years ago to solve the problem, but it was not until April of last year that any official statement was made about the crisis in the wheat industry. Up to that time the growers had been increasing production. 
The burning question that confronts the Parliament is this: How much of last season's crop will have to be guaranteed as unsaleable wheat at March of next year? The next question is: How much of next season's crop, for which $407m is being provided will be unsaleable? We must give very serious consideration to these questions. What will happen in the future? Because of the terms of the Bill we cannot explore such matters now. We can make only passing references to the major problems of the wheat industry. However, as we are dealing with the repayment of the loan, it is relevant to discuss the action taken by the Government to reduce production. Reduced production, of course, will mean a lowering of the total amount of the first advance payments and the indebtedness of the Commonwealth as guarantor. The Government has used the quota system. This in my opinion and in the opinion of thinking people is not only unjust but is also inequitable. A grower's average quota will be reduced by 20% or 30%. This will lead to an inefficient use of resources. However, I cannot delve into that matter now. It will also penalise the small grower, and we are very concerned about this. A person may have been an efficient grower for years, producing, say, 10,000 bushels. A reduction in his quota will place him in a very serious financial position. This is all relevant to the repayment of the loan. It is quite inequitable for the same percentage reduction to be applied to the large wheat grower with, say 100,000 bushels and to the person growing, say, 7,000 bushels. There is no economic justice in this and no justice in terms of logic, equity or the efficient use of resources. 
One assertion, which has been repeated time and time again, is erroneous and I want to clear it up. It is said that the wheat grower is being heavily subsidised by the taxpayer. I am not speaking of the future; this claim may well be true in the future. A reduction of 1 cent in the minimum price under the International Grains Arrangement will, over the 5-year period, mean that the taxpayers will have to pay SI Om to meet the guaranteed figure under the stabilisation scheme. A reduction of 20% will make the figure S200m, and this is very big money. That is the problem which worries me. The Minister for Primary Industry has admitted in speeches he has made that big money could be involved in the future, depending on the price under the International Grains Arrangement. Up to this time it has been unfair to say that the wheat grower has been subsidised. The latest official figures contained in a survey made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics show quite clearly that in the 3 years of the survey, the actual subsidy averaged only S3 22 a farm. This works out at approximately 3i cent"! n bushel. That is the amount of the subsidy according to the official figures of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
Let us look at the income position for wheat growers after the Second World War. These are not my figures; they are the figures of agricultural economists, such as  Mr D.  H. McKay, formerly Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. They show that the wheat industry is in credit up to the present by about $400m. Even taking into account the amount that the taxpayers have had to pay, the wheat industry is still on the credit side. This should always be kept in mind when people criticise the wheat industry. The reason for this is that in the post-war years the world price of wheat was considerably higher than the domestic price. The position then was the reverse of the position today. If wheal producers had been able to sell all their wheat at the world price they would have been very much better off than they were. The difference has been calculated as about $400m to the credit of the wheat industry. 
This debate is limited and it is not possible to discuss at length the problems of the wheat industry. I understand from the programme of legislation that we will be able to do this later when we debate a Bill dealing with wheat stabilisation. The Bill now before us is confined to finance. The Opposition supports the Bill because it has no alternative. This is the first time for 20 years that provisions such as these have been implemented. This is because section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act limits such loans as these to 1 2 months. We give notice that this position will not necessarily apply at this time next year. Large sums of money are involved and the Government must act, in the interests of the economy, to put its house in order within the next 12 months. The figures are astronomical. The outstanding  amount  is  $250m.  In addition the first advance is $440m and then on top of that will be $407m at the end of the year. The amounts depend on the Government's ability to sell the excess wheat. 
The best advice I can get, and it seems to be the best advice that the Government can get, is that there is no bright light ahead for the sale of wheat on the international market. The very large importing countries are becoming more and more self sufficient, due to government policies and technology, and we are in fact faced with a very real problem, not only because of the direct effect on the wheat industry but because of the indirect effect on the wool industry. There is one thing we must always remember: If we allow a stabilisation price for the wheat industry this has a very direct consequence on the wool industry. I say that because the majority of wheat produced in Australia is produced in rotation or in conjunction with wool. So the two industries are complementary or supplementary. 
With that warning about the dangers of making advances and of guaranteeing advances for a commodity which we have not sold - it will be a long time, up to 15 months according to what the Treasurer said, before that wheat will be sold - and with the snowballing effects of last season and this season, we are heading for a very serious problem so far as the finances of the wheat industry are concerned. 

 - Mr 


 Chairman, in dealing with the Bill there are certain questions which still remain unanswered. One of the most important questions that has remained unanswered concerns the rate of interest. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his second reading speech- 
What is the answer? 
He did not say that at all. He said that there would be no change. It is important to know what is the specific rate of interest apart from the preferential rate of interest under the rural credits scheme. The Treasurer said that the rate charged will be the same as the rate charged for Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve iBank on the date the loan is made. I assume that means on the date the loan is made by the Rural Credits Department  to  the Australian Wheat Board. What the Opposition wants to know is: What is the specific rate of interest? 
The Minister for the Interior will have his chance to tell us a little more. Under what conditions will it be a diminishing balance? Does this also apply to a particular rate as distinct from a preferential rate of interest - which is characteristic of many loans - as administered by the Rural Credits Department? This is important to the wheat growers all over Australia, because if one takes this 5% - in terms of the total amount - which is supposed to be available, one finds that this is a pretty big figure. It is a figure which is again being loaded on to the wheat producer by the Government. 
I am surprised that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  is not here. It might seem strange to him that there are wheat growers in my electorate. Perhaps he has never heard of the central highlands where the best wheat in Australia is produced, with a protein content of above 14% on the average - when it rains, of course. It is very important for all of us to know just what are the terms and conditions. I ask the Minister for the Interior, who is at the table: Why does the Treasurer not spell it out? I might say that I agree with a lot of the statements made by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey).  The Minister for the Interior is here on what is considered to be and what is represented as being a very important Bill with respect to the wheat industry. I would like to express the concern of the Opposition and, I hope, the concern of other honourable members at the contempt which has been shown for this Parliament when, on an important financial Bill involving S300m, the Minister for the Interior is the responsible Minister to answer the questions or debate the issue on behalf of the Treasurer. All we heard was the Treasurer reading like a parrot something prepared for him by Treasury officials. If the Treasurer was doing the job correctly and had the wheat industry at heart he would be here in this Parliament debating and justifying the actions of the Government. 1 have no personal criticism of the Minister for the Interior and I do not want him to misunderstand me in that respect. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  should have been here. I hope that in the future when the Government is debating important legislation in the second reading stage and in Committee, the responsible Minister will be sitting at the table. The absence of the Treasurer shows the contempt  if  the Liberal Party for the wheat growers ox Australia. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior to elicit, on behalf of the Treasurer, the terms and conditions as determined by the Treasurer. The word 'conditions' means something. It does not just mean terms, but includes the rate of interest. There is no need to bother about the fine print of the Bill. Every wheat grower wants to know what are the terms and conditions. This is not just a Reserve Bank loan; it is the guarantee of the Government under the terms and conditions laid down by the Treasurer. Surely we are entitled to know the specific terms and conditions, by way of an attachment or schedule if necessary. It is no good a Minister getting up and saying it is 5%. I want to know what are the terms and, more importantly, what are the conditions for the wheat grower and the Australian Wheat Board. 
I am amazed at the statement of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch).  This matter must be cleared up now. 
I do not have to ask for leave. The honourable member does not know the rules of debate. He is eating away as though he were in a cafe. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member for Dawson will address the chair. 
One point that has to be cleared up is the rate of interest. The Minister said that the rate of interest at present is 5%. He added: 'I make no pre-, diction about the forward developments of the rate of interest*. I was under the distinct impression that the rate of interest as laid down by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his second reading speech would not be altered. The words of the Treasurer were: 
It is intended- 
Intended' means something in the future:  that the rate of interest on the loan by the Commonwealth will be the same- 
That is,  5%:  as the rate charged for Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on the date the loan is made. 
Of course it is. It is 5%. But the Minister said that he makes no prediction as to what it may be in the future. Why does the Minister not say that it will be 5%? That is what we want to know. Will it be 5% or will it not be 5% in the future? This is the important point and 1 think there is only one answer to the question. 
You usually do not know what goes on here. If you did you would not comment. This is a simple question. If it is 5% now, will it continue to be 5% for the remainder of the term of the loan? It is not satisfactory to have the Treasurer say that it will be the same and to have the Minister assisting him say that it is the same now but he will not make a prediction as to the rate of interest in the future. It is important that the Treasurer answer this simple question. Having heard the answer given by the Treasurer to the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  it was my understanding that the rate of interest would not change. Although the wheat industry was not specifically mentioned, the answer could be interpreted as relating to the wheat industry. The rate of interest is of tremendous importance in calculating the overall figure. 
I repeat the specific question to the Minister assisting the Treasurer. It is: Will the rate of interest of 5% remain unchanged for the duration of the loan? 
We have now witnessed-- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That  the question be now put. 
I wish to refer tonight to an event which happened approximately  7  weeks ago and which devastated a part of my electorate.  1.  refer to cyclone Ada. Despite the seriousness of the faults in communications and the weather warning techniques which were so glaringly exposed by the recent cyclone Ada disaster, the Government appears to have done nothing to rectify these faults.  1  remind the Government that we are still in the cyclone season in the north. It would appear that the Government's complacency about cyclones is similar to its complacency about floods, fires and drought. Ils failure after  20  years in office to implement any constructive semblance of a plan to minimise the effects of national disasters is a disgrace. It would seem that the Government takes the view that cyclones may never occur again in settled areas of the north. This is a defeatist attitude, because if it adopts that policy it must argue that there is no real need for any preparatory work. 
I want to deal with two of the most glaring faults which were exposed by the cyclone. I am speaking in all sincerity and seriousness to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  because I feel deeply disturbed about these events. One of the most glaring faults revealed was the apparent inability of the Bureau of Meteorology to forecast with any degree of accuracy the intensity or wind velocity of the cyclone. I want to impress upon the Minister that this is quite distinct from giving a warning that a cyclone is approaching. I am not alleging a lack of warning, and I have never alleged that. There was adequate warning that a cyclone was in the area. My argument is that the Bureau is not able to forecast wind velocity or pressure. My second point is that there are almost criminal delays in providing the public with urgently required weather forecasts during an emergency. 
I am referring to the delays in getting the message across to the public. As I will repeat later, this is not the fault of the Bureau; it is the fault of the communications set-up. While the local radio stations were informing the people that the cyclone was small - a flea bite - and not dangerous and that the winds were averaging between only 40 and 50 miles an hour, the cyclone was in fact smashing and devastating island resorts and coastal areas with winds approximating 150 miles an hour. The radio stations were being given inaccurate information - information hopelessly out of date; 6 or 7 hours out of date. Six hours after the cyclone had demolished the buildings on Hayman Island the local radio stations were still forecasting winds of 40 to 50 miles an hour. This false information was a major contributing factor in the tragic death of people, particularly those who took their small boats out to sea. If these men had known the violence of this cyclone they would have beached their boats. I personally know some of the men who were killed. I have taken it on myself to take a very keen interest in, to the extent of almost looking after, one family which lost its breadwinner because he took a boat to sea. It is a very sad business because the mother of the family is a Tahitian who can hardly speak English and she has four little children to look after.  Her  husband's body has never been found. 
The technicians at the Bureau of Meteorology in the area did the best job they could during cyclone Ada. I have no criticism of the technicians themselves; my criticism is of the system of red tape, of the Government bungling and of the mismanagement of communications. The best equipment was not available in the area and this deficiency must be rectified immediately. I believe - I hope that the Minister for the Interior will assure me on this aspect - that the Bureau should be immediately provided with an aircraft which is equipped to measure accurately the velocity and pressure of cyclones threatening Australia. I have seen these aircraft used in southern parts of the United States of America where tornados are prevalent. I know that the Bureau of Meteorology wants one of these aircraft because it is the only way, other than the use of ships, to gauge accurately the force of a cyclone. 
The Government's policy in respect to the operation of its post offices must be reviewed. The closing of the telegraph stations on a Saturday afternoon and a Sunday in an area which was in a state of emergency was an act of irresponsibility. It accentuated many of the delays. I believe that radio links are necessary in the closely settled areas which are susceptible to cyclones. As happened in this instance, telephone lines can be destroyed. Radio links must also be established to allow data on river heights, floods and so on to be quickly disseminated. As was found in this cyclone, radio is the only safe way of getting communications through. The civil defence procedures and the communications system should be tightened up. An aircraft of the type I have referred to would not cost a lot of money. It is totally unacceptable to me for the Government to argue that it cannot afford such an aircraft. It maintains a large fleet of aircraft in the VIP Flight. The Department of Civil Aviation has a fleet of aircraft. These aircraft, as well as the aircraft of the RAAF, could be used in an emergency. The Government can afford to purchase a specially equipped aircraft of the type I have mentioned. 
The most serious aspect is the bureaucratic approach and the insistence on red tape procedures being followed. It has to stop. 1 am critical of the whole system. The Bureau of Meteorology at, for example, Mackay cannot officially supply information in regard to its weather forecasts. Instead, it has to send the information down to the Brisbane office where it is analysed and then Brisbane sends it back to Mackay. With the telegraph stations closed on Saturday afternoon and Sunday and the telephone lines down, delays of up to 6 and 7 hours occurred. After the islands in the region and Airlie Beach had been demolished and people had been killed, the local radio station was still broadcasting that there would be winds of 40 to 50 "miles an hour. During an emergency the local radio and television stations and the Press should be immediately linked with the local Bureau of Meteorology so that they can flash the weather forecasts to the people straight away. 1 also think that there should be more naval patrol vessels in the area. But for the boats owned by the proprietors of the tourist resorts and the fortuitous circumstances of the 'Clutha Oceanic', being in the area, there would have been more fatalities. 
lt is a very serious matter,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but it would appear as though some honourable members do not think so. People were killed in this cyclone. The destruction that has been caused is something which words are totally inadequate to describe. I was in a cyclone in the Gulf of Carpentaria just after the war and I never ever want to see one again. I was only 20 miles from cyclone Ada. I was in it as far as the rain, floods and wind were concerned but not in the middle of it as far as the intensity was concerned. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  was unfortunately in the middle of the cyclone at South Mole Island. The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  came up on behalf of the Prime Minister to investigate it. I hope that the Minister will give us some indication of- 
I direct to the Minister for Trade and Industry a question about a series of articles published in the Financial Review' above the name of 'A Modest Member of Parliament'. Has the Minister noticed that the author of the article is opposed to tariffs and to primary industries? Has he noticed also that the articles are in effect a direct attack on the policies of the Australian Country Party and the fundamental policies of the Labor Party? As my investigations have shown that this modest member of Parliament is not a member of the Labor Party and as I assume he is not a member of the Country Party, does the Minister know his identity? 
 I would like to say a few words on this subject. I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  It would seem that there has been a glaring gap in Australian law with respect to an emergency such as has arisen and for that reason the Opposition supports the Government in putting this Bill through all stages as quickly as possible. However the Opposition cannot help but wonder at the delay that has occurred from 3rd March, when the accident took place, to the present. We wonder what would have happened if the tanker had had an accident in the Whitsunday Passage - a passage which is used extensively by heavy shipping - or near the Great Barrier Reef. Would we have waited all this time before taking action? 
I would have thought that under the defence power in the Constitution the 
Government would have some right to act with respect to an emergency such as this. It is not just a question of pollution; it is a question of causing danger to installations and shipping lanes, let alone the biological dangers to the Reef itself. As the honourable member for Newcastle said, serious thought has to be given to banning at all time the passage of tankers, which are getting bigger and bigger, through the Barrier Reef channels, particularly as a lot of these channels are still uncharted and, as is well known, the bottom of the sea bed moves to some degree with the coral growth. After a cyclone in an area it is always noticeable that the sea bed of. many places are affected, particularly those around islands and the submerged reefs. 
I support the honourable member for Newcastle and ask that the Government treat this matter as serious and that every consideration be given to bringing forward every possible piece of legislation which will allow the government of the day to act, and act fast, in the interests of Australia. If this ship had been caught, for example in a cyclone in the Whitsunday Passage or a passage in the Barrier Reef, what would have happened? If this legislation is the answer, T would have hoped that it would have been introduced before this. I would hope that the Government would act first and worry about legislation later, if there had been an emergency in the Burrier Reef itself. 
I will present to the honourable member for Hume the true facts relating to primary industry. Firstly I will refer to the dairy industry. Despite the importance of the reconstruction scheme for the dairy industry we find that the Government has refused to allow any debate on the subject. Despite the serious financial position of that industry we find that the last time that the Government initiated a debate on it - and it is a most important industry - was on 5th April 1967. It is quite obvious,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that honourable members representing the Australian Country Party are not listening to this debate. The dairy industry was debated in this Parliament on 5th April 1967 when the Government introduced legislation relating to the dairy industry stabilisation scheme. The Government introduced legislation and therefore was forced to debate the industry. That happened approximately 3 years ago, when the Government announced its grandiose scheme to reconstruct and rehabilitate the dairy industry. The Government consistently refused to debate this subject in the Parliament in 1967 and 1968 despite repeated questions about it. 
On 20th May 1969 the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  paid us the courtesy of making a ministerial statement in the House in which he presented the lat est details of the dairy industry reconstruction scheme. But were either members of the opposition or back benchers on the Government side allowed to debate the subject in the Parliament? No. And this was despite promises made by the former Leader of the House, the former Minister for Air, who informed us on 2 occasions that the matter certainly would be brought on for debate. I think that the dairy industry reconstruction scheme was mentioned 3 times on the 'Daily Programme' for the House of Representatives but debate on this important proposal was never permitted. As I said earlier, the last time that the Government initiated a debate in this Parliament on the dairy industry was on 5th April 1967. 
I now turn to the wool industry. The Minister for Labour and National Service told us that the wool industry was debated in the Parliament following a ministerial statement on the export of merino rams. All honourable members know what a farce that debate turned out to be. The last time that the Government initiated a debate in this Parliament on the wool industry was on 4th May 1967. At that time it was initiated by the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  the occasion being the debate on the Wool Industry Bill. That was the last time that the Government initiated a debate on the wool industry. Certainly it initiated a debate in May 1969 on the export of merino rams, but what happened? When the matter was dealt with in the Senate the Government was defeated. Because it was an election year and tremendous opposition against the proposal was being built up throughout Australia, the Government forgot all about it until after the election. The breeders got together in numbers and exerted pressure on the Government. Then the Minister for Primary Industry, in a back door manner, suddenly issued a statement saying that the Government would permit merinos to be exported following the partial lifting of the merino ram export ban. However, so far no merinos have been exported. 
There still has not been a continuation of that debate in this House despite the events and actions which have taken place since the Government suffered defeat in the Senate and since it decided to lift the ban. Surely there should be a ministeri1 statement in- this chamber so that wc can debate the consequences of the Senate rejection of the Government's decision to lift the embargo. 
It is recognised also that the poultry industry is in serious financial trouble but the last time that a debate took place in this Parliament on that subject was on 22nd September 1966, nearly 4 years ago. That was the last time that the Government initiated such a debate despite the fact that its supporters who have poultry farmers in their electorates know full well the crisis being engendered in that industry. We know that the Australian Agricultural Council rejected a comprehensive stabilisation plan but still there has been no statement here on the poultry industry. 
I have dealt with some of the major industries and now will refer to the dried vine fruits industry. A statement on this subject was made on 10th September 1969. It has never been debated. The matter has not been brought forward during the life of this new Parliament. We know also that the apple industry is in a serious financial condition but the last time it was debated in this Parliament, on the initiative of the Government, was on 6th November 1968 when we dealt with the Apple and Pear Export Charges Bill. 
That is the record of this Government. If we look at all those industries - wool, dairying, wheat, poultry, dried vine fruits and apples) - we find the same sorry story. We just cannot get this Government to initiate debates on those subjects despite the seriousness of the problems facing primary industries. If we take for an example the wheat industry, honourable members will know that it was one of the difficult problems in this Parliament last year to get a debate on that industry. 
When was that? 
The Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill was debated more than 2 years ago. After that Bill this crisis developed in the wheat industry. Discussion on this matter has taken place outside of this Parliament. Every time the Minister for Primary Industry was asked to make a statement that we could debate no statement was forthcoming. The only way that we could debate wheat quotas and the crisis in the industry was by taking the opportunity afforded by Grievance Day. lt is significant that we have had no debate this year on the wheat industry crisis itself. We had the Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill but the  Speaker  of the House made it very clear that we could not discuss matters outside the provisions df the measure itself. We were not allowed to. discuss quotas or the serious problems within the wheat industry although the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  was able to transgress and rove a little wider. He made very clear what he thought of the Minister for Primary Industry and the Government with respect to the crisis in the wheat industry. 
One would think that the Country Party would give some leadership in matters affecting primary industry. Is the Country Party not aware of the criticism it is getting throughout Australia with respect to leadership? Is it not aware that it has been asked by farmers and farmers organisations to give some leadership, to take some new positive action in inculcating some new ideas and some new thoughts? As I said last week, the Government acts like some ventriloquist's dummy; it waits all the time until the industry organisations put forward a proposal. But when they do so the Government does not necessarily act on it. We have had the great fiasco of the reserve price plan. What happened at the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the socalled parliament of the wool industry? This organisation met and talked at tremendous length and made its momentous decision. What did the Government do? It took a referendum and the parliament of the wool industry was defeated. That was the last we heard of the reserve price plan. Since that time the financial position of the wool industry has deteriorated further and further. It is important that the Government give some leadership on these cases. 
Sugar is another great industry. It is true that there have been some lengthy debates on the sugar industry in the Parliament, but only because a considerable volume of legislation has been enacted with respect to the industry. The International Sugar 
Agreement, the Commonwealth-Queensland Sugar Agreement and the various supplementary agreements and ministerial statements relating to the domestic price of sugar provided opportunities for. debate but they were enforced occasions. This industry is now approaching also a very serious problem. We can now add the sugar industry to the wool, beef, poultry and dairy industries because once again we shall be faced with a serious problem of over supply. I refer to the problem of a possible tremendous surplus though it will not be due to the fault of the sugar grower who has played the game and kept his acreage within the confines of his assignment. Because the grower has been blessed with good weather for once it looks like being one of the best seasons ever. 
In my own area of Mackay we look like having a surplus of about .1 million tons of cane. But this is a major problem for the whole of Australia because sugar is just as important in northern New South Wales as it is to my area in northern Queensland. What is the Government going to do about the tremendous surplus which could come at the end of the year? The Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has advised all cane growers to resign themselves to the inevitability of acquisition being restricted to peaks only. In other words, every ton of excess sugar above peaks can be destroyed as far as the Queensland Premier is concerned. The expression of this sort of pessimistic view is simply the voice of the Sugar Board and the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd which take the worst possible view of this problem. But why is not the Government vitally concerned with this problem because it was the Government of Australia that negotiated the International Sugar Agreement? Why has the Government not taken some leadership and told the House what it intends to do or what it is planning to do at the end of the year with respect to this surplus? 
Any decision which the Queensland Government, the CSR or the Australian Sugar Board takes that would lead to the large scale destruction of cane will be opposed at the highest possible political level. If the Commonwealth Government were to turn a blind eye to this problem and in fact endorsed the attitude of the 
Queensland Government or the Australian Sugar Board by allowing large surpluses of cane to be destroyed - to be ploughed in at the end of this year - the Opposition would have no hesitation in seeing that this matter was raised in the United Nations because this destruction of food would infringe the basic rights and principles of every civilised nation. The deliberate destruction of food by government action is something to be deplored. 
It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Cowper does not know even the basic elements of the International Sugar Agreement. The Agreement, in case the honourable member does not know, allows for a maximum storage capacity of 20% of the previous year's total production, including excess sugar which means that something like 450,000 tons of excess sugar can be stored under maximum stocks under the provisions of the International Sugar Agreement which this Government elected under the alternative provisions relating to this particular clause. Therefore, while it is within the permissible rights of the Australian Government to allow for stocks up to 450,000 tons, there is no case for the destruction of sugar in Australia. 
What we want is for the honourable member for Cowper to get up in this Parliament and give his views on this matter. But how can he do so, unless he himself initiates an urgency debate because his own leader, the Leader of the House, refuses time and time again to initiate a debate on the sugar industry? Something has to be done now with respect to sugar surpluses. The Government should be working out a plan whereby it can acquire this excess sugar and not infringe after the next year the terms of the International Sugar Agreement. This can be done by perhaps a system of credits for mill areas because no-one knows what the next season will bring. The areas that have surpluses of sugar today are the areas which are highly susceptible to drought. The Bundaberg district, for example, was ravaged by drought last year. This year it will be blessed with a reasonably good season. The Mackay-Burdekin district, the greatest concentration of cane growing in Australia, has a good season. 
But who knows what the position will be next year? Therefore, it is essential that methods be worked out whereby the Government will be able to acquire these stocks. 
What we want in the Parliament is a debate on these matters. Almost every day we read in the newspapers of the crisis and the unrest in the wool industry. It is a disgrace that it has been 3 years since we have had a wool debate in this Parliament. The ex-Minister for Primary Industry initiated that debate. I have said in this Parliament before that when the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  was Minister for Primary Industry this Parliament had debates on wool. He was not frightened to get up and initiate a debate in the Parliament. I would say, with all credit to him, that perhaps what will go down against his name will be the reserve price plan. The Parliament and the Cabinet should have backed him by going ahead and enacting the legislation. The referendum was a negative step. The Government is not consistent. On the one hand it argues that the Australian Wool Industry Council, the parliament of the wool industry, makes these decisions. Why does the Government not back it? It did so with the merino embargo for a while but it did not do so when it came to a decision on the all important wool price. 
Both the Parliament and the Australian primary producers have been treated with the utmost contempt by the Australian Government, because despite the growing financial crisis in the primary industries the Government refuses to exercise even the slightest semblance of leadership. All the industries that I have mentioned - wool, wheat, dairy and poultry - are in serious trouble. The export beef industry in northern Australia is walking an economic tightrope. Mention was made here today in questions and in the answers given by the Minister for Primary Industry that some alleviation has been given to the beef producers in the Northern Territory and in the Kimberleys in the first 10 weeks of the season under the diversification plan. I want to know what has happened to the producers in north Queensland. It is well known that some juggling has been going on in the meatworks in the Kimberleys. The Katherine meatworks deserves consideration: there is no question about that. But what is the propriety of giving alleviation to the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys and not to Cape York Peninsula or the Gulf of Carpentaria? There is absolutely no propriety whatsoever. lt is all right for Victoria and other States to bemoan the fact that there has been alleviation, but let it be remembered that until 1958 the amount of beef exported from Victoria was virtually nil. It was not until the advent of the American market that the beef position changed drastically in Australia. We saw great increases in beef production in Victoria. The Minister should be initiating a debate in the Parliament on beef diversification. The basic differences in the diversification scheme between the north and south of Australia is that there are no alternative means of production in the north. Beef is produced, and that is all. The majority of beef producers in northern Australia are exclusively beef producers; they have no alternative. They are not producing beef complementary to wool or fat lamb production as in the south. It is beef and beef only. Their market is the export market. They are walking an economic tightrope. 
The Government always adopts the negative policy of wait and see. Since 1946 we have seen 4 or 5 of the worse droughts ever witnessed in the north and one of the worst droughts that has ever been witnessed in southern Australia. But is there any plan to defeat or minimise the effects of drought? The Government's policy is to wait and see what happens and hope that somebody with a magic wand will make it rain. Is this the action of a responsible Government? As I have said before, the Government's contemptuous disregard for the problems of primary industry has been clearly illustrated by its deplorable record in this Parliament over a number of years, in the instances that I mentioned with respect to initiating debates. Let us hope that we will see some semblance of leadership for primary industry, because in general the primary industries today have never been worse off in real, economic terms since the depression. It is all right to say, as some people have said, that there is no such thing as a price cost squeeze, because productivity increases are greater than the increase in costs. The facts of the matter are that important sectors of all primary industries producing for the export market are in serious trouble because productivity is now lagging behind the rate of increases in costs particularly on many of the small properties. 
On some properties it is physically economically impossible to increase productivity at a faster rate. With this overheated economy that we are supposed to have we can expect a further increase in inflation which is going to drive out the relatively small producers and make it more and more difficult economically for them. Let us hope for some Government leadership in this Parliament. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Will he ensure that all telegraphic facilities are kept open in official post offices during times of emergency in order to avoid  a  serious breakdown in communications as arose when the recent Cyclone Ada struck the Proserpine-Mackay district and local telegraphic stations were closed on Saturday afternoon and Sunday. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it  a  fact that during the recent Cyclone Ada the Brisbane Weather Bureau had to send urgent telegrams to Mackay news media through Townsville because the Mackay and Proserpine telegraphic stations were closed on Saturday afternoon and Sunday. 
Did this procedure cause many hours of delay, particularly as telephone facilities between Townsville and Mackay were largely out of order. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to compensate Mackay and district boat owners some of whom expended large sums of money in using their boats for urgent rescue and search operations during Cyclone Ada and in providing an effective substitute for non-existent Australian naval boats. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Do the latest official employment figures show that in the Mackay district there was (a) a total of 1,168 persons unemployed and (b) a total of ninety-three jobs vacant. 
What are the details of those jobs which have not been filled. 
The object of the River Murray Waters Bill is to ratify the sixth further amending agreement to the River Murray Waters Agreement. The object of the second Bill, the Dartmouth Reservoir Agreement Bill, is to obtain the approval of the Parliament to an agreement with respect to financial assistance relating to the construction of a storage at Dartmouth. The objective of the River Murray Waters Bill is principally to allow the construction of a major storage at Dartmouth on the Mitta Mitta River and at the same time make provision in the agreement for the deferment of the construction of the Chowilla Reservoir until such time as the contracting governments decide to proceed with it. In other words, it could be said that this provision within the Bill sounds the death knell of Chowilla. 
Another major provision in the Bill allows far the construction of certain works - inlet and outlet works - at Lake Victoria so that there would be a quick supply of water to South Australia when it was needed. These works would be a major factor in the control of salinity. In other words, Lake Victoria is complementary or vital to the smooth operation of the River Murray Waters Agreement and the construction of Dartmouth. Another major provision in the Bill is to allow the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement to continue indefinitely and to be incorporated in the River Murray Waters Agreement. Other clauses of the Bill are important but they relate principally to machinery and administrative matters. 
This is a most important Bill - it is one which has caused tremendous political heat in South Australia in particular and in other States. It is necessary to explore some of the background to this Bill. Honourable members will recall that in the planning of the Snowy Mountains scheme it was decided to divert or transfer some of the Murray headwaters into the Murrumbidgee. This proposal was challenged by the South Australian Government in the High Court of 
Australia, and this challenge led to an investigation of the possibility of providing a storage works at Chowilla. 
Further, the technical committee set up to study this position provided a favourable report for the construction of a storage at Chowilla. In 1963 the Agreement was ratified by all 4 Parliaments. One of the most important clauses of this Agreement provided for a greater relative share of the water for South Australia with respect to the other States at critical periods of the year when drought was prevailing. In other words, the Agreement providing for Chowilla was ratified by the 4 governments and became the law of the land. It is still the law of the land as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. It has been ratified by this Parliament. The then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, spoke in glowing terms of this proposal. He applauded the scheme. It was inferred that the scheme was based on very sound technical evaluation by engineers and other technical people concerned with the planning of major storages. Chowilla, it was stated, would provide major benefits not only to South Australia but to the other two States. It allowed for the control of salinity - the immediate flushing of the river when this was necessary - and would benefit the areas concerned at critical periods of drought. It was in fact of vital importance to South Australia. It has been regarded as the most important asset in post war years that South Australia could have and at the same time it would provide a great asset for Victoria and New South Wales. 
Suddenly the rumblings of opposition to Chowilla were heard. The first evidence available was cost. In 1963 the estimate given was $28m. In March of 1966 this estimate had been increased to $43m. This was the estimate accepted by the contracting governments. However, in April 1967 the firm tender had jumped to $68m. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  gave this as one of the major reasons for the suspension of Chowilla. He said in his second reading speech: 
Accordingly it was agreed that work on the Chowilla storage should be suspended to enable a new comparison to be made between it and other possible developments in the upper Murray catchment, which had been considered in the earlier studies. 
Now it could be argued that the Government was acting in a responsible way because of the increase in costs. But it should not be inferred that this is a valid reason for the suspension of any project because at no time had there been a benefit-cost analysis made of the project and the mere fact the average cost per acre foot had increased substantially was no reason to suspend the work. The only way it could be suspended on economic grounds was by a comparison of benefits with the costs. But there were no economic benefits to compare with costs. Just because the incremental cost curve increases is no valid reason for the suspension of any project unless there is available a corresponding curve for the average revenue or marginal revenue - per acre foot in this sense. These comparisons were not available then and are still not available. I say that because the Opposition disagrees with this principal given as a reason for suspension. 
Another rumbling in opposition to Chowilla was with respect to salinity. Apparently when the project was first thoroughly investigated salinity was not considered to be a major problem. But, as a result of concentrated protests and more investigations, salinity became a major issue, and it was used by many as another valid reason to suspend or even knock the Chowilla Reservoir. I will deal with this later, but it might be appropriate to say now that the evaluation made by Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey has shown that salinity would be reduced in normal seasons by the equivalent of 20 parts per million below the average that would apply with a storage at Dartmouth, if Dartmouth were in operation. That is according to the computerised studies. This means that salinity was not as significant as first thought, when the opponents of Chowilla were using it as a major argument against Chowilla. Then the computer studies, which I will deal with later, based on their assumptions showed that salinity would be worse with Chowilla than with Dartmouth. I might say that it is most difficult to follow the hypotheses and the workings of this conclusion. I have not had access to the material that was fed into the computer or to the formula that was used, and it is most difficult to find out how the consultants arrived at this significant decision. I would think that this information should be made available to the Parliament. 
The next point that was made in opposition to Chowilla was that Chowilla would not be able to supply the requirements of the upper States. Why? On a revision it was shown that the original estimates of evaporation were very much wrong. There are also other reasons regarding the unregulated flow of the river, but one of the main reasons given was that there were errors either of judgment or of techniques in the assessment of the amount of evaporation. This means that even if the capacity of Chowilla were increased from 3.5 million acre feet to 5.06 million acre feet the amount of water for the upper States would not be significantly increased. This was the argument put forward in opposition to Chowilla. 
This could be a very serious proposition because the upper States had entered into commitments to expand production in the farming sector on the assumption that this water would be available. In fact it could be argued from the facts available that their commitments to expand production are of such a degree that they require something like an additional 700,000 acre feet of water. In other words, New South Wales and Victoria have gone merrily ahead expanding primary production on the assumption that this water would be available, but after these new studies were made it was found that Chowilla, after providing the entitlement to South Australia of 1.254 million or 1.5 million acre feet, would not allow sufficient water to be made available to meet the requirements of the upper States. This matter is urgent because, as those living in New South Wales and Victoria know, water is a very serious problem in those States as well as in South Australia. So the general conclusion with respect to this argument given by the opponents of Chowilla was that there was an urgent need for water in the upper States and that Chowilla would not be able to supply sufficient water to meet the commitments entered into. 
Then there were the political pressures put on by  Sir Henry  Bolte. There were also very well-organised farming bodies in support of the salinity argument. All of these factors led the opponents of Chowilla to put forward an argument for the suspension of the Chowilla project. One major argument I have not mentioned is the issue with respect to evaporation. I mentioned it indirectly when talking about water for the upper States. Evaporation was estimated to be about 600,000 acre feet in the original analysis, and apparently in the revised analysis it jumped up by 50% to something like 900,000 acre feet. All these vital issues were sufficient to persuade a willing Government to suspend the Chowilla project. 
It was then decided that some alternatives must be looked at for the provision of further storages in the upper catchment of the Murray. After the investigations were made the technical committee published its report based on simulated computer studies. Of course anybody famil'iar with computers knows that they are able to handle a tremendous number of variables which come up with optimum figures. It is necessary to look at the results of the technical committee's report because it is on this that the Commonwealth and the 3 State governments have based their whole argument for Dartmouth in preference to Chowilla. They compared the relative costs - not the benefits in economic terms - of the 2 storages and formed general hypotheses. They formulated conclusions which supported Dartmouth at the expense of Chowilla and which resulted in this legislation. 
From stream gauging and other data the optimum storage of Dartmouth was worked out at 3 million acre feet, but in relation to average cost and incremental cost curves as assessed by the computer. The technical committee in its wisdom - it docs not give concrete reasons for this - decided to go beyond the level of the minimum average cost. The minimum average cost allowed for a storage capacity of approximately 2.3 million acre feet. It went further than this and worked out that with an incremental cost of $200 per acre feet the storage could be increased from 2.3 million acre feet to 3 million acre feet. The reason given for this is that this figure would be the estimated relevant cost of the next development project and that therefore with such an assumption one could go ahead and construct this storage to an optimum of 3 million acre feet. In terms of the average cost per acre feet there is little difference between 2.3 million acre feet and 3 million acre feet. It is a little over $50. But the increase is significant in terms of the amount of water that is available in the end. 
The results of investigations show that the optimum figure for Chowilla was 3.5 million acre feet and not 5.06 million acre feet as was originally thought. If one looks at the technical report and the operational load of between 600 and 900 cusecs, one can see a flattening of the curve as the storage capacity is increased. Apparently evaporation must be an important issue when 'he capacity is increased from 3 million acre feet to 5.06 million acre feet. In fact the computer showed that the optimum storage capacity for Chowilla was 3.5 million acre feet. What does this mean in terms of total water supplies to South Australia and the upper States? It means that with an original entitlement of 1.254 million acre feet the total average annual supply would be 4.381 million acre feet. If South Australia's share were increased to 1.5 million acre feet the total average annual supply would increase to 4.552 million acre feet. It may seem puzzling that if the entitlement is increased the total availability of water should increase. This mathematical anomaly is due to more efficient use of the unregulated storages. 
Although total supplies represent a big issue the important factor is a comparison of the marginal or incremental increases. The evaluation showed that with Dartmouth the available supplies would be increased by 1 million acre feet as compared with between 200,000 and 380,000 feet at Chowilla. The variability at Chowilla is due, of course, to the load factor on the river - that is, 600 cusecs to 900 cusecs at Mildura. It was pointed out that if Dartmouth were to proceed works would have to be undertaken at Lake Victoria which is vital to the smooth operation of the river. There has to be a source of quick water to be available to South Australia in critical times and there has to be some system whereby water can be released quickly to control salinity. Provision was made for $5m to $7m to be spent at Lake Victoria to integrate it with Dartmouth. There is no need to mention to those who know the project that if Chowilla were to proceed after Dartmouth, all the works at Lake 
Victoria would be inundated and one could argue that all moneys spent on constructions at Lake Victoria would be lost. 
According to the technical report the overall result from Dartmouth is that South Australia would get an entitlement of 1.2S4 million acre feet increased to 1.5 million acre feet - an increase of about  i  million acre feet. Moreover, it would allow for the annual supplies required by the upper States. It is on these vital assumptions that the Government has decided to defer Chowilla - one could say to knock Chowilla or to sound the death knell of Chowilla - and go ahead with Dartmouth. Menindee also is vital to the project. Provision has been made for Menindee and my colleague, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  will speak on this aspect. The crucial factor in the economics evaluation as laid down by the technical committee - and I stress that - is that a storage of 0.53 million acre feet at Dartmouth would provide benefits in terms of the combined average annual supply to the upper States equivalent to a storage of 3.5 million acre feet at Chowilla. This would mean that for a construction cost of S25m at Dartmouth the project would provide benefits equivalent to Chowilla. I stress that this is what the technical report says; it is not what the Opposition says. If there were an operational load factor of 600 cusecs there would be an equivalent of 0.70 million acre feet which would involve, according to the technical committee, a sum of $31m for a storage at Dartmouth. On the assumptions and results put forward the Government bases its case for Dartmouth. In essence the favourable report of the technical committee now places Dartmouth on a higher priority plane than Chowilla. This is what the Government bases its decision on. It claims that South Australia will get more water with greater security, there will be more water for New South Wales and Victoria and salinity will be greater at Chowilla in drought years than it will be at Dartmouth. Thus we have a combined favourable report showing Dartmouth's superiority to Chowilla. 
The Parliament is being asked to ratify the agreement. It is the Opposition's intention to oppose ratification of the agreement because in the past there have been so many bunglings, wrong estimates and complete somersaults with respect to vital factors like salinity and costs that one must place grave doubts on the assumptions that underlie the computer conclusions. The conclusions of the computer analysis are only as good as the assumptions upon which that analysis is based. Some unknowns are involved. Why did the Government not order the computer to take a step further? The report talks about a step further. It refers to a further stage and mentions Chowilla. 
On extra storagethe next stage after Dartmouth. That is what the incremental cost analysis for Dartmouth is based on. It is argued that a storage at Jingellic might also be favourable. The argument the Opposition puts is that the computer should have gone a step further and have made an analysis of Dartmouth and Chowilla together. This does not necessarily mean Dartmouth and Chowilla at the full capital costs of $57m and an extra $54m, but a comparison of an integrated system with Dartmouth and Chowilla at variable storage capacities to see what the results would be. The report admits that Chowilla may be the next stage. Such an analysis should be undertaken. 
I mentioned costs as an unknown. There is a firm tender for Chowilla. The cost of Dartmouth is estimated to be $57m, but how do we know that when tenders are called for this work the costs may not be $80m? We do not know this. The total cost of most dams in Australia has been found to have been underestimated. I do. not include the Snowy system in that statement. Another unknown is the technical information in relation to Dartmouth itself. One of the most vital variables in the computer would be the storage capacity of Dartmouth in relation to the annual capacity of the Hume Reservoir and also in relation to the amount of water being fed into the river above and below the Hume Reservoir. These are important variables which are vital to assessing the optimum capacity of Dartmouth. From my understanding of the position we could validly question whether sufficient information is available for the computer to make a definite decision, based on the stream gaugings in the Mitta Mitta area, that 3 million acre feet is the optimum. There could be less, and if there is less as shown by a further evaluation, using another variable in the computer, this could have a decided bearing on the overall technical analysis. The computer data should have been given to the Parliament. If the amount of acre feet shown by the stream gauging and other methods had been variable, what would have been the final result compared with Chowilla? This is important. One answer alone is not good enough because if that one assumption is wrong the entire case could be invalid. We must be more flexible in looking at the results of computer studies. 
Another major variable in the computer study is the load factor on the river itself at Mildura. The two variables used are 600 cusecs and 900 cusecs. One might ask what the computer result would be if it progressively reduced the load factor from 900 cusecs to, say, 300 cusecs. What is the propriety of 900 cusecs at Mildura? Who has fixed this figure? This flow certainly is not available to farmers at Waikerie or elsewhere in South Australia. If the computer arrived at a figure of 300 cusecs this would show a very great difference in the analysis. It would show that Chowilla would be able to supply almost the 2.7 million acre feet required for the upper States. 1 raise this only because it is an unknown. My question is: What is the justification of a computer analysis based on 900 cusecs flow at Mildura? No such liberal amount is available to the irrigation areas in South Australia. What is the propriety of evaluating the comparison between Dartmouth and Chowilla based always on the requirements of New South Wales and Victoria and the entitlement only of South Australia? Why has no computer study been made of the maximum amount of water available to South Australia. 
Another unknown is the expenditure contemplated on Lake Victoria. It is not good enough to proceed with the Bill when $7m could go down the drain if we build Chowilla at a later stage. There are no economic benefits in quantitative terms in the technical report. The technical committee's report that the costs favour Dartmouth over Chowilla does not necessarily mean that the benefits also favour Dartmouth. No benefit cost analysis has been made. The benefits are assumed to be equal but the major amount of water for the upper States is for irriga tion. A large proportion of the water for South Australia is for people and industrial uses. It is obvious that .the benefits in a benefit cost ratio would not be equal. Here is another unknown. 
We come then to the matter of salinity. Nobody seems to be satisfied with the explanations given regarding salinity. Another unknown. It is a hit and miss type of approach. Everything is based on the fact that the computer must be right. I am one who will argue in favour of computers, having worked at some length with them in the farming areas of America, but with qualifications. 
Like the honourable member for Angas, I know that if the assumptions fed into the computer are shaky the conclusions will be just as shaky and in fact could be magnified through cumulative action. 
Than k you  Mr Speaker,  lt is obvious that there has been bungling in the past with respect to facts relating to storages, planning, evaporation and available supplies in the whole system. This simply is not good enough. All the history is known. Nobody can deny that. It is of no use saying that in 1963 a thorough analysis was made but 3 years later all the assumptions go overboard and there is a different result. Somebody must have been wrong. Obviously there was insufficient planning. Accordingly I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House  is  of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the  States  for the establishment of a national water conservation and construction authority, embracing  the Snowy  Mountains Authority, to carry out  a  systematic and efficient development of soundly based water storages in the major river basins including the 
Murray  and Darling systems.' 
The Opposition will move further amendments in the Committee stage. Time and time again in this Parliament we have had this ad hoc approach to water conservation. We must plan our water resources efficiently. We must use the computers to determine the next stage of development. In the Committee stage the Opposition will move amendments which will have the effect of refusing to ratify the Agreement. We want to know more about the variables. It is not good enough to have this ad hoc approach of firstly taking Chowilla and then knocking Chowilla and saying that Dartmouth is better. We want planning to give us simple answers within the scope of the best technical assumptions of the day. We want to know the next step which is vital to both Dartmouth and Chowilla. It is no good saying that Chowilla might be the next step. It could be that in the evaluation of a storage of varying capacities Dartmouth and Chowilla would be superior to either Dartmouth or Chowilla taken in isolation. These are answers we want to know and the purpose of the amendments we will move in the Committee stage is to ascertain this information. 
There are lessons to be learned from Chowilla and now Dartmouth - lessons which this Parliament and the 3 States concerned should heed because, assuming politics does not enter into the matter, never again should we enter into agreements based on alleged expert advice that a proposal like Chowilla is the best one but 3 years later is found to be all wrong and Dartmouth is now the better project. Somebody is wrong, and I have enough faith in engineers and technicians to know that- 
No - that somewhere a proper evaluation was not made by the engineers. For this reason the Opposition refuses to accept the computerised studies that are now made on the existing assumptions. There are many assumptions here which we can validly criticise and we hope that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will answer those criticisms. It is no good his saying that this is the best information available, for example, with respect to stream gauging in the Mitta Mitta area. If that is the answer we want to know the variable computer result. We want to know what the results would be with respect to Chowilla. As I have said Dartmouth and Chowilla together - I stress again that this does not mean the two big storages but Dartmouth and Chowilla together - could give a better economic result than Dartmouth alone or Chowilla alone. This information is required and this is one reason why we will oppose ratification of the Agreement. 
The Government's ad hoc approach to water conservation is not good enough. We have seen the effects of it in other areas. We have not been able to get benefit-cost analyses of the Ord River, the Nogoa and the Burnett schemes. We know benefit-cost analyses have been made of these projects but we also know that no benefit-cost analysis at all has been made of Chowilla versus Dartmouth. The assumption simply is that all the benefits per acre foot are equal. As I pointed out before it could easily be that the benefits of supplying water to the people and industrial users in South Australia are greater in value than are the benefits of supplying water to the farmers in the upper reaches of the Murray. I am not saying they are; but we want at least to have an evaluation made. After all, this Government categorically insists, as does the Treasury, that benefit-cost analyses are needed to determine proper priorities. That is why we want at least to have an evaluation made of Dartmouth and Chowilla together. 
In our amendment, we envisage the setting up of a Murray-Darling authority within the national authority. It would be able to plan effectively and would be properly staffed, utilising the staff of the Snowy Mountains Authority. The Acts enabling it to be established are there. A MurrayDarling authority could operate under a co-ordinated legislative framework, which could replace the present piecemeal series of Acts that cover those rivers and their tributaries. I refer to the River Murray Waters Act 1915 and amending Acts, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority Act, the Blowering Water Storage Works Agreement Act, the Menindee Lakes Storage Agreement Act and the Chowilla Reservoir Agreement Act. All legislative measures could be combined and we could have one competent authority. The Commonwealth and State governments and the people would then get the best results for their money. We can see that if Chowilla does not go ahead there could be a waste of money at Lake Victoria. If Dartmouth does go ahead without any comparative evaluation of Dartmouth and Chowilla together we also could have a senseless waste of money. The waters of Lake Victoria would inundate the S7m worth of works which are planned and are vital to Dartmouth. 
In the Committee stage we will move an amendment to negate the clause that defers the construction of Chowilla. The law of the land today from Commonwealth legislation requires the construction of Chowilla. The Opposition believes that it should remain the law of the land until some other project can be shown without doubt and without qualification to be superior to Chowilla. We do not believe at this stage that any other project has been shown to be superior to it within the assumptions that have already been made in the technical committee's report. There is an urgency in this problem, because of the increased commitments made by New South Wales and Victorian farmers and the decisions of the governments of those two States to expand primary production. There is an urgent need for more water in South Australia in critical periods. This was shown in the critical period of the drought 3 years ago. There is no need to argue further that there is an urgent need for water in South Australia; it is the lifeblood of South Australia. Chowilla has been described as the greatest asset that South Australia could have because it would ensure adequate water supplies and all things living, plant or human, need water. Some 85% of the people of South Australia are dependent on the Murray water supply. With the construction of the Tailem Bend pipeline this figure will rise to over 90%. In fact no State relies on water for its livelihood more than South Australia does. 
This present farcical situation must never arise again. We should not in Parliament today have to compare Dartmouth with Chowilla. We should not have to walk the tight rope of politics between the various States and the Commonwealth. This would never have happened if the evaluations originally carried out had been backed. The 
Government, through the technical committee's report, has shown a reverse view now. Whatever arguments are put forward, this situation must never happen again. The Commonwealth law calls for the construction of Chowilla and as far as the Opposition is concerned that will remain until the Government convinces us that it should be altered. The second reading speech of the Minister has not so convinced us. 
-I move: 
Omit 'is hereby ratified and Approved', insert shall not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed'. 
The reason for this proposal was touched upon by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who was the former Minister for National Development, when we on this side of the House asked that for the crucial part of this investigation an evaluation of the two storages, Dartmouth and Chowilla, at various capacities be carried out. Nowhere in the technical report does such an evaluation appear. An analysis has been made of Chowilla. The Government, acting on the advice of the technical report, has stated that Dartmouth is superior in terms of costs rather than of the actual evaluation of benefits. Why has the computer not taken it further and considered the integration of Chowilla with Dartmouth? We received the reply from the former Minister for National Development that this has already been done; in fact he gave us the answer. But why has the answer not been made public? Where is the answer? 
It is in no technical report. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  followed this up and said that he himself has examined the information. Where is the information? That is what the Parliament wants to find out. If it is good enough for the honourable member for Angas to examine this information in private then it is good enough for this Parliament to have access to it. It is simply not good enough for the honourable member for Farrer, and the honourable member for Angas to rise in this Parliament and say that they have already seen the data, that they have already seen the evaluation, that they, have already seen the results. Why has this Parliament not seen the results? What sort of arrangement is this? 
I am not too certain, but I am going to direct a question to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  as to whether he has seen the results. I have some doubt that he has. What sort of game is being played in this Parliament when Liberal members can see confidential information and the Parliament cannot? Let us make the information available. It is vital to the whole case of the Dartmouth and Chowilla storages. We want to know firstly how good Chowilla is, how good Dartmouth is compared with Chowilla, and how good is a Dartmouth-Chowilla composite? That is the purpose of the amendment. 
I must say that, like all other members of the Opposition, I was amazed - and I am quite certain that some members of the Government were - to find that the information has apparently been made available confidentially to members of the Government but not to the Parliament and not to the Opposition. I ask the Minister for National Development, who is at the table, what assumptions were made for this analysis. What types of storages were they? Were they full storages at optimum levels or were they smaller storages? Neither the former Minister for National Development nor the honourable member for Angas made that clear. It is not good enough for two members of the Government to rise and give us an answer to this very important question without our having any information available to evaluate it ourselves. I think it is a pretty disgraceful performance. Why has the information not been tabled in the Parliament? I hope that the Miniser for National Development will make the information available to us, because we cannot evaluate the Dartmouth-Chowilla proposals properly in relation to the Murray complex until we have this next step. 
We are told, for example, in the technical report that Chowilla may be the next proposal after Dartmouth, but does this mean that there will be an inundation of Lake Victoria? That is the next question I want to ask. The honourable member for Farrer, who is the former Minister for National Development, answered me again and said that I was quite wrong and that Lake Victoria may not be submerged; that a survey is being carried out. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said that Lake Victoria will be submerged. How does one marry those two arguments? I say that the $7m expended on Lake Victoria would be wasted because Lake Victoria would be submerged, but the honourable member for Farrer says that this may be wrong. Who is right? 
Is it being submerged? 
Why did you not take it up with the former Minister for National Development? I ask now that the Minister for National Development answer these questions and give us this information, because we want to know this information to which the honourable member for Farrer and the honourable member for Angas have access. If it is good enough for them to have it, it is good enough for the Parliament to see it. 
 Mr Speaker,  we have witnessed tonight one of the most disgraceful episodes in this Parliament- 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Yes. 
I assume that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  will gag me again. One could expect that from- 
I was about to say,  Mr Speaker,  that I assumed that the Minister would gag me again, like the dingo that he is, as he has shown tonight. 
I withdraw it and substitute the words 'tame dog'. 
I withdraw and apologise.  Mr Speaker,  it is rarely that one speaks on the third reading of a Bill. 
-I move, under standing order 236: 
That the Bill be recommitted. 
This is to enable me to move the amendments that I was prevented by the gag from moving last night. 

 - Mr Speaker- 


 - Mr Speaker, in view of the decision of the House to refuse to allow the Opposition to move vital amendments to this Bill during the Committee stage, it is necessary, and it is our intention, to oppose the third reading and to oppose the ratification of this agreement which has been made and which the Government is asking the Parliament today to ratify. During the course of the debate on this Bill arguments have been put forward by the Opposition as to why there should be a delay in going ahead with the decision to build the Dartmouth dam. This is necessary until we have all of the factual information before us. We have seen in this House the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)- 
Yes. 
You do not tell the truth. Tell the truth - go on. 
Then let him tell the truth. 
They were in the drawer. 
Yes, ready for use. 
It was between the Minister for National Development, who was sitting at the table, and myself. 
Where else would they be? 
It is an estimate. 
This is a cognate Bill with the River Murray Waters Bill. All of the discussion with respect to the River Murray Waters Bill and Dartmouth is relevant. It is not my intention to debate this Bill, which relates to the financial provisions. We have no argument with the financial provisions - with the arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States with respect to finance. Our argument, as has been stated, is that insufficient information is available to the Parliament to enable the Opposition to support this Bill. Accordingly 1 move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House is of opinion that the Agreement should not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed'. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  made it clear at the conclusion of his speech on the third reading of the River Murray Waters Bill that these computer studies have been made and that he will make them available to me so that assumptions on which the conclusions contained in the technical report were based may be analysed by the Opposition. I thank the Minister for that offer but until we have an opportunity to consider the assumptions and the conclusions that have been deduced from those assumptions it is our intention to oppose the Bill. This is why I have moved the amendment. 
This is a most serious matter. The motion before the House is one which seeks to censure the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden).  The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  moved a further form of words which if accepted mean that it would be a motion of censure directed against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I was impressed, and I think all honourable members must have been impressed, by the cold, hard logic of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  When he speaks in this House he usually speaks with considered logic. He spoke this afternoon with logic that must be heeded unless we are to make a mockery of this Parliament. What he pointed out was that by seeking a censure of one person you use a form of words to cause a result which in effect means an examination of a censure of another person. In other words, it becomes a trial of the Parliament as to who is the guilty person. This was not under any circumstances the logic behind the amendment, nor is it the logic behind Standing Orders. 
To illustrate the absurdity of the situation  r-  I say this with all respect to you,  Sir, and  your ruling from which we dissent - there are some people, hypothetical, who might consider that it was the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who was at fault. So I submit that there is nothing to stop my moving a further form of words that the Minister for National Development be censured. As some very vocal honourable members probably think it was I who caused the problem last night, because the operative word according to your ruling is relevancy', it would be open for somebody to move another form of words seeking to censure me. That would be 4 censure motions. We could take this to absurd lengths with respect to other people. This would be a mockery. It would become a trial of the entire Parliament to find out what happened last night or at some other time and would be far removed from the intent not only of the motion but also of 
Standing Orders. If the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  would cease talking to you,  Mr Speaker,  and let me continue- 
I am sorry, but I am treating this matter very seriously and am addressing all of my remarks to you. 
If you can listen to two people at the one time you are good, and I know you are. I have tried to follow the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in logic because, after all, it is logic which formulates Standing Orders. It is logic upon which you base your decision. This is not a trial of the Parliament to ascertain the guilty person. Firstly, we have a motion of censure against the Leader of the House. If the Government believes that the Leader of the Opposition or some other honourable member is guilty let it move a separate motion and have that debated. But it is absurd in logic to suggest that we might go through the list of honourable members, seeking to censure one after the other. This would become a trial in the Parliament to decide who is the person to be censured. 
My question to the Minister for the Interior concerns one of the major deficiencies revealed in the Cyclone Ada disaster, namely, the inability of the Bureau of Meteorology to determine accurately by radar the wind velocity and intensity of cyclones which are a menace to the northern half of Australia. Will the Government rectify this deficiency and make available from its large fleets of aircraft a technically equipped spotter aircraft to allow the Bureau to measure and forecast accurately the intensity of cyclones? This practice is used effectively in other countries susceptible to tornadoes and cyclones and it is sorely needed in Australia. 
The Opposition wishes to be associated with this motion. The high schools at Casuarina and Alice Springs have been the subject of debate in this House. The Opposition has stated that the schools are greatly needed. It is noted that each school will be constructed to house approximately 1,100 pupils which is a fair sized school by Darwin or Alice Springs standards. It is noted also that a craft block is to be constructed. This is a great innovation in that it will allow the elements of trades to be incorporated in the basic curriculum of the schools. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  did not state the advantages of having a single contract for both schools. I assume that there would be decided economic advantages. I expect that is the answer. If materials and plans were available in a single contract there would be less scope for duplication and therefore a saving on construction costs could be made. One of the points made to me about the original plans was that not sufficient thought was given to the access provisions at Casuarina. I understand from listening to the Minister that the Committee has taken this into account and that improvements have been made. The Opposition supports the motion. 

 Mr CALDER (Northern Territory) 14.52] - I rise to support the motion concerning the building of these 2 schools at Casuarina and Alice Springs at a cost of $2.4m each. 1 know that (o some extent there has been a re-design to alter the flow of traffic. I commend the Committee on this because Darwin is a city which is growing at the rate of about 12% per annum and these traffic problems can be overcome if the original planning is carried out. Concerning the Alice Springs school and indeed ail the schools in the Northern Territory, I have been very active in putting up a case for grassed ovals. In the past there have been no sporting facilities at schools such as that at Tennant Creek, other than a bit of asphalt, gravel and dirt. Physical education is very important in the upbringing of the young, especially in towns where there are coloured and part coloured children playing and working alongside white children. 
It is a great idea to plan these ovals and I commend their inclusion. I would also like to mention the planning staff and the work that went into havingthe estimates and the plans for these schools brought forward so that the work would not be held up by delay in the Public Works Committee consideration. I commend the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Opposition supports the motion. Extra administrative buildings are needed in Darwin because many members of the technical staff are housed in sub-standard buildings. In fact, these buildings are the aftermath of the Second World War. Those people who know the Northern Territory are aware of the problems experienced by the technical staff and others who are not properly housed, particularly those who work in buildings which are not air conditioned. I understand that a cafeteria service will be available. This is the type of building which is warranted in a progressive area like Darwin. The Opposition supports the motion. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Hashis Department undertaken any research designed to measure the economic disabilities suffered by woolgrowers as a result of the effects of Government growth policies and the tariff. 
If so, will he release the relevant results. 
I listened intently to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  I have listened to the several speeches he has made in this Parliament. All of them have been considered, rational and based on some semblance of research. Just what got into the honourable member tonight is beyond me. I do not know whether his Liberal masters have told him to stir the old Red bogy or to raise the Communist tin can in the Parliament tonight, but whatever the reason I can assure him that he has not earned any credit for himself from this side of the House. 
That is a matter of opinion. Frequently in this new Parliament we have heard smear tactics by members of the Government parties trying to link members of the Opposition with the Communist Party. Quite frequently when one asks Government members outside the House why they did this they say: 'Well, you know, politics are polities'. In other words they do not believe it themselves. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  stated categorically that the honourable member for Curtin, in his legal capacity, had represented a Communist. The honourable member for Curtin took a point of order and said that he did not. I was amazed and I said - I repeat what I said - that he was a hypocrite. You.  Mr Speaker,  quite rightly asked me to withdraw that remark. 

 - Mr Speaker, I withdraw it. I do not know why the honourable member for Curtin wanted to degrade himself in the Parliament tonight when trying to make a speech that I am quite certain he does not believe. I want to get on to an important topic now - the question of tele phones. I concern myself with the refusal of the Government to provide continuous telegraph facilities - continuous in the sense of 7 days a week - for important north Queensland towns. I believe that the refusal to do so shows a pathetic lack of appreciation of the importance of north Queensland areas to the economy of Australia. The practice of closing down on Saturday afternoons, Saturday nights and Sundays, telegram or telegraph facilities in north Queensland, except for Townsville and I think Cairns, is a glaring example of this deficiency. In my own area, the district of Mackay, which after all is one of the most important economic areas in the north, there is only one way to lodge a telegram on a Saturday afternoon and that is by telephoning Rockhampton or Townsville. This costs money. I believe this shows a deplorable lack of planning, that it is a semblance of the financial problems which confront the administration of the Post Office, and that it indicates the financial mess associated with priorities. For many years the Mackay district was the Cinderella of development in the north. It was the last major centre in Australia to receive television, although in terms of the size of the viewing public it was entitled to a higher priority than many areas that received a television service earlier than it did. Up till a few years ago large aircraft could not land there because the runway was too short. It was the only major port in Australia which did not have an all-weather road to its hinterland, which is an important intensive beef cattle area. These deficiencies have been rectified now. But we are still faced with this retrograde policy of not having efficient telegraph facilities available for 7 days a week. In other words, on Saturday afternoon, all day Sunday and Sunday night the city of Mackay is blacked out from the rest of the world, except that one can ring Townsville or Rockhampton to lodge a telegram. The serious deficiencies were shown in stark reality during the recent cyclone 'Ada'. There is no need to go into that again because it is well known, but it has caused very serious problems. 
The fact is that telegram facilities were not available at the height of the cyclone when it destroyed holiday resorts like Hayman Island, South Molle, Daydream Island and the coastal resort of Shute Harbour. 
There were not telegraph facilities available in the important centre of Mackay.I maintain this is an archaic and retrograde step in 1970. Let us have a look at the area. It is the most important sugar growing area of Australia. It is hub and the tourist centre of the Great Barrier Reef. At present it is the main centre of activity for the large scale development by Utah Construction and Engineering Pty Ltd of the Goonyella coal deposits. Its importance can be gauged by the fact that it has the fourth most important airport in Australia outside the capital cities. Is it any wonder that sometimes when influential tourists from southern regions or overseas come to Mackay at the weekend they believe they have suddenly landed at some hillbilly town? They cannot send a telegram. They are told to get in the multi-coin box. To try to find change they perhaps go to the local pie shop so that they can ring Rockhampton to send a telegram. 
This is one of the most important cities in the north. Even people in the Northern Territory who are linked with the Flying Doctor Service can send telegrams on 7 days a week. One would think that in this year of 1970, 200 years after Captain Cook came here, at least we would have telegram facilities in the richest sugar growing area in Australia and one of the most important areas for the tourist industry in Australia for 7 days a week. 
I raise again the question of telephone facilities on the highways. Between Mackay and Rockhampton there is a 150 mile stretch of the No. 1 road in Australia, the highway stretching from Adelaide to Cairns, in which there are no public telephones at all. People who have travelled over this route know full well the serious problems which arise in times of emergency through accidents, floods or the recent cyclone. There is no way of communicating with the outside world. If the creeks are up, people are marooned and there is no telephone. Two years ago I mentioned in this House the murders and the sniping that took place on this highway - an infamous highway - and still we have no telephone facilities. Like the people of the north, I totally reject the claim by the Government that telephone and telegram facilities cannot be provided simply because it is not economically justified. After all a government which can squander something like $200m. on the Fill cannot argue on economic grounds that it cannot provide telephone facilities on a highway or telegram facilities in one of the most important cities in the north of Australia.I ask the Government to do something about this matter. 

 - Mr Speaker, i move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a motion being moved calling for the tabling of pertinent correspondence between the Commonwealth and the States and other relevant documents relating to all agreements or understandings on the ownership and control of off-shore resources. 
The object of the motion that I have moved on behalf of the Opposition to suspend the standing orders is to allow this Parliament to consider a motion to be proposed concerning the right of the Parliament to study all relevant documents and to ascertain whether or not - as is now commonly known  -  the exMinister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  entered into an agreement with the States on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia, backed with Cabinet approval, with respect to the ownership and control of off-shore resources: whether in fact this undertaking or this agreement is contrary to the proposed legislation which was foreshadowed by the Governor-General; and whether that legislation is a breach of the arrangements made with the States. 
If in fact the Commonwealth Government through its then responsible Minister - and he was a responsible Minister and a man who has the respect of this side of the House and, 1 believe, the respect of the Government side of the House - entered into an agreement or an undertaking - not necessarily a legal undertaking - with responsible State Ministers with respect to the administration, control and ownership of off-shore resources, it is imperative that this Parliament be given the right to analyse and understand what is meant by that agreement or undertaking. Parliament,  Mr Speaker,  is entitled to know. It is entitled to know the facts because the legislation which has been foreshadowed by the Governor-General is one of the most important pieces of legislation relating to matters between the Commonwealth and the States to be introduced into the Parliament 
I do so now. If the previous Prime Minister, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, and his Cabinet endorsed an undertaking made by- the then Minister for National Development with the responsible Ministers of the States, it is necessary for this Parliament to have a clear and concise understanding of that undertaking. How are we expected to consider this most important pi see of legislation when a very responsible former Minister has stated that there was an agreement and that this foreshadowed legislation is in fact a breach of that agreement? How are we on the Opposition side or honourable members on the Government side expected to consider rationally and sensibly this legislation when we do not know whether there has been an agreement? That is the purpose of the Opposition's motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
We want to make it clear to you,  Mr Speaker,  and to the Ministers that we do not want to see Cabinet decisions or submissions or information which is privy in every sense of the word. We simply want the evidence that must be available, the correspondence between the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Premiers; correspondence between the former Minister for National Development and his State counterparts; correspondence between the Commonwealth Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and State Attorneys-General; and pertinent minutes of the meetings between the former Minister for National Development and the State Ministers for Mines. If this correspondence is tabled it will show quite clearly whether there has been an agreement or understanding with respect to the administration of this proposed legislation. Such an agreement or understanding is fundamental to the whole purpose of the legislation. How can we be expected to debate responsibly when we do not know whether an agreement has been made? As I said before, we do not want confidential information in the form of Cabinet submissions; we want simply the correspondence that has gone between the Commonwealth and the States in this respect. 
It is the view of the Opposition that there has been an undertaking or agreement. If there has not, why would responsible State Ministers say that there has been a distinct breach of an undertaking between the Commonwealth and the States. The South Australian Premier has stated that the Commonwealth move has come in the face of a clear undertaking given previously. The State Ministers collectively on 26th March voiced their concern at the discourtesy of the Federal Government in announcing the new policy without first honouring the agreement that talks would be held with the States. On 13th March 1970 the State Ministers for Mines and the AttorneysGeneral met in Melbourne and issued a statement saying that the Federal Government had broken a clear understanding. Arc we to believe that the former Minister for National Development is deliberately trying to mislead this House? Are we to believe that the responsible State Ministers for Mines and some of the AttorneysGeneral are making this up? This is the reason why we want the information. This is the reason why the Opposition believes that this Parliament is entitled to the information. 
If it is good enough for the former Minister for National Development - his judgment and integrity are respected by honourable members on this side of the House - to maintain that there was an agreement then we also believe there was an agreement. Our belief is backed by the statement given by the State Ministers for Mines and the State Attorneys-General. This is the important fact the Parliament wants to know. I do not wish to delay the House for this is purely a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. However it is our intention to move in this way so that the Prime Minister will have the opportunity either to prove or disprove the allegations made by the former Minister for National Development. If he tables in this Parliament the evidence that we want it will show whether the Prime Minister or the former Minister for National Development is telling the truth. It is as blunt as that. Only by tabling this information will we find out the facts of this matter. On the one hand we have the former Minister for National Development. He is backed by the State Attorneys-General and the State Ministers for Mines who maintain there has been a breach of an agreement entered into by the former Minister for National Development with the backing of his Cabinet and the late Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt. It is the Opposition's belief that we cannot go ahead and consider this legislation until we know whether an agreement was in fact made and, if it was, the contents of that agreement. 
I listened quite carefully to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  One of the points that he made was that estate duty was a cruel and vicious tax. If he believes that it is a cruel and vicious tax I would remind him that he is a supporter of the Government, which is placing the burden of this cruel and vicious tax on primary producers. If he wants to be fair dinkum he may merve an amendment or he may oppose the Bill; but as always happens we will see the members of the Country Party, who say that this is a cruel and vicious tax, support the Government when it comes to a vote. What the honourable member for Gwydir should do is to vote either for the amendment or against the Bill. 
The honourable memmer says that it is a cruel and vicious tax but he is a supporter of the Government, which is implementing this tax. Practically everything else that the honourable member said about primary industry I would agree with, but when one examines estate duty as it applies to all people in Australia there are probably points on which we could join issue. The honourable member for Gwydir criticised the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and said: It is ridiculous to say that the bigger the farm the greater will be the relief. I am not certain what criterion the honourable member for Gwydir used here. In relative percentage terms this might be so, but in absolute terms there is no question that the bigger the property in terms of capitalisation or net value assessable the bigger will be the relief. If he means that the maximum should be $250,000, fair enough. If he thinks it should be greater than that, he should move an amendment. 
One aspect that I should like to deal with involves a fairly technical matter - the honourable member for Gwydir dealt with it - namely, land value, which I believe is quite iniquitous in the assessment of probate and estate duties on farms. To prove my point I refer to research that I undertook on this matter some time ago. It is still relevant because, as the honourable member for Gwydir knows, land does not change hands quickly like motor cars and other items. From the figures that I have taken out from various surveys that have been conducted by the Commonwealth Government, some surprising facts emerge. These figures relate to bona fide farms. I base my data on surveys conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics at different times. They reveal that the average wheat farm in Australia changes hands once in 52 years. This does not mean a change of hands from father to son or changes within a family, but a sale to another person. The average farm where the income is derived mainly from wool changes hands once in 58 years. This means that within this section of primary industry, where the turnover of land is infrequent, considerable death duties are collected from the family concerned. At the other end of the scale the greatest turnover is in respect of poultry farms where, as one would expect, there is smaller capitalisation. Such farms chang? ownership on average once in 21 years. In Queensland beef cattle properties change hands, in terms of new ownership, once in 60 years. My point is that an unfair valuation is applied to such land. 
am quite certain that the honourable member for Gwydir would agree with me that the most authentic figures obtained during the last wheat survey revealed that land value increased by 91% in the 5-year period 1962-1967. There has been no survey since then. If a wheat farm changes hands completely only once in 52 years, the family is penalised because of the application of probate and estate duties when in the meantime it passes from father to son or sons. The Government should give more systematic thought to the incidence or burden of probate and estate duties not only on primary producers but on all sections of the community. There is need for a study. My point with respect to primary industry is that the most - important asset on which farmers are being penalised is land, and land has a fictitious value. To realise this one needs only to look at the rate of return on capital as shown in various economic surveys. For instance, in the dairy industry a rate of return on capital of 2% is common, but the value of the land is far in excess of the capitalisation equivalent of the net income. One reason, of course, is that only a relatively small amount of land changes hands as a percentage of the total. The Government should have regard to the influence of the so-called Collins Street farmers, or whatever they might be called. When they buy land or when a neighbour buys land it is at a figure which is often inflated. It is higher than the true value of the land. When official valuers value everybody's land they take the official records of the land being sold in that period which are dominated by the small volume of sales - not bona fide sales when one looks at the figures - and the valuers apply these figures then to all the values. 
It is analogous to the share market. The fact that some shares are changing hands today at, say, 100 each does not mean that the other 5 million shares are worth $100 each. The market and the rate of turnover will soon determine their true value. If all shareholders decided to sell their shares they most certainly would not all get S100 each. Many think they are worth $100 until they try to sell them. If there is only a small turnover they will get $100. The same conditions apply to land. If everybody tried to cash in and sell land at the going land value the demand and supply forces would cause the price of land to come down. That is why I make the point that land is not like motor cars, oranges or apples. The rate of turnover is so low that in fact it is a false figure in terms of the overall value of all land. The fact that 2% of wheat land is changing to new ownership per annum does not mean that the other 98% has the same average value per acre as the 2%. The studies made on this subject by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and by other authorities overseas, for example, show that if there is one thing which has a false value today it is land. 
I happen to have technically supervised the wheat survey of 1962 by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics so 1 think I know something about valuations. Perhaps the honourable member did not know that. The point is that you cannot deduce the value of people's properties from the value placed on a few farms selling in a particular area at a point of time. For example, in the electorate of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  2% of land on an average - if the Commonwealth average applies there - changed hands each year before the present crisis. 
This is the point. This is exactly what I am illustrating. Suddenly with increased supply and market conditions as they are today we find that land prices sometimes goes down by 50%. They cannot: fall 100% because that would be down to zero. This is an important thing. 
Therefore land values, as has been said, are completely fallacious figures. They cannot go up and down 50% if they represent a true figure. 
That is right. As has been pointed out one of the burdens of estate tax is this aspect of fragmentation of properties. Too often we see a highly efficient property that has been built up by family labour and is using its resources efficiently in terms of either physical or economic criteria and then because of probate or death duty there is a break up in the partnership which causes the property to be sold or often to be split up. There is then the strong possibility of having an inefficient use of resources iri terms of the first use because the property is too small, or the 2 or 3 properties into which it is divided are too small in terms of fixed capital. I see this problem in the sugar districts in my own electorate. Farmers have to purchase capital equipment such as harvesters and in so doing are burdened with probate or estate taxes and are often forced to subdivide a bit of land and sell it to someone else to pay the taxes and the farms frequently become inefficient. Farmers are forced by taxation to become inefficient. Surely this type of legislation is actually defeating the purpose. On the one hand the Government says that farmers must get bigger in order to survive - some Government speakers have said this - but on the other hand taxes are increased by inflation and the farms often become smaller so that the farmers can pay their taxes when they die. An anomaly exists here. 
It would seem that there has to be a radical change in the time honoured and traditional policies of Australian agriculture, and this matter should be one of national priority. One aspect with which we are dealing today is an alleviation or remission with respect to probate but, as was asked by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, has the Government really made a study of the burden of taxes on properties - not only probate but local authority rates and taxes? Local government authorities are being starved of funds and burdens are placed on properties in the form of rates and taxes. The Federal Government seems incapable of understanding that Australia's  present agricultural policies are outdated and financially unsound. This is illustrated by the mounting crisis which is spreading throughout rural Australia arid is characterised by organised marches and protest meetings of farmers and rural workers. When trade unionists march they are called Communists. When farmers march they are evidently heroes. The Opposition supported the farmers in their protest march held recently in Melbourne. The farmers have legitimate problems and it seems to me that the Government has continuously ignored them. I suppose that with the exception of beef and sugar all major export rural industries are in a serious economic condition today, with the future looking more serious rather than better. Alleviating the burden of probate taxes on the estates of primary producers will assist rural producers a little but the main beneficiaries of this legislation for estate tax remissions will be tha very large concerns, the very large grazing companies. Estate tax is a progressive tax which tends to reduce the size of the farm and farm efficiency. Estate tax, especially probate, as I said before, seriously penalises farms of moderate sizes which are in fact frequently using their resources efficiently. 
I for one refuse to accept the criticism that has been levelled in the newspapers that the primary producers are getting preferential treatment in regard to this alleviation of probate tax. My reason for this is that farms are in quite a different category from companies and firms because they are unincorporated businesses. They are family farms in the main and they are quite different structurally. As we well know no 2 farms are the same. The person who is born and bred and works his apprenticeship on a farm and who knows the area well, be it a wheat farm or a property in the beef cattle area in the Northern Territory, must have gained through experience some advantage over someone coming onto the property for the first time. It is desirable to try to retain experienced people on farms rather than to force them off. The burden of estate tax on farms causes considerable capital erosion which weakens the producing capacity of farms. Although measures such as estate tax remissions are helpful, the overall problem of uncontrolled rising costs must be squarely faced by the Government. Because of inflation the estate tax is in fact increasing, like income tax. The more the inflation - except when there is a recession in primary industry - the greater the indirect taxes which contribute to the cost price squeeze. There is a limit to the degree of productivity increases which can be achieved to offset cost increases. As 1 said before, the economic balance between primary and secondary industry in this country is dangerously out of hand. We do not seem to be able to get it into the head of the Government that this serious imbalance is starting to show in a very dangerous fashion. 
In the last 5 years the increase in the gross national product of the non-farm sector has been 40%, or an average of 8% per annum. The increase in the gross national product of the farm sector - the rural sector - has been 5% or 1% per annum. If we take costs into account we actually find a decrease or a negative figure for the farming sector in the last 5 years. Anyone who wants any proof of that can get it from White Papers. In Australia we have a booming non-farm sector and a stagnant farm sector as shown officially by figures. Estate duties and probate taxes are certainly not helping to achieve a measure of relief. In general, with the exception of sugar and beef, not only the farms but also the rural districts are encountering some of their worst financial problems since the depression 40 years ago. It is not just the farmer - it is also the services in farm towns, and in some cases large towns, which are dependent on the prosperity of the farmer. 
It is necessary to have a look at the structure of primary industry in the world because this structure is changing quite rapidly. We have seen a transition from the old laissez-faire days to days of high protectionism. We are now at a stage where it is the affirmed policy of developed countries to make their countries self-sufficient in primary industry. This means that organisations such as the European Economic Community and countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom are making radical changes in policy which in fact give high protection to primary industry in order to make themselves self-sufficient. It is imperative that Australia look at this problem before it is too late and change its policies. On the one hand Australia has a highly protected secondary industry and on the other hand some primary industries are protected while others are practically not protected. As I have said before, the position is becoming out of balance, as we can see from the figures. Other countries have recognised that definite production controls have to be associated with financial measures. We are seeing that now in respect of wheat. Perhaps the best example of all and the most regulated is sugar. 
I just want to clarify the point that I was making at the second reading stage about the incidence of the increase in land values. I quote two instances that have been given to me from an area close to where the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  lives at Jackson. A survey that was carried out shows that on the property in question there has been a 600% increase in estate values in the last 20 years. To illustrate the severity of this, on a property worth S200,000, consisting of $160,000 realty and $40,000 personalty, the State duties are $37,640 and the federal duties are $29,582, making a total of $67,222. 
1 just wanted to make the point that increases in land values have caused tremendous increases in estate duty. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has the Government refused to equip a spotter aircraft to be used in conjunction with the Meteorological Bureau in order to provide more accurate information on the wind velocity and intensity of cyclones. 
If so, why. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will he table in Parliament the official report given to him by the Bureau of Meteorology on Cyclone 'Ada' from which he produced his public statement that North Queensland received adequate warning of the intensity of the cyclone. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the radar equipment located along the north Queensland coast which is used by the Meterological Bureau cannot provide accurate information on the wind velocity of cyclones. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that official Meteorological Bureau weather forecasts broadcast from radio 4MK. Mackay seven hours after cyclone 'Ada' had demolished Hayman Island and other tourist resorts with winds approaching the equivalent of a tornado were consistently stating that the cyclone had winds of 40 to 50 knots. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: ls it a fact that the Mackay Meteorological Bureau cannot officially provide weather forecasts to local police, local radio and television stations, even in an emergency, as this information must first be forwarded to Brisbane for analysis and to enable a statement to be issued in Brisbane for transmission back to Mackay. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: ls it a fact that seriously incorrect weather forecasts of 40 to 50 knots for the wind velocity associated with Cyclone 'Ada' resulted in boats being taken to sea and mcn losing their lives and that if a more accurate forecast of the intensity of the cyclone had been given, many of the boats which had been taken to sea would have been beached instead. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What was the reason for the breakdown of Civil Defence Services in the Mackay district during Cyclone 'Ada'. 
Under what conditions has the Civil Defence Service authority to take positive action in an emergency. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the establishment of an Australian Institute of Marine Science to be located at Townsville in Queensland. It makes formal provision for the detailed planning of the functions and powers of the Institute. As the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said in his second reading speech, the provision of an Austraiian Institute of Marine Science in the tropics, particularly because of the various oceans which surround Australia, will make a most important contribution to both fundamental and applied science, not only in Australia but in the world. It is clear that one of the great virtues of the establishment of the Australian Institute of Marine Science particularly at Townsville, the gateway - one might say - as regards university work, to the 
Great Barrier Reef. The James Cook University of North Queensland, in conjunction with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and with such post-graduate institutions as this one will be. offers northern Australia a chance for research in the fundamental and applied fields that it has never had before. 
I know that from this side of the House there have been over the years tremendous pressures exerted on the Government to establish an institute of marin science in the field of marine biology in particular. My colleague,  Senator Felix  Dittmer, has for many years been in the forefront of the plea for assistance to establish such an institute. It would seem that the Government has finally decided to establish it. The Great Barrier Reef, located in the area which the Institute will serve, is destined to become one pf the richest tourist centres and one of Australia's greatest permanent assets for earning international income. I believe that the Reef zone in addition to its priceless value as an Australian asset will emerge as one pf the world's leading marine science research laboratories. In fact the biological and physical mysteries of the Great Barrier Reef itself and its contiguous waters and the life on the continental shelf adjacent to the Reef are a challenge which I am sure is eagerly awaiting the world's top marine scientists. As I said before, both fundamental and applied research will accelerate the knowledge which is greatly wanted with respect to the Great Barrier Reef area and I am sure it will contribute a lot to solving the mysteries of the ecology of the reef systems and the surrounding waters. 
Some honourable members will remember that some years ago an application was made to mine a section of the Reef near Innisfail. The application was to mine what was called dead coral. It was pointed out by learned scientists who made first-hand investigations of this area and objected in the Warden's Court to the application for mining that there was no such thing in their opinion, which was backed by scientific evidence, as a dead reef. Although there was evidence of substantial amounts of limestone it soon became clear to those who studied this phenomenon that the dead reef, or the dead coral, was still a vital and integral part of the living reef  and to damage the so-called dead part of the reef would in fact disturb the ecological balance of the Great Barrier Reef itself. One could go further and say that if the balance is disturbed there is the strong possibility of the tidal systems of the Great Barrier Reef being also of such a nature and of such power that the whole structure of the Reef itself and the living side of the coral could be disturbed. This could have a cumulative effect and damaging seas could come onto the coasts of the protected inland areas behind the Reef. Those living there, like myself, know how great an asset the Barrier Reef is not only in terms of its value to the tourist industry but also of its tremendous importance to the northern coast of Queensland. If anything upsets the ecological balance of the Great Barrier Reef there would be a tremendous difference in the shape of the north Queensland coast. 
There is no surf in this area as people in the southern States know surf, except when we have the south-east prevailing wind. We do not have the surf as honourable members know it in the south because we are protected by the Barrier Reef itself. The Barrier Reef zone is an integral factor in the proposed Federal legislation to assert ownership and control by the Commonwealth over territorial waters and the continental shelf. At least, the Opposition believes it is. As such, the Bill we are now considering is complementary, one might say, to that legislation in that it actually heightens the Commonwealth's responsibility in the fields of marine research, marine biology and the associated physical sciences fundamental to any programme of conservation and development. I believe that, as far as the Barrier Reef is concerned, conservation must march hand in hand with development. Fundamental to that is the Institute of Marine Science in the fields of fundamental or basic research and in the application of that basic or fundamental research so that the conclusions of the hypotheses can be translated into commercial application. 
Although many people would like to see the Barrier Reef left untouched, undeveloped, Australia has an obligation to share this asset with the rest of the world. The best way to do that is through positive steps for tourist development and positive steps for the development of natural resources keeping in mind all the time the great need for the conservation of the Reef and the contiguous areas. I believe this is one of the great virtues of research. I do not believe there should be any attempt to spoil or damage the major reef areas unless bodies like the Institute of Marine Science or those concerned with postgraduate research or applied research in the geological or biological fields have at least been able to express scientific opinions as to what the effects of a particular development project will be. I think this would be one of the main purposes of the Institute. It is not just some type of learning setup where people go along and do a master's thesis or a Ph.D. thesis in a particular field and leave the area to go overseas or somewhere else. I hope it will not be that. I hope that the Institute will be closely integrated with the development of the area and that the scientists who work there will stay in the north. Too often we see scientists go to an advanced institute of learning just to get a higher degree and then immediately leave the area. It is hoped that the Institute of Marine Science will attract overseas scientists of high repute. I believe that it will, because the Barrier Reef is unique in the world. It is the largest structure which has been formed by living organisms. As I said before, its ecological balances must be protected in reef areas because of their great importance to the entire reef zone. 
It was my intention tonight to deal with some scientific aspects of what I believe the work of the Institute would entail. This was particularly in respect to the measurement of proteins from the waters. I wanted to refer particularly to the fundamental research with respect to the food from the sea which can then be translated into fertilisers and so forth. However, most of the notes that I had have been left upstairs, because I did not intend to speak on this Bill till later tonight. But I am sure that the more important jobs the Institute will do will involve not only work which will protect as well as enable the development of the Great Barrier Reef zone but will also involve fundamental work with respect to measurement of the wealth of the sea, particularly in the field of food, because the sea is a tremendous source of food, of protein and of energy and fertilisers. 
As the Minister has said, in his second reading speech, there will be a great deal of work concerned with marine environment. Tt is also expected that there would be work carried out with respect to the Crown of Thorns. The Crown of Thorns is causing a lot of controversy in the Barrier Reef areas. In my area of Mackay in Queensland it is a very rare thing to see the Crown of Thorns. In fact, very few people have actually seen a Crown of Thorns in this area. Even in the areas where they are more plentiful - at Cairns and Innisfail - it is a very strange thing that the fishermen or people living there for years will tell you that in some years they are in plague proportions and then the following year it is difficult to find this pest. They are analagous to a grasshopper plague. They seem to come and go. However, according to scientists like  Dr Endean  they are capable of doing tremendous damage. 
One of the reasons why the Government has introduced this Bill to set up an Institute of Marine Science, and why the Opposition supports it, is to get value for money. I have mentioned some of the factors involved in research but I am sure also that the Government hopes that this move will lead to a further development of the area. I would say that there is no permanent asset in Australia which, in world terms, has greater value. The Great Barrier Reef has far greater value than all the minerals or oils that we can find in Australia at the present time. This research is necessary because the Great Barrier Reef is not an inexhaustible asset. We have to make certain that the Reef and its surroundings remain as they are and that nothing happens to them. I have referred to the question of the best way to develop the Great Barrier Reef. Is it by mining? Is it by oil drilling? Is it to do nothing? Or is it by means of encouraging the tourist industry? I have mentioned that hand in hand with research there has to be development in order to let people see this unique wonder we are so fortunate to have on our doorstep. We have to be able to integrate tourist facilities with the marine research being carried out. We have to integrate the great airlines or the air routes of the world with those of the north in order to let people see this great phenomenon, the Great Barrier Reef. 
The Minister for Education and Science is aware that one of the planks of the Australian Labor Party policy is the establishment of an international airport at Townsville. This should be done. At present tourists who want to see the Barrier Reef, people who rank it as the No. 1 tourist attraction in Australia - international surveys have revealed that this is so - have to fly to Sydney, mainly, then to Brisbane and to Townsville or Mackay and back again to Sydney to get another international flight out of Australia. Tourists object to having to do this. There is no reason why there could not be an international airport at Townsville with feeder flights to Cairns, Mackay, Rockhampton and Gladstone, all centres feeding the Barrier Reef. Of course this will come in time. It certainly will if there is a change in government. 
It might come about quicker than the honourable member thinks. The Opposition supports this Bill. It is sorely needed and should have been introduced years ago. My notes in connection with this Bill are upstairs and I can only quote from memory but 1 think the former Prime Minister of Australia,  Sir Robert  Menzies, said, when this proposition was first put forward, that he would give it no priority. I am subject to challenge over that statement but I think that basically I am right. It was not given priority 5 or 6 years ago when it was first put forward. lt can confidently be expected that this proposed Institute will lead the world in tropical research, as will the James Cook University of North Queensland. Both the Institute of Marine Science and the University at Townsville are specialising in tropical research. The university is specialising in such fields as tropical engineering and some aspects of tropical medicine, in the husbandry of beef cattle and their environment in tropical areas - breeds with such as zebu or Brahmin blood - all in association with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in Townsville. There is this great march of science. All the disciplines which are so closely associated with the development of northern Australia are centred there. Research workers are conferring with each other, swapping ideas, learning from their research and experience. The great knowledge being gathered in the tropical areas is being passed on to workers in associated areas in other countries analogous to northern Australia. This work will also bring to Australia scientists who want to do their work in the northern areas. They will come to this area. 
This Bill is a step in the right direction. I believe it is of great importance for the development of one of our greatest assets, the Great Barrier Reef. Obviously 1 have not dealt with the other warmer sea areas such as those around New Guinea and the north west of Western Australia. However, they are relevant. Although the work of the Institute will be centred in Townsville it will not be confined to that area, lt will be concentrated on the Great Barrier Reef but there will be basic work, fundamental and applied research, carried out in other areas of Australia. Some people have suggested that this Institute should be established not at Townsville but in some other area. This is a matter of opinion. I think it is being established in the right place. It will be in an area where there are tremen.dous problems. There are problems associated with oil drilling in the area contiguous to the Great Barrier Reef. I do not want to get into that controversy. However, the biological, geological and other research which the Institute will undertake is needed to throw  more  light on whether it is safe to drill in the Great Barrier Reef area. It is essential that research be married to practice; that before there is any development which could damage areas of the Reef, scientists are consulted fully in order to get the great benefit of the hypotheses and results of the research which will flow from the Institute. As I said before, this is a good Bill. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister and refer to the sudden emergence, after 20 years of silence, of the Liberal Party's policy on the rural economy and, as this is an official statement, I assume that it has the full backing of the Prime Minister. 1 ask: ls the Prime Minister aware that the federal rural policy in essence condemns the failure of this Government to assume a positive role of leadership in primary industry? ls he aware that this policy is in open conflict with important Government decisions, such as irrigation development, and that it is diametrically opposed to the whole backbone of Country Party policies on subsidies? Finally, does not this document on Liberal Party policy on primary industry provide the stark truth that rural industries in Australia are in a shocking mess due to inept Government leadership and policy? 
I will be brief because 1 understand that arrangements have been made to allow honourable members on both sides of the Parliament to take part in welcoming the Queen on her arrival at the airport. As far as the spirit of the debate is concerned, I think it is essential that some points ought to be put forward from this side of the House. We have listened to two honourable members from the Liberal Party speak on a problem which is of importance to primary industry. I remind both honourable members that they are also members of a Government which has been in power for over 20 years. It seems to be the common practice of many honourable members on the Government side to criticise Government policies implicitly, and often explicitly, outside of the Parliament and then they do nothing in the Parliament to show their disapproval when it comes to a vote. This practice is becoming more and more evident as more primary industries experience trouble. It is also becoming more obvious that something critical has to be done. If the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  feels so strongly about some of the problems that he has mentioned, I would suggest that he take more constructive action and show what he feels in the House when votes are taken. 
I also remind the Government of the pledge given by the Australian Country Party at its meeting here just prior to the start of this session of the Parliament. I would like to read portion of the report which came from that meeting. This was not denied, so I assume it is correct. The report states: 
The Australian Country Party will adopt a 'get tough' attitude in an attempt to get governmental approval for policies designed to ameliorate the  plight of primary producers. In the parliamentary session to begin on March 3, it will apply 'a new measure of determination and boldness in following measures of support' for primary producers. 
This is the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  at the pre-election meeting of the Country Party. 
lt was a statementstatement' being in inverted commas. The important point about it is this: What will the Government do about it? Where is the evidence of this tough attitude that the Country Party is supposed to adopt? There has been no evidence of it so far. All we. hear is the honourable members on the Government side complaining about the plight of primary industries. Why do those honourable members not do something about it? In a manifesto supplied to all rural industries, the Liberal Party has said that it will take positive action to show leadership. The lack of action by the Liberal and Country Parties is a direct condemnation of their leadership. This statement about showing positive leadership is in black and white if anybody wants to read it. Why does the Government not fulfil its role and show some positive leadership, if that is the policy of the Liberal Party? This is the first Liberal Party policy on primary industries that I have seen. As I said in a question 1 asked, it is a condemnation of policy in regard to irrigation. But the policies have been decided by Cabinet and voted upon by the people who are now condemning the Government. 
I would like to make a couple of comments regarding the cost-price squeeze which was mentioned by the honourable member for Macarthur. We on this side of the House recognise the importance, and the seriousness of the cost-price squeeze to the major primary industries, particularly the wool industry. What action does the Government intend to lake in this regard? All of the evidence shows quite clearly that the woo) industry is fully entitled to fi nan,cial assistance in one way or another, lt is entitled to it on the ground of equity. The honourable member for Macarthur mentioned the cost of tariffs. However, nobody has accurate figures. The only professional attempt to evaluate the cost of tariffs in relation to primary industries in Australia was clone by the Vernon Committee. 
The Vernon Comittee showed quite clearly on the best estimates it could make that the total amount of subsidies paid to primary industries was a mere drop in the ocean compared to the value of the tariff protection given to major secondary industries. lt showed clearly in the estimates it made that the total value of the effective tariffs for the motor vehicle industry and the capital goods construction industries of Australia is about double the total value of subsidies paid to primary industries of Australia. We could take into account the benefits to primary industry from the embargo on sugar, for example and admittedly the industry received a major benefit. All the evidence shows that the wool industry is entitled to financial assistance. It does not matter whether it is called a compensation scheme, a cost compensation scheme, a tariff compensation scheme, or a compensation scheme for growth and inflation, the point that stands out is that the wool industry is entitled to financial assistance. 
One argument put forward is that minerals will be the biggest earner of export income for Australia. This is right, but let it be made very clear, as the honouarble member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said recently, that we should nol talk in gross figures all the time. Over 90% of . the wool produced in Australia is exported andpractically every dollar earned is net income to the nation. What is the figure when one takes into account the value of dividends or the actual outgoings of gross income earned from minerals? This is the real figure, lt shows one thing, namely, the great" value of primary industry to our export income which aids the growth of Australia. To put it starkly, if anything further happens in respect of prices or loss of production in the wool industry, the balance of payments position will be precarious. 
The more quickly the Government realises 2 facts about wool the better it will be. First, there is a demand for wool which is in quite a different category from wheat or foods. The elasticity coefficients of all the studies show that there is a demand for wool. However the problem is related to prices. Are we gelling the true price for our wool? Are prices being affected by buying pies or cartels, for example, from Japan? This is the question that has to be ironed out. Nobody in this Parliament can prove that the Australian wool industry is not entitled to financial assistance. If it is good enough to give indirectly, tremendous benefits to the motor car industry, the capital goods industry and practically every other construction industry in Australia, it is important - 
 Then why does the Government not do something about it? It has been in office for  20  years but what has the Government done about the wool industry except talk? lt is important that this point be noted. The honourable member for Macarthur spoke about the dairy industry. He did not make any concrete proposals or suggest that producers should get out or remain in the industry. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  claims that he advised dairy producers  5  years ago to get out of dairy production. He said he did this; apparently he did. By way of interjection the Minister for Trade and Industry, who is the Deputy Prime Minister, said that he advised dairy producers in  1952  to get out of dairy production. I am not too certain about the force of those points of view but what does concern me, and must concern everybody else, is that dairy production is increasing and an increasing proportion of dairy products must be sold on the export market. That is a most unsatisfactory market, and it will get worse and not better. This will reduce, through equalisation, the average price to Australian dairy producers. What is the proprietary of dairy producers continuing to increase production? Surely the Government has to grasp this nettle firmly. There will bc a calamity before long because, as I said before, unlike wool we just cannot sell dairy produce. We can sell wool and if we doubled our production of wool we could still sell every bale, certainly at a price, in competition with synthetics. 
In conclusion I point out  I  matter related to the cost-price squeeze. In the last  15  years the prices paid for farm materials and labour have increased by over  40%.  At the same time the average price received by the rural sector has declined. Beef prices have risen, but the average for the rural sector has declined. The primary industries have responded magnificently in terms of production in that period. Production has increased by  50%.  But when we take the gross national product of the primary industries and relate that to real prices and take into account costs, we find that the average rate of growth in the primary industries is less than  1%  per annum. Let us compare that with the industries which are heavily protected by tariffs. The average rate of increase in those industries has been about  40%  over  5  years, or  8%  per annum. These are the figures that show the dangerous imbalance between primary industry and secondary industry and. the need for positive action to stimulate primary producers, particularly those in the wool industry, into further increased production so that we can earn greater export income. 
by leaveThe substance of the statement by . the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is, of course, welcomed by the Queensland Government but more so by the graziers and farmers in the drought stricken areas of western and south western Queensland. One must say, however, that this is rather a belated decision after the very many forceful requests that have been made since the end of last year. A point which I should like to make to the Prime Minister is that whoever wrote his statement has written it in a very loose way because it is most ambiguous in the sense that it is difficult to understand from it just who is a grazier and who is a farmer. 
I have received a telegram from the Grain Growers Association of Queensland. It is signed by  Mr Price,  a man who is well respected in grain growing circles. It asks for assistance by way of further drought relief for Queensland grain growers. It reads as follows: 
Association alarmed State Premier's statement no further drought relief to Queensland grain growers contrary Department of Primary Industry report crop prospects grim certain areas. Continuous drought still exists much south eastern, western and northern grain belt. Appreciate your immediate sympathetic consideration. 
I want to ask the Prime Minister whether this relief will cover wheat farmers also because it is not clear from this statement. The only time he mentioned farmers was in the last sentence. Will this cover wheat fanners, or is it confined to only sheep and cattle people in, say, the south-west corner or other drought areas of Queensland? 
There are farming areas in western Queensland that are just as seriously hit by the drought as some of the grazing areas in the far west of Queensland. I refer particularly to some of the wheat farms. Therefore it is important to know whether this decision will also cover wheat farmers. It has not been made clear in the statement. This information cannot be gathered from the statement. I assume that the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  or  someone  else to follow will make it quite clear. There are plenty of people other than those on sheep and cattle properties who are seriously affected by drought in various parts of Queensland. I said before - and I repeat it because the Prime Minister might not have heard me - there is ambiguity in this statement in relation to some points. No details have been given. 1 refer, for example, to the statement that the Commonwealth Government is prepared to reimburse the State for carry on and re-stocking loans. What terms and conditions are to apply here? If the State is lending money to graziers and farmers under certain conditions, does this mean that the Commonwealth is also lending to Queensland, or is it making an interest free loan or making a grant? 
There are some grants, too. That is only one point. I am mentioning the points that are raised with members of Parliament representing areas affected by drought. We have raised this point in the Parliament because we want to know what the statement means. I defy anybody to explain the statement that in making a loan the State authorities should satisfy themselves that the applicant has a reasonable chance of recovery. &lt;Nobody can forecast how long a- drought will last in some of these areas. It has been going on with intensity for 3 or 4 years in some areas. No-one can make a decision on whether a person will recover or not.' I hope this is not taken as literally as it is expressed here because it is essential that some of these graziers and farmers get assistance immediately without being subject to too stringent an examination to see- whether they will recover or not. Some of them are past recovery. If some of these carry on  loans  had been made available more liberally last year, for example, a lot of them would not have been past the point pf no recovery at the present time. 
I find it hard to understand why the Prime Minister should say that he understands the State's objective. The Commonwealth Government should know what the State's objective is. ,Never mind about understanding it. That leaves an element of doubt, lt is essential that it. be made clear how this interest is to be capitalised and how redemption payments are to be made. It is quite possible that the Commonwealth does not understand because it has been difficult for graziers and others interested in this problem to understand what the State Government means in this respect. I would like to commend the Government on liberalising the re-stocking provisions with respect to stores, because it is quite clear that some graziers in the fattening areas of the south-west channel country, where store cattle are the main source pf livelihood, because of the integration of breeding properties, are not going to restock with breeding cattle. When the channels flood they will stock quickly with store cattle to make maximum utilisation of existing herbages such as parakeila and others. These are points that I believe should be clarified. 
Something should have been done about rates years ago. In practically every area of Queensland they have been progressively increasing, despite the drought. It was pointed out during the debate on estate duties that people from the cities are coming into the country to invest money and to buy properties. They are causing the value of properties to increase. This is reflected in the local valuations for shires. Wool prices, for example, have been going down or have remained static and property values are decreasing at an alarming rate in drought areas of western Queensland. It is essential that some other revaluation process be used and during the drought period there should be a complete alleviation from rates which have reached almost saturation point on some small properties. 
I also ask the Prime Minister to say when he will allow a debate on the amendments to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act to take place. This is of concern to the graziers. This amendment will allow surplus wheat to be sold for stock feed at reduced prices. It is a fact that this can happen now because complementary legislation has been passed in most States. Nevertheless, it is time that this amending Bill was debated in the Parliament because it is essential to extend the supply of fodder and surplus grains to drought stricken areas. The Opposition believes that the amount of $1.45 is far too high for surplus grain that cannot be sold. This is another problem. 
They are the main points 1 would like to make. Wheat farmers are in the grip of the drought just as much as graziers are. In addition, the proposal should be retrospective. With regard to the transport of stock, it is important to know whether the scheme will apply to those farmers and graziers who have already restocked with store cattle, not breeding stock. It would be quite wrong for the Government suddenly to introduce legislation or a regulation or whatever is needed covering restocking in the future when in the last 6 months a lot of restocking has been taking place with other than breeding stock. Surely these people should be covered by the retrospective operation of the scheme. Those are the points that I would like to make.' On the whole, as I said before, this scheme is effective only for drought stricken producers, but it is rather belated. 
Approximately 2 weeks ago the Government introduced a debate in this House on the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. Now that the Moratorium has gathered a ground swell throughout Australia the Government, in the midst of the debate on one of the most important pie;es of legislation for the health of the people of Australia - the National Health Bill - has decided to postpone that debate and to reintroduce the debate on the Moratorium. The National Health Bill is 1 of the great measures we have been hearing about from this Government. It concerns the health of the people of this nation. But now we hear nothing but a smearing, rotten campaign by the Liberal-Country Party. Government against the Labor Party. This is the type of debate into which the Liberal-Country Party Government has allowed the Parliament to degenerate. It has reduced the standards of the Parliament to the lowest levels of political filth that we have ever witnessed in this House. We have seen before and we now see again the consistent kicking of the so-called Communist can. 
The Acting Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  who is the Leader of the Australian Country Party, one would have thought would have taken the opportunity tonight to talk about the serious plight of primary industry in Australia. But with a fanatical gleam in his 70-year-old eye he told us about the Communist can. So desperate has the Liberal-Country Party Government become that it has to delay the important economic measures of this nation to give us a dissertation to try to associate the Labor Party with the so-called Communists. I wonder how many honourable members on the opposite side have ever seen or heard or met a Communist. The Attorney-General has a grin on his face like a hyena. Going by his dress he looks like one, too. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member must not make such comments. 
1 am paying him a compliment.  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I was saying that what the Government, and particularly the Acting Prime Minister, has attempted to do is to smear every decent Australian who has taken an intelligent view on the IndoChina war, as it is today, and to try to associate them with the Communists. The Acting Prime Minister, when he finished speaking, sat in the corner of the front bench with a grin on his face. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  described him aptly as an actor. As I said before, he is a 70-year-old actor. I ask: What has this great man, the Acting Prime Minister, the Leader of the Country Party, contributed tonight? Let us look at his record in relation to the Communists. He is the person who formulated the agreements and policy to sell wheat and food to the Communists. He is the one who is sponsoring the selling of wheat to the Communist Chinese. They in turn are sending it to the Communists in North Vietnam who are killing Australian and American troops. This is what the Liberal-Country Party Government is doing. 
Yes, and that is the difference. They do it for a dollar. Yet they get up in this Parliament with a sanctimonious attitude and try to condemn decent Australians for taking an intelligent view on Indo-China and the Vietnam war. Did the Acting Prime Minister or the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  mention anything about the 4 boys and girls who were shot dead in America because they dared to dissent about the filthy war in Indo-China? Not a word was mentioned. Look at them grinning and laughing at the present time. One would expect that. Four boys and girls were shot dead because they dared to dissent against the action of the  President  of the United States of America in sending American troops to invade Cambodia. If any honourable members looked at television tonight and saw the father of the girl who was shot and listened to what he had to say, they could only bear shame for being associated with the feelings of this Liberal-Country Party Government and its sanctimonious attitude in the chamber tonight. 
I raise another point with respect to the Government's sales of wheat to the murderous Communists, as somebody described them here tonight. The Government is prepared to sell food to Communist China which in turn sells that food or gives it to the Communists in North Vietnam who are killing our troops. The Government sells it at prices less than those at which they will sell it to owners of starving stock in Australia. This is the Government that stands before the Australian people and utters this type of tripe about Communists. As I asked before, where are all these Communists? I would like to know how many Communists the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has ever met in Australia in his fife. Why does he not get up and tell the truth? He has probably never seen one in his entire life, let alone met one. It was quite interesting to note that a member of the Nazi Party has now decided to hand out literature backing the Government's stand in Vietnam and Cambodia. We all know the association of the Liberal Party with the Fascist Party. One has only to look at the faces of some of the Liberal members to recognise the association. 
The debate tonight happens to be a debate on supply, a debate on the economic and financial measures of this country; but it has degenerated into a kicking of the Communist can. The Government does not like receiving some of its own medicine. This kicking of the Communist can around the country is done by a Government that is selling food to Communists who are selling it to the North Vietnamese who are killing Australian and American troops. This is the type of hypocritical government we are faced with in this country. Is it any wonder that the combined vote given to the Australian Labor Party was 300,000 more than the combined vote given to the Liberal and Country parties in the last election? When the next election is held we will see that 300,000 so significantly increased that this hypocritical Government will not be here with the majority it has today. Instead of attempting to smear and instead of making such a shocking and disgusting display as it has made tonight the Government should have been hanging its head in shame at being associated with actions of the American Government. I have mentioned it before and I say it again. Those 4 decent boys and girls were shot dead. The honourable gentleman who was so magnificently castigated by  Mr Chamberlain  does not like to hear what I am saying. ] mentioned earlier that this debate was on supply. One would have thought that the Leader of the Country Party and Acting Prime Minister would have taken the opportunity to speak on matters relating to the crises in the country areas. He did not do so. However, we had the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is the member for Wannon and a wool producer, taking the Labor Party apart because it apparently dares to suggest that the people who support the Moratorium should march through the streets of the capital cities. The same gentleman - the Minister for Defence - did not say one word about the 10,000-odd farmers who marched through the streets in Melbourne a month or so ago. He did not say anything about the time when he got onto the truck in the park and he was booed and treated with contempt by the farmers of Victoria. They occupied the streets very effectively and I am quite certain that the people tomorrow will occupy the streets in a similar fashion. 
I intend to devote the rest of my time to matters relating to the tariff and matters relating to primary industry. One would have thought that at some time in this debate tonight we would have at least had some discussion on the crisis in primary industry and the steps which this Government intends to take in the future to alleviate the problems, but all that we have heard about, as has been usual in the last few weeks, is buck passing and waiting until the industries of Australia come to this Government with some plan. We are still waiting and while we wait inflationary growth and cost of production continue to increase. The tar fT originated as a means of raising revenue by taxing imports into Australia. It was in fact 1 of the main avenues for raising revenue. Economically it was exactly the some as excise tax, sales tax, income lax, wages tax, property tax or probate tax. In other words, it was indirect tax for raising revenue. It is now significant that as a revenue earner the tariff has declined relatively in proportion to the total amount of revenue collected in Australia. Another purpose of the tariff has been to conserve foreign exchange or to use as a technique to conserve foreign exchange by dampening down the inflow of imports. Another measure which has been commonly used is to generate employment by the tariff. This was used effectively after the depression. The Scullin tariff has been debated al length. This was primarily a tariff to generate employment. 
The tariff is a deliberate use of a high protection policy to stifle imports so that an infant industry can be established and then grow into a virile industry which might in turn export goods. Often, however, this type of use of the tariff can backfire. The simple use of a technique to provide high protection to an inefficient industry, an industry inefficiently using resources, can frequently mean a generation of further industries which use capital goods or their equivalent in imports so that the final result is that there is an overall increase in imports and it has defeated the prime purpose of that tariff. There is one basic factor, however, about a tariff. Tt causes an increase in costs in a similar manner to indirect tax. Irrespective of how one looks at a tariff and the various economic measures which have been utilised some sector of the economy gets hurt because directly and indirectly increases are caused in production costs or marketing costs. Over-use of tariff or improper use of tariff through the protection of inefficient use of resources can frequently lead to a serious imbalance in the economy. It transfers resources from efficient industries in terms of resource use to inefficient industries which under a free economy or a laissez-faire economy could not possibly survive or which with even a low level of protection could not survive. 
The point to which I now want to go is that there are many people in Australia who take great interest in knocking primary industry. Primary industry is subjected to attacks by those who seem to have various obsessions against the primary sector of the community and they usually base their obsessions on the quantitative or tangible figures given in the White papers or the 
Budget in relation to subsidies or bounties or hand-outs to primary industries. They say, for example, that the total annual figure made available to primary industries by way of bounty or subsidy could be in the vicinity of about $200m a year and this is in fact a subsidy to primary industries. But what they do not take into account is the effect of the tariff on secondary industry and how that can be measured in quantitative terms, both directly through increased costs and indirectly through the flow of the first prime movement through the economy. The best estimates that one can get on the effect of the net subsidy equivalent in relation to secondary industry shows that an estimate - rough as it is - is in the vicinity of $ 1,500m per annum, which is the value or the net equivalent of the subsidy to secondary industries. If we take the same calculations for the primary industries we will find that the total value to primary industry of subsidies and bounties, including embargoes, is about $270m per annum. This is the total subsidy and bounty equivalent as opposed to the net subsidy equivalent to secondary industry of approximately $l,500m. When we consider that 60% of our balance of payments, represented by export income, is derived from sales from the primary sector surely there is a good case for the provision of the equivalent of a tariff to efficient primary industries. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it seems that I have stressed this before in the Parliament but I do so again. [ consider there is a need for the establishment of a permanent independent Commonwealth agricultural authority to advise the Federal Government on the justification of the protection of export primary industries along the same lines as the Tariff Board operates in respect of secondary industries. 
Is that what the Rural Industry Board does? We have been saying this in this Parliament. I have said something about an equivalent to the tariff at least 4 times in the last 18 months. I said it in Western Australia recently. I am glad to know that is what the Rural Industry Board does because I have not been able to find what it means. In addition to the recommendations on the justification of levels of protectionism to efficient primary industries, such an independent authority would also recommend precise levels of bounty after a thorough examination of the marketing prospects for the industry concerned. Primary industries should be given at least equal treatment to the policies governing the provision of tariffs or hidden subsidies to secondary industries. 
The apparent indifference displayed by the community to the cost problem which is undermining the economy of the export primary industries is based more on ignorance than on any degree of intent. As I said before, it is estimated that the cash subsidy equivalent of the tariff to secondary industry is of the order of $l,500m annually and the cash equivalent of all payments and taxation concessions made to the primary industry as well as the val'ue of the equivalent of embargoes such as I have mentioned - sugar is an example - totals only $270m annually. As I have said, we should keep in mind the contribution that export primary industries make to the economy of Australia. Over 60% of export income is earned from primary industry. No-one can argue that the wool industry, for example, or the beef industry or sections of the dairy industry and the sugar industry, which are our main export industries, are not entitled to some compensatory finance equivalent to the disability caused by the tariff and other factors. 
The Government's encouragement of high tariff protection for manufacturing industries without any measure of prices control throughout Australia has resulted in continuous increases in the cost of production, particularly in the primary producing sector, and indirectly in living costs in Australia. Coupled with growth policies of full employment, particularly in the cities where most manufacturing industries are located, the high level of immigration and these inflationary characteristics are virtually wrecking many of the unprotected rural industries. 
The tragedy of the situation is that the financial stranglehold being exerted by the cost-price squeeze will worsen and in turn can only accelerate the death of small farms unless positive action is taken. The getbigorgetout policy of this Liberal-Country Party Government is to be condemned. The 
Government consistently refuses to accept the economic truth that high levels of tariff protection for manufacturing industries are causing serious cost disabilities to the export rural' industries. The best estimates available suggest that the direct and indirect cost disability suffered by the most important export rural industry, wool, is in the vicinity of 25% of total costs. The report of the Committee of Economic Enquiry, known as the Vernon Committee, and others worked out a figure of about 10% on cash costs: but allowing for the increases in costs and allowing for the total costs including imputed costs, this figure is now estimated to be around 20% disability allowance which is being suffered by the wool industry. 
The direct cost of tariff action affects the prices of farm products, spare parts and materials and the indirect costs are reflected in the wage structure and the general costs of materials and services. For example, the high wages that need to be paid to a man driving a transport truck are to a degree determined by the tariff protection related to the spare parts, the tyres and the component parts of that vehicle. The absurd situation which sees a Federal Government giving every encouragement to the growth of manufacturing interests and foreign controlled mineral development to the neglect and at the expense of the primary sector must be changed to allow at least a balanced economy. The progressive deterioration of the economic position of the primary sector - that is of farmers - calls for less buckpassing and the implementation of more positive action by the Government. The Australian export industries are powerless at present against the cancerous-like increases in costs which are destroying the economic heart of the once vital major rural industries. 
The latest Treasury data published only last week once again reveals the serious economic consequences for export rural industries as a result of inflationary measures and inflationary growth policies in this country. At present, of the export industries in Australia only beef and sugar enjoy some measure of economic satisfaction because the export prices of the two commodities are at reasonable levels and can offset to a degree the insidious increase  in  farm costs which are forever marching on. But both beef and sugar are walking an economic tightrope. Anyone who has spoken to the Americans who were out here in the last few days would know full well the intent, the pressure and the lobbying that are going on in America to try to cut down the level of beef exports from Australia to that country. We know what can happen and we have suffered. The sugar farmers of Australia, including those in my own electorate of Dawson, have suffered because of the insidious increase in farm costs on the one hand and the unrealistic collapse in some areas of world prices on the other hand. It is to be hoped that world prices in both of these industries continue at a satisfactory level. It is to be hoped that this Government will take action to stop the insidious increase in farm costs sweeping over this country. 
Some people will still argue that there is no such thing as a cost price squeeze in Australia. One has only to look at the published figures to see clearly that the stagnant sector of our economy today is the rural sector. No matter what index you take the same conclusion must be reached. Whether it is the percentage increase in the gross value of rural production or the net value after taking costs into account, all of the indicators show the very serious consequences flowing to the primary producers of this country. As I said earlier, the situation in the primary industries has degenerated because this Liberal-Country Party Government has failed to face up to the real issues confronting primary producers. I can imagine what the farmers of Australia were thinking tonight when they were listening to the Acting Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party, who failed to say a word about primary industries and the sufferings of small farmers. All he could do was kick the Communist can. This is what the Country Party thinks of the farmers of Australia. 
(Dawson) - I ask for leave to make a statement. 
I want to make quite clear the arrangement that was entered into between the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and myself last night. The Minister told me what he expected would take place in the Parliament this morning with regard to the tabling of these papers. He said that he did not expect that there would be any discussion on the matter. 1 agreed that it appeared to be a simple matter of tabling the papers. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  apparently without having informed the Minister for National Development of his intention, rose in his place this morning and asked for leave to make a statement. That leave was granted. I am sure that if the Minister had known that the honourable member was to make a statement he would have given me leave when I requested it this morning. The Leader of the Opposition,  (Mr Whitlam)  also made a statement by leave and then the Minister for National Development, who is in charge of the legislation, made a statement. I then rose to reply. That is the position. The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  probably was not aware of the background. As I said before, it has always been the practice that when a Government supporter is granted leave to make a statement a member of the Opposition is also granted leave. 
This has been a rather momentous morning. We have seen an ex-Minister of the Crown make statements which are virtually allegations about the conduct of this Government with respect to an important piece of legislation which has been introduced. I can speak with some authority on this matter and I want to make it quite clear that the ex-Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer, would not have taken this action unless he firmly believed he was right. I served under him, as his advisor in the Department of National Development, and I could not have wished to serve under a Minister with a higher degree of sincerity, dedication and integrity. The reasons why he resigned his portfolio are known only to him and to those with whom he has discussed the matter. But there is no doubt at all in my mind, and there can be no doubt in the minds of most people who believe in truth, that what he has said is the truth. There has been a deliberate breach of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States on this matter, and I will give proof of that statement in a few minutes. 
I should have thought that the documents tabled would have included letters that passed between the relevant State Ministers and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  or between the relevent State Ministers and the Minister for National Development. I shall shortly quote from a letter from the Minister of Mines in Victoria to the Minister for National Development which completely substantiates the assertion of the previous Minister for National Development that there has been a breach of an agreement. 
An agreement such as this can be made only with the full authority of the Cabinet. If the Minister for the Navy does not know that then he should do some homework, otherwise he will not be fit to be a Minister. 
I do know something about it. When a Cabinet Minister enters into an agreement or an undertaking with his counterparts in the State Governments he binds the Commonwealth on that agreement with the States. To my knowledge this has never been questioned. In all of my years as a senior member of the Commonwealth Public Service I have never seen an agreement broken after it had been entered into by a Cabinet Minister with 
State Ministers. It is of no use saying that it is not legally enforceable in a court of law. Governments do not act in that way. If a Prime Minister writes to a Premier and give. an undertaking, that undertaking is more binding than any decision given in a court of law. If a Cabinet Minister enters into an undertaking with State Ministers he binds the Commonwealth with the States. It does not matter what the Minister for the Navy says about this being a new Government. The point is that the agreement was entered into by the previous Cabinet which gave the then Minister for National Development full authority to do what he did. The Minister for National Development has stated that the previous Minister for National Development quoted from a letter from himself to the Prime Minister. I do not know whether that letter is included in these documents which have been tabled. 
I may have asked only for the correspondence but I think it is quite clear to everyone in this House that we asked for all the correspondence relevant to this situation. 
And I would  have  thought that all the correspondence relevant to the situation would have been tabled. 
The  ex-Minister for National Development said some very harsh things about  the  Commonwealth. He used words to the effect that it had reached a very low ebb in government.  This  is what he believes, and it  is  also what we of the Opposition believe, because there undoubtedly has been a breach of an agreement. I will quote from a letter which has not been included in the documents that have been tabled. It is dated 6th March 1970. It is a letter from the Victorian Minister of Mines,  Mr J.  C. M. Balfour, to the Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz.  It reads:  My dear Minister, 
I acknowledge receipt of your telegram and letter dated 2nd March 1970, relating to proposed Commonwealth legislation in respect of off-shore minerals other than petroleum. 
Tn reply, I wish to advise that the Victorian Government is deeply disturbed at the whole content of your letter, and particularly to the last paragraph in which, having earlier expressed the earnest hope that the Commonwealth and States will be able to continue to work in cooperation both in relation to petroleum and to other minerals you go on to indicate- 
That is, the Minister for National Development -  that you will send copies of the Bill and of your Second Reading speech as soon as these are available. 
Your Government's- 
That is, the Gorton Government -  expressed intention to go ahead and introduce legislation for the mining of minerals other than petroleum beyond the low water mark is totally unacceptable to Victoria, and if carried out will inevitably result in irreparable damage being done to Commonwealth-State relations in the field of mineral development. As you know, the Victorian Government is firmly committed to the principle of co-operation with your Government in relation to the exploration for and exploitation of these off-shore minerals but this co-operation cannot but be destroyed by the attitude taken by your Government in this matter. 
The next paragraph, in my opinion, supports what the Minister for National Development said: 
My understanding is that at the most recent discussion on off-shore minerals held in Canberra on 26th September 1969, it was contemplated that the Commonwealth Ministers present would refer the States proposals in this matter of offshore other than petroleum to the Federal Cabinet for consideration and that further discussion and consultation would take place as between the Commonwealth and the States before agreement was reached or a decision made in respect of legislation relating to the exploration and the exploitation of off-shore minerals other than petroleum. 
That is precisely what the honourable member for Farrer said. The Minister of Mines in Victoria continued: 
In view of your express desire that the high degree of co-operation that exists between the Commonwealth and States in relation to petroleum should be extended into the field of  other  minerals, I am most surprised that you propose to introduce the Commonwealth legislation without further discussion between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Yours faithfully, 

 C. M. BALFOUR, Minister of Mines. 
That letter, which was not tabled with the other documents, clearly shows that there has been a deliberate breach of an agreement entered into with the States by a Cabinet Minister acting with the full authority of the Federal Government. This deliberate breach of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States is to be deplored to the utmost by all members of this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? 
No. 
Will a member of the Opposition be granted leave to make a further statement? I ask the Leader of the House: If the Attorney-General is given leave may we have an assurance that an honourable member on this side will be given leave also? 
I would be the last person on this side of the House to deny the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  the right to make a short statement. If he has a contribution to make to the debate I see no reason why he should not be given the opportunity to make that contribution but it will mean, in effect, that this matter will develop into a debate. If the Attorney-General speaks 1 think the request of the honourable member for Dawson should be acceded to by the Government. If the Attorney-General speaks the Opposition should be entitled to a  speaker  in reply. I put this to the Leader of the House as a matter which should be considered in fairness to honourable members on this side of the House. 
I would have liked the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  to deal more with some of the points which the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  made, particularly in regard to the rate of interest. The honourable member for Lilley said that because this was the interest rate applicable to similar projects in other parts of Australia we have nothing to growl about. Just because this rate of interest has applied to projects in other areas it does not necessarily follow that it should apply to this one. 
In fact it has become very clear over the years that the Federal Government in financing development projects is adopting the role of some back alley money lender. For example, it is recognised that the Commonwealth loan for the reconstruction of the Mount Isa railway line had the toughest conditions of any loan negotiated between the Federal Government and a State. The interest bill on that capital loan of $34m is $23m, so Queensland's industry and taxpayers will have to pay to the Commonwealth a total of $57m. This was the point that the honourable member for Lang was making when talking about a revolving fund. If the Commonwealth Government charges a very high rate of interest, that money, when repaid by a State, should come back into the coffers and at least be put into a revolving fund so that it can be earmarked for use in further development. I think that most people will agree with this. There was a very large interest component in the Commonwealth loan for the development of the brigalow country. When assistance for beef roads was first negotiated and the Commonwealth first financed their construction there was an interest component with respect to the sealing. Some of this money - and I think the honourable member for Lilley would recognise this - comes from revenue. 
I am not arguing, and will not argue, about the specific level of interest rates, because one knows full well that in working out a benefit cost analysis the rate of interest is tremendously important in the economic justification of a project. With respect to the Ord River project, for example, by taking a high rate of interest as the discount factor one can get a completely different evaluation result than one gets by taking a low rate of interest. I think the honourable member for Lilley would agree with that. It is important in a benefit cost analysis in the determination of priorities to know what is the best rate of interest. I agree with him about priorities. In fact, it is quite interesting to hear an honourable member opposite suggesting that not enough thought is being given to priorities. I agree. I have been arguing on this line for some time. We should have a list of alternatives. If we had had before us, with respect to water, the Ord River project, the Nogoa project and the Bundaberg scheme together instead of having only one at a time - an ad hoc approach - perhaps there would have been a better measure of priorities with respect to investment. The same thing applies to other projects. 
As has been stated, interest rates are extremely important not only to the final cost of reticulated power, brigalow development or whatever the project may be. The interest rate charged by the Commonwealth to the States is most important to the amount of the repayments by the States to the Commonwealth. The honourable member for Lilley talked about the method cmployed by the World Bank to determine priorities. I believe also - and I have hammered this point - that the Federal Government can learn a lot from the techniques employed by the highly successful development teams of the World Bank. In Australia development projects are evaluated by experts from various government departments. Those people meet and formulate a report which is usually analysed by an interdepartmental committee, and after a lot of backfilling the report is finally formulated into a Cabinet submission. It was suggested by the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry that we should develop highly specialised teams to concentrate on development alone. In these teams would be people whose principal job was to evaluate development proposals and compare alternatives and give the Government the facts about the alternatives so that the Government could make up its mind which was the best proposition in which to invest funds on behalf of the people of Australia and in the best interests of Australia, taking into account of course the welfare of Australia and the commercial principles involved. If we did this we would have a better order of priorities than exists today. 
The ad hoc approach of the Federal Government to development in this country for over 20 years has not resulted in the best use of resources. There can be no doubt that in the allocation of Federal funds to the States for development the 2 most important criteria are the contribution that will be made to our balance of payments and the development of a region. The Federal Government must consider the ability of the project to earn export income and its ability to decentralise development. These criteria have been the backbone of practically every development project that has been financed by the Federal Government. After the credit squeeze in 1961 the Commonwealth financed the coal ports, beef roads and brigalow projects. Basic to these 3 projects was a consideration of export income earning capacity as weil as development or resources. This approach has flowed on in the various forms of Commonwealth assistance to the States for development projects. 
The same considerations apply to the power house at Gladstone. Export income is of vital importance to the Federal Government but of little real importance to the State of Queensland. As far as the Queensland Government is concerned, the great benefit of development there is that, firstly, it will bring in additional revenues and, secondly, it will promote development itself. This in turn, through the multiplier theory, will generate further development and further revenues. The estimated cost of the power house together with reticulation to the town of Gladstone is approximately 
SI 55m. That estimate, J understand, is based on 1968 prices, so the real cost today would probably be somewhat higher. The power house will have an approximate total installed generating capacity of 1,100 megawatts, and approximately 600 megawatts will be reserved by the Queensland Government for specific development in central Queensland. The amount of the Commonwealth financial assistance will of course depend on the total cost of the construction of the power house at Gladstone under the agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and Queensland. The agreement provides for a variation in the amount of financial assistance above or below $80m according to any variation which occurs in the total cost above or below $80m. This means therefore, that th: amount of financial assistance to the State of Queensland can be expressed as approximately 80/155ths of the total cost of the project. Tt is admitted that this can vary. lt is well known that before plans were made to develop a giant power house in central Queensland the Government of that State was giving serious consideration to the establishment of more thermal power stations in the area. It was recognised that the toy power houses - as I have called them many times - were simply not attract ing heavy industrialisation processes to that State. The so-called toy power houses did a good job for rural services and light industry but the greatest retarding factor in the development of heavy industry in central and north Queensland was the complete absence of abundant and relatively cheap power. That was the missing link. 
The development of the Weipa-Gladstone bauxite-alumina complex was the initial shock which triggered off a chain of development throughout Queensland. Until that point of time Queensland had various complexes such as Mount Isa and the copper refinery at Townsville, but it was not. until the integration of the huge bauxite deposits at Weipa and the alumina complex at Gladstone that the State received the initial shock which set off the chain reaction in development. The integration of the basic natural resources of Queensland and the northern part of Western Australia could result in Queensland's becoming the most industrialsed State in the Commonwealth within 50 years. It is simply a marrying of the coal, water, limestone and iron ore. This, with the tremendous infrastructure of the deep sea ports, provides the format of major development. The giant power house at Gladstone will be the nerve centre of concentrated mineral and chemical processing which will bring imense wealth to northern Australia as well as Australia generally in the earning of export income. The paucity of large scale, relatively cheap power has been the greatest retarding factor in the industrialisation of Queensland. This was seen quite clearly in a positive case several years ago when Queensland lost an aluminium smelter to New South Wales. Queensland lost the project because it simply could not provide large amounts of relatively cheap power unless it was heavily subsidised by either the Commonwealth or the State. The companies concerned with aluminium production had no alternative but to go to New South Wales and also to have some processing done in Tasmania. 
The conditions for the industrialisation of an area include, firstly, the evolution of an industrial nucleus which has the effect of catalysing or generating future growth. Although the missing link was power, we knew for many years that major industries wanted to go to Queensland. Now that missing link has been provided. For successful export industrialisation there is a pressing need for low cost raw materials. We now have low cost raw materials in the north of Australia. Most geologists and professional people will agree with me when I say that as regards mineral discoveries and development the surface of Australia has not yet been scratched. In the short time since mineral development and exploration have become concentrated tremendous deposits of iron ore, and steaming and coking coal have been found. This availability of these raw materials is something which most other countries envy. 
Japan is sending huge bulk carriers to Western Australia for iron ore, and she is now developing large carriers for the coal trade between Australia and Japan. Japan is coming down to Western Australia and Queensland, carting back the raw product to Japan and then exporting the steel to markets such as the United States of America. If Japan can do it why can Australia not do it? It would seem that this is the next stage of development. In addition to the low cost raw materials which we know we have. Queensland has an abundance of water. The next requirement is low cost power, which is now to be provided. Another necessary condition is for low cost steam and some method of effluent disposal. Until the last few years effluent disposal was looked upon as not a very important factor; effluent was just turned out into the sea or into the rivers. One has only to go to my own area of Mackay to see what pollution from the disposal from factories has done to organic matter. The position has to be rectified. No responsible government in the future can allow any major industrial complex to be developed unless the plans contain a proposal for the successful disposal of effluent. Another condition necessary for the successful industrialisation of an area is the location of ports. It is not much good finding tremendous quantities of coal, for example, in the middle of the Simpson Desert. One of the great problems with the valuable phosphate rock deposits in Queensland is their distance from the sea. Of course that project will be developed in time. Broken Hill South Ltd is doing a feasibility study now. The great benefit of the iron ore in Western Australia and the coal in Queensland is their proximity to the coast and to deep sea ports. Australia is very fortunate in having natural deposits of such magnitudelocated close to ports. 
There we have the conditions for industrialisation on a scale such as that contemplated at Gladstone. But there must be low cost raw materials, the necessary integration between coal and iron ore, low cost power, low cost water to generate steam, and effluent disposal. Then there is the necessity to co-ordinate the deep sea ports with the industrial complexes. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was discussing what type of industry might flow from the construction of a major power house at Gladstone. I made the point that the northern part of Australia was blessed with the 4 major criteria essential for large scale industry, namely, the availability of cheap raw material, particuarly in the form of coking and steaming coal, the availability of iron ore, the availability of power - which was the missing link which is now to be provided - and the availability of ample supplies of water, which of course is necessary in any large scale processing works for the provision of steam. These were the main reasons for building at Gladstone a major power house that will have a generating capacity of 1,100 megawatts. 
One of the main advantages of a power house at Gladstone, as I said before, is that in association with Weipa, which has the greatest deposit of bauxite in the world, the alumina works at Gladstone has been the springboard which has triggered off a remarkable series of chain reactions of development activity throughout Queensland. We have seen tremendous steps in the development and export of our coal, lt needs only the marriage of Queensland coal and Western Australian iron ore to develop a major steel complex in the north. Ever since the Commonwealth scrapped the plan for a massive multi-purpose hydroelectric power scheme for the Burdekin Valley just after the Second World War the northern and central areas of Queensland have had no chance in the competition for attracting large scale industries. They simply have not been in the race because they have not had access to relatively cheap power, lt seems clear that large scale aluminium works, aluminium being the next stage from alumina, and a chemicals plant will form the economic backbone of the area following the construction of the super power house at Gladstone. In other words, the first stage of development will be based on the processing oi aluminium and chemicals. The next stage could well be the establishment of a major export steel works utilising Western Australian iron ore and Queensland coal. 
This does not necessarily mean that Gladstone would be the logical centre for a steel works in Queensland. Many technical studies, such as those carried out by  Dr Buchanan, Mr Menzies  and others, have shown that Bowen, for example, like Gladstone has excellent environmental physical conditions which would be suitable for the establishment of an export steel complex. One of the requirements for large scale metallurgical and chemical processing is the abundance of water. This is one thing that centra] Queensland and north Queensland have. The largest undeveloped resources of water are contained in the Fitzroy and Burdekin basins which are located close to the coastal ports and coastal towns and are in close proximity to Gladstone in particular. The abundance of water, coking and steaming coal, limestone, iron ore and salt in the northern parts of Australia and the existence of a populated infrastructure in the coastal towns could well justify the establishment of high capacity plants despite the fact that a high cost may be involved. If the plants are of high capacity and their capacity is fully utilised the operating costs could be extremely low. Sufficient technical evidence is now available to suggest that perhaps the best integration of the physical resources of the north - that is coking and steaming coal, and iron ore - would be the production of pig iron in Western Australia and the product:on of steel in Queensland with ships travelling between Western Australia and Queensland carrying coal in one direction and iron ore in the other. 
Australia's main competitor in her expanded steel production is Japan which transports its steel mainly to the United States. Japan transports its raw materials such as iron ore from the west coast of Australia and coal from the eastern paris of Queensland. An export steel works in Queensland would have significant freight advantages over Japan, in that the complex would be located on or close to the coal fields and the processed material, steel, could be exported directly from the deep sea ports on the east coast. 
One of the charges often levelled against the Opposition is that it is opposed to foreign investment. This is not true. We have always argued that there should be a higher rate of Australian equity where possible in Australian developmental projects, particularly mineral projects. The development of the We:pa-Comalco complex is one example where the Labor Party would agree that there is a case for foreign management in marketing. If one studies the whole complex of the export of aluminium one finds that the free market for aluminium is relatively small, that it is virtually a captive market. If one looks at the trade in aluminium one finds that 5 companies dominate the production and export of aluminium in the Western world. These companies arc Alcoa, Reynolds, Kaiser in the United States. Alcan in Canada and Pechiney in France. I suppose it can be argued to Australia's advantage in this particular case that 3 of the world companies in association with Comalco have been able to establish the Weipa-Comalco bauxitealumina processing works in Australia. This does not mean that the Opposition believes that there should not be more Australian equity. In order to break into the world market, this world cartel, the Labor Party would argue that this is one specific case where foreign management has been justified. It would be extremely difficult for an Australian company to break into the world trade in aluminium in competition with Alcoa, Reynolds, Kaiser, Alcan and Pechiney. Comalco, for example, is achieving major advantages in Gladstone. 
It is well recognised that many process industries need electricity in large blocks and they need it cheaply. We have not received any information on this subject, but if the super-powerhouses can provide cheap electricity at less than 0.5c a kilowatt hour then Queensland is on the right road to major development in the chemicalmetallurgical field. As a second stage we hope to see the construction of a steel complex in the north utilising Western Australian iron ore and Queensland coking coal. 
The Opposition welcomes the motion and will facilitate a vote on it as soon as the Government wishes that action. As the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  has stated, this is a positive move, lt is a move which, from the terms of reference, has been well thought out. It is something which can achieve Only good. I hope, however, that in the interim the Government will give consideration to some of the problems which have been put forward on this matter. The select committee may take a number of years before it reaches a decision. For example, included in the terms of reference is provision for a survey of the mammals of the sea. That is going to be a pretty tall order, lt could take a long time. Most of the petitions that the honourable member for Henty and other honourable members have raised in this Parliament have been concerned with the kangaroo. There can be no doubt that a farcical position exists in Australia today. The Government through its export powers could give consideration to this point, because under the present laws the kangaroo is more valuable to Australia than the merino ram. It is against the law of this land to export a live kangaroo, except to an approved zoo, yet this country now allows the export of a merino ram to anyone. 
This is a farcical situation. It is not against the law to kill that same kangaroo, put his carcass into a tin and export it. This country of ours attaches such great importance and value to the kangaroo that it cannot be exported .live to friendly nations, yet it can be exported in a tin. So there are strong grounds for supporting this motion. I hope the select committee will put balance into this situation because, speaking as one who is familiar with most of the cattle and sheep country of northern Australia, I am fully aware of the pest proportions of the kangaroo, particularly, and the wallaby in the higher rainfall areas. Those people who are from the semi-arid areas know that, for example, after a spring rain when cattle may have been suffering from drought kangaroos can come in like a plague and devour most of the sweetest grasses. They can cause irreparable damage to perennial pastures, such as in the broken Mitchell grass country. They can do more damage to pastures than sheep, and sheep do more damage than cattle. I raise this point only because there has to be balance in our approach. 
It is not just a question of stopping the shooting of the kangaroo. It is not just a question of control in that respect. We have to recognise that there is also a conservation problem. How this is recognised and how it is controlled is a matter for the select committee. It is possible we may have to introduce measures such as West Australia is adopting. That State has zones in which shooting can and cannot occur. The kangaroo cannot be controlled like mickey bulls. No-one can suggest that the kangaroo can be castrated so that it cannot breed, as mickey bulls can be. This is a problem which has to be faced and there are 2 extreme views on it. It is a question of marrying these two views, of being able to define zones or parks or whatever it might be and having humane reasons also brought forward. I am concerned with the serious anomaly that is evident in not allowing live kangaroos to be exported. If it is good enough to shoot them in some of the worst acts of cruelty one can find, particularly by the amateur shooters as opposed to professional shooters, surely it is good enough to allow them to be exported live to friendly areas. I cannot see the propriety of not allowing live kangaroos to be exported to friendly nations when they can be exported in a tin or ruthlessly shot. 
It should be borne in mind that the kangaroo should have some rights in this country of ours. It is on our coat of arms; it is something which we should honour. After all, it was here before the white person arrived. I suppose if the kangaroo could speak it could say: 'This is my country', just as the Aboriginal can say: 'This is my country'. As history shows, our treatment of natural fauna has not been too kind. With that thought I would say that the Opposition supports the establishment of the select committee which should keep in mind the balance I have mentioned; conservation on the one hand and the fact that there is a pest problem on the other. 
I have listened carefully to every word that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has stated in an endeavour to justify his attitude, and that of his Cabinet, for a breach of faith - which is crystal clear - on an undertaking given by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  the previous Minister for National Development, to the States and which was accepted in good faith by those States. The Prime Minister has set out to confuse the issue, to play with words and to deliberately try to misinterpret, by words, the aims and objectives and undertakings given by the former Minister for National Development and accepted by all State Ministers. 
The Prime Minister's whole case rests on his statement that the previous Minister for National Development did in fact commit the Commonwealth to further discussions but did not commit the Commonwealth to prior discussions. How absurd and naive. Does the Prime Minister really believe that we are going to swallow that? The Prime Minister is trying to tell this House that the former Minister for National Development did not know the meaning of the undertaking which he gave. More absurdly, he is trying to tell the House that the 6 State Ministers also did not understand the undertaking given - the undertaking which they accepted. The Prime Minister's attempt through stubborness and, I think arrogance to justify his extraordinary behaviour, and that of his Cabinet in a deliberate breach of confidence, of faith, is schoolboyish. It is a disgrace. 
Since becoming the Prime Minister of Australia the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has exhibited a sort of cavalier, contemptuous arrogance for those who disagree wilh his convictions. He seems to believe that he is always right. A Prime Minister has the right to do so if he wishes but he docs so at his own political risk. Despite the powers of a Prime Minister of this nation, the person who holds that position has never possessed the right, nor will he ever possess the right in a democracy such as ours, to break and dishonour undertakings given or made for him or for his Government. 
An intensive study of the official evidence on off-shore matters which is now available reveals that an unqualified and unambiguous agreement with the States was entered into by the previous Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  acting on behalf of the Commonwealth Government and with the authority of the Cabinet. This undertaking, which committed the Commonwealth, was unreservedly understood and agreed to by every State Minister acting on behalf of his respective government. The essence of this undertaking was that before any legislative action would be taken on this matter the Commonwealth would consult with the States. The commitments entered into by a responsible Cabinet Minister were, firstly, that the Minister for National Development would arrange for the views of the States as expressed through the State Ministers to be considered by Federal Cabinet, and secondly, a meeting would be convened between the Commonwealth and the States to consider further the Commonwealth proposals because of the serious Commonwealth-State relationships in this proposition. 
The proof of the Commonwealth's pledge is revealed by the official records of the meeting held on 26th September, the letters exchanged between the Prime Minister and the previous Minister for National Development, and the subsequent bitter statements made by State Premiers and responsible State Ministers, all in condemnation of the Gorton Government for an inexcusable breach of faith. To argue that no breach of faith occured in the face of the official evidence, in the face of the State Ministers and State Premiers, is nothing more than a stubborn refusal to listen to the truth. The charges simply enunciated by the exMinister for National Development last Friday in this House when he condemned this Cabinet are true. They are fully substantiated by the official facts at the Commonwealth and State levels. They are fully substantiated by every State Government in this country. No person in this House should say that the words are not true. The words cannot be twisted to devise ambiguous meanings, as the Prime Minister has attempted to do. Six State Ministers and a former Federal Cabinet Minister have revealed the unpalatable facts that not only have the Prime Minister and his Cabinet breached a serious agreement, but the same Government has continued to maintain this attitude of Commonwealth infallibility. This type of behaviour and abuse of power is degenerating the national Parliament to a level where it is being openly treated with contempt by the State Governments and in fact by the people who elect us. 
The evidence shows clearly that not only was a serious undertaking given by the Commonwealth to consult before any legislative action was taken but also the actual dates of the proposed future meetings were considered in detail by the Ministers present. It is patently clear that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet have been guilty of gross incompetence in the manner in which this high handed action has been conducted. Even if the Cabinet admitted that it was unaware of the firmness of the commitment until after the unilateral action had been taken by the Prime Minister and his Cabinet, the inescapable conclusion to be reached is that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet are guilty of neglect and incompetence. This incompetence is illustrated further by the attitude to this whole affair of the former Attorney-General, now the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Bowen),  who has adopted a rather strange silence in this matter. The former Attorney-General was present at the meeting between the Commonwealth and the States. He was present when the ex-Minister for National Development unreservedly committed the Commonwealth to this meeting prior to legislation. The former Attorney-General is a Cabinet Minister. Surely he was fully aware of the serious complications which would arise with the States at the time when Cabinet was considering its decision. 
If the former Attorney-General did not warn the Prime Minister and his Cabinet of the undertakings to the States then he is guilty of incompetence. If he did in fact warn the Prime Minister and the Cabinet then the Prime Minister and the Cabinet, by ignoring the warning by the former Attorney-General, have shown a dictatorial and inexcusable abuse of power. I shall now deal with the new Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who seems to be an uncomfortable pawn in this whole game. I find it incredible that the new Minister for National Development did not become aware of this undertaking until after the Cabinet had made its decision to legislate, that is, towards the end of February. In the words of the Minister for National Development uttered in Parliament last Friday: 
The full details referred to by the honourable member for Farrer did not come to my knowledge until well after the Cabinet meeting . . . 
He went on: 
It was not until some time after that meeting that I realised that the previous Minister for National Development had firmly believed that an undertaking to discuss this matter further with the States had been given. 
One would have thought that the Minister for National Development would at least have made himself familiar with the records of this most important meeting. The only excuse that can be offered on the part of the new Minister for National Development for this very curious and staggering omission of ministerial responsibility is that in this ruthless game of politics, of ministerial sackings, reappointments and new appointments, and reshuffling of portfolios, the new Minister had not time to do his homework. One must have grave doubts also whether the Minister for National Development had actually studied the official records before he made his statement in the House. If he had read them and digested their contents, why would he make the admission, after the document had been tabled, that he was not aware of the undertaking to the States until after the Cabinet decision had been made. The proof of the commitment is in the very documents which he tabled. If the Minister is telling the truth, then by his own admission he has clearly stated his neglect in not familiarising himself with the facts. 
But let me say this: As a former senior public servant whose job it was to advise Ministers, I find it completley unacceptable to believe that officers of the Department of National Development did not acquaint the new Minister for National Development of the undertakings given by the previous Minister for National Development almost 5 months before this fateful Cabinet decision. I have not attempted to quote from the official records; this was done at length by the ex-Minister for National Development in this House last Friday. The evidence is there for all to see. In addition, last Friday I revealed the contents of a letter from the Victorian Minister for Mines,  Mr J.  C. M. Balfour, which completely substantiated the undertaking given by the previous Minister for National Development. The letter appears in last Friday's Hansard in full, but I repeat thi.s part of it: 
. further discussion and consultation would take place as between the Commonwealth and the States before agreement was reached or a decision made . . . 
Is there any need for me to belabour to this House the mistrust that is presently being felt by State Governments on this matter, the bitterness towards the Prime Minister and his Cabinet because of this arrogant abuse of power. It is there in full to be seen in the minutes of the March meeting this year. I do not have time to quote those minutes now. Is it any wonder that the State Ministers treat this high handed attitude with some contempt? 
Let me dwell on the position of the States in the matter because this is most important. Every State Government knew, after 26th September, that before any legislative action would be taken by the Commonwealth the States would be consulted in order to achieve maximum co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth. This undertaking was given by the former Minister for National Development. Because of this unqualified Commonwealth assurance the States did not engage in any public controversies or criticism of the Commonwealth along the lines expressed by the Ministers at the meeting of 26th September. They did not engage in lobbying or pressure tactics with the Commonwealth because they respected the views of the Commonwealth and they respected the undertaking entered into between them and the Commonwealth. But the Prime Minister and his Cabinet nevertheless, taking advantage of the truce, seized the opportunity to go the whole hog by making a Cabinet decision to legislate for the ownership and control of all resources below the low water mark. Perhaps the Prime Minister thought this was a smart political move which would catch the States completely asleep. But responsible governments do not adopt such dishonourable tactics. They do not act in this way. In effect, the Prime Minister and his Cabinet, through what it was evidently believed was smart politics, scuttled the States. They ratted on promises made by a responsible Cabinet Minister and accepted by the States. Is it any wonder that the State Ministers treated this dishonourable action with dismay and contempt - contempt expressed publicly. 
Let me quote just one reaction in the time that I have left. The  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland,  Dr Delamothe,  who is the Queensland Minister for Justice - and this is recorded officially in the minutes of March this year - said: 
There has been an arrant and, I believe, considered breach of faith on the part of the Commonwealth. 

 Mr Speaker, by continuing with this display of stubborn, unrelenting arrogance, by refusing to admit that he was wrong, by refusing to admit that the former Minister for National Development is right, the Prime Minister is denigrating his Cabinet, his Party and this Parliament to an intolerable situation. This is a Cabinet of dishonour. It cannot be trusted. The Prime Minister, by his dictatorial and unrelenting action, which has been backed by a subservient Cabinet, has revealed to the nation and the Parliament, including members of the coalition Liberal-Country Party, that he and his Cabinet are not fit to honourably govern this country. How can any person, let alone a State government now, ever trust this Cabinet when serious promises which have been made have been so flagrantly dishonoured? This Cabinet cannot be trusted. It is unfit to govern this country and the Prime Minister, the principal actor in this sorry, sordid affair has shown that he should not be the Prime Minister of this nation. 
1 direct a friendly question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the Great Barrier Reef, particularly to a reef which is of tremendous importance to the electorate of Dawson and which was visited last Friday by the right honourable Prime Minister of Canada. My question concerns the joint Commonwealth-State committee to investigate the problems of the crown of thorns starfish. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that much of the evidence will be taken in secret to the degree that the names of many of the witnesses will not even be published? As this is a Commonwealth-State committee and as it is of great importance both scientifically and economically to Australia as well as the rest of the world, will the Prime Minister have a look at this point and ensure that all evidence will be made public? 
The principal objective of this Bill is to provide a more realistic maximum rate of charge that can be imposed on dried fruits - currants, sultanas and raisins - exported from this country. This charge, which is the major source of income of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, has remained unchanged at a maximum of 0.1c per lb since the legislation was originally enacted in 1924. At one time the Board operated on rates lower than the maximum, but in recent years its operative rate has been the maximum rate of 0. lc per lb. It has become apparent that the Board has insufficient funds to carry out its activities in the field of export promotion. This has been due in some measure to adverse seasonal conditions which have reduced the Board's income. The objective of the Bill is to increase the maximum of levy to 0.3c per lb and thus provide a more realistic relationship between the operative rate and the maximum rate. But as costs increase one might expect the operative rate to increase until it is equal to the maximum rate. We would then have to consider the problem anew. 
The increase in the maximum rate is designed to provide the Board with more finance but we must not forget that the levy is paid by the farmer. The standard of living of Australia's small farmers is fast becoming a matter for concern. This is particularly so in the case of small farmers producing for the export market, an activity in which most small farmers are engaged. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the small farmer, such as the producer of dried vine fruits for the highly volatile export market, is fighting a losing battle against increasing costs. So while the Board needs more money to carry on its promotional work, which all honourable members will concede is necessary, the small producer is burdened with higher levies. The matter of costs is very relevant because, as has been pointed out in the House many times, the small farmer is the backbone of the intensive agriculture districts of Australia. The small farmer plays an important role in decentralisation. Very often he is highly efficient, no matter what physical criterion you adopt - productivity per acre or productivity per man hour. The continual drain on his resources from production costs, higher living costs and increased levies is a vexed problem. I know that the Government is aware of the seriousness of the problem. It is referred to as a 'small farm problem'. The only defence open to the small farmer who grows for the export market is to try to increase productivity and so decrease his average costs of production or to hope for higher export prices. These matters, of course, are often beyond his control. 
The Bill is a machinery measure. It is not one which affords opportunity for a wide ranging debate on the dried vine fruits industry. I would like to refer to the stabilisation plan and the referendum, but 1 have been informed that I would be out of order if I did so. The debate is confined to the relationship of the operative rate of charge by the Board to the maximum rate. Although I may have strayed a little in my remarks 1 do not think I have transgressed unduly. The Opposition supports the Bill. We believe in export promotion. In a situation of inflationary growth policies we see no reason why the Board or any other organisation charged with the responsibility of promoting sales in the interests of the industry and of Australia should not have more revenue. The Opposition supports the BUI and hopes with this qualification that the Government will take serious notice of the increase in costs, which is one of the reasons why the Board wanted more finance, and of the burden on the small farmer. If this increase in costs continues it is obvious the small farmer will need more financial assistance, even if it is in the form of subsidies. All these points are relevant to a degree, but are not completely relevant to the Bill.  Mr Speaker,  the Opposition supports the Bill. 
The principal purpose of this Bill, which is a machinery Bill, is to allow the repayment to growers of excess moneys which have accumulated in the Canned Fruit Excise Fund because of administrative delays in effecting a reduction in the excise levy on canned deciduous fruits. This Bill relates to the operations of the Australian Canned Fruits Board, which engages in promotional activities throughout the payment of market development allowances for the promotion of Australian canned deciduous fruits in overseas markets. A rate of excise is imposed on defined varieties of deciduous fruits and these moneys are paid into the Canned Fruit Excise Fund. The objective of this fund is to promote the export marketing of canned fruits. This is done principally through the payment of market development allowances and, at the same time, by engaging in constructive promotional activities in various markets overseas. The rate of excise was originally 30c per dozen 29 oz cans. After an agreement was made with the United States of America the rate was reduced to 5c per dozen 29 oz cans. 
After the agreement the payment of the market development allowances with respect to the export of canned fruit was discontinued. They were discontinued, as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  mentioned in his second reading speech, from 1st January 1969. When they were discontinued the Board recommended that there should be a reduction in the levy. This of course took some time to put into effect. It was not until 31st March, approximately 3 months later, that the machinery to finalise the reduction was swung into action. This meant, in effect, that surplus moneys were being held in the Canned Fruit Excise Fund. The decision of the Government and the purpose of this amendment is to refund a proportion of that excess money to the producers. That is the principal objective of the Bill. 
The Bill is more limited than the one we spoke on this afternoon, soI suppose that means I have to spent less time on it than I spent on the one this afternoon - and that was pretty limited, too. The Opposition has no objection to this Bill. The principles contained in it are sound. There has been an overpayment of excise by producers, and the Government is now refunding to the producers the amount of this overpayment. The overpayment came about because of the cancellation of market development allowances following an agreement between the United Stales of American and the Commonwealth Government. 
This Bill is concerned with the development of water conservation in the Bundaberg district. It is the first project to be financed under what is called the new national water resources development programme. Under this new development programme $100m will be made available over the next 5 years for water conservation projects which are approved by the Commonwealth. Previous to this there was the first or the old national water resources development programme in which $50m was allocated for a period of years. This Bill is concerned with the provision of a grant of up to $12. 8m for the construction of conservation works in the Kolan-Burnett district. In 1967 proposals were submitted by Queensland for irrigation development to serve the Kolan-Burnett area on the northern side of the Burnett River. The Kolan-Burnett scheme was allegedly analysed by the Commonwealth when the so-called short l:st of priorities was being determined under the old national water resources development programme, and apparently it was rejected. 
The question which I have asked in this Parliament many times is: Why was it rejected? I have never yet received any satisfactory answer, except that perhaps it was not in a progressive form sufficiently advanced for the Commonwealth to give a priority rating to it. But perhaps the correct reason was that it was not recognised as the No. 1 priority of the Queensland Government at that particular time. At that time the Nogoa River project had first priority. In March 1969 new proposals were submitted for the irrigation project to cover the Bundaberg cane growing areas served principally by the 3 mills of Fairymead, Bingera and Gin Gin, or the Wallaville mill. This proposal was in essence a refinement of the original wider scheme. In 1969 the Queensland Government provided S8.3m for this project which consisted principally of the tidal barrages on the Kolan and the Burnett Rivers, pumping stations and reticulation works to send water from the barrages to areas adjacent to the coast where there have been serious problems with water conservation, particularly with underground water supplies 
After the State government had announced that it would go ahead with the project because of the desperate situation regarding water conservation in the Bundaberg region, the Commonwealth Government announced that it would provide a figure of up to $12.8m in the form of a grant principally for the construction of the Monduran Dam on the Kolan River and a channel to convey the water from the Kolan River to the Burnett River which would pass close to Gin Gin. This would allow the sugar cane area north of the Burnett River to receive reticulated water supplies and also would allow for recharging of the aquifers which were being depleted by the constant drawing of water for irrigation. The $12.8m will go towards the cost of the Monduran Dam, the pumping station and the inter-river connecting channels. A storage capacity will be provided for the Dam of approximately 475,000 acre feet with an annual supply and a safe draw of 175,000 acre feet. 
Water conservation is one of the perennial problems aired in this Parliament. Some people believe that no funds should be made available for irrigation or water conservation. They have opposed practically every water conservation scheme that has been put up by this Parliament. An irrigation programme such as the Bundaberg scheme can be justified by its 2 broad objectives, firstly, to stabilise or to maintain the existing production, and secondly, to expand production. There are two basic types of irrigation development projects. The first, such as the Ord River and Nogoa River schemes, is located in a non-developed area or an unproven area. The second type, like the Bundaberg scheme, is located in a proven or established area where there is an infrastructure such as towns, port facilities and railways and where very large losses of production occur because of rainfall or moisture deficiency. We are not talking today about the economics of a scheme such as the Ord River or the Nogoa River scheme. We are talking about an area which is proven and which has been established for over 100 years. Here tremendous losses occur simply because the seasons consistently fail. I shall detail the extent of those losses later. lt is significant that in this case no benefit-cost analysis has been made available to the Parliament. I shall move an amendment in the second reading stage that the benefit-cost analysis or technical evaluation should be made available to the Parliament in support of projects such as this, lt  is  most  difficult  to argue on the technical analysis simply on the cost side when one cannot see the benefit side. If one does see the benefits one realises that they cannot be measured because all the assumptions that underlie the data put forward by the Government are not available. This applies not only to the Bundaberg scheme. 1 have said before that this Parliament should have available for debate the technical reports on which these decisions are taken. We had a complete benefit-cost analysis justifying the beef roads scheme, but that was withdrawn from the Parliament. Other such reports should have been available concerning the Ord River project, the Nogoa River project, the money spent on coal ports, loans made for port facilities in connection with the bauxite development, and the present scheme. 
Several weeks ago we had a great discussion here on the Dartmouth and Chowilla Dams. We argued as to which was the better of the two. Not one word was spoken about the value of benefits. Only the costs were dealt with. The whole basis of that discussion was: Which would be the best scheme, from the point of v ew of the minimum cost criteria, to provide so much water? No benefit-cost analysis was provided. The Bill before the House seeks to provide SI 2.8m for irrigation. To debate the scheme intelligently we should have access to quantitative analyses which are available. When we were debating the Dartmouth Dam versus the Chowilla Dam issue 1 argued that we should have access to the computer analyses which were made for both Dartmouth and Chowilla. They will be made available to me. but there are still no benefit-cost analyses available to the Parliament for this project. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  have been talking about setting up parliamentary committees. Perhaps if we did have such committees they might go into such details as public investment a little more thoroughly. The problem does not lie only with primary industry. Some honourable members opposite are very critical of irrigation projects. 1 can see no difference in principle between a subsidy for a particular project and a tariff. No Bills go through this House more quickly than do Customs Tariff Bills and yet the amount of money involved in them is frequently tremendous. We should know a little bit more about them. I support the Bundaberg scheme. I. supported the Ord River scheme and the Nogoa scheme. 
Yes. I have great faith in water conservation. I should be glad if the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  could tell me of one major irrigation scheme in Australia or, for that matter, in the world, which is a failure- 
Or which has failed after operating for a period of 15 or 20 years. The basic problem is that there is not enough water. I would like to know of one such scheme. The honourable member for Bradfield mentions the Ord River project. That project has nol even been fully constructed yet. Let it be completed. The same arguments were put forward by the Liberal Party wilh respect to the Snowy Mountains scheme. The same argument was put forward often with respect to the Mumimbidgee irrigation area and the Hume reservoir. Look at the areas served by these projects now. Can anybody say that the areas around Renmark, Griffith, Leeton and Mildura are broke and do not have thriving economies. 
lt is the honourable member for Bradfield who is getting excited. He can have his say on this project in a minute. Let us look at the project. I mentioned before the 2 types of projects. The honourable member for Bradfield is leaving the chamber. I wish he would stay here. The project in this area is important because of the losses the area has suffered. lt is quite a different proposition from the evaluation made on the Ord and the Nogoa. The losses alone, which can bc evaluated on facts, are considerable. They can bc calculated by going along to the sugar mills and finding out the losses in mill peaks in every drought year. In the last 35 years thi value of the losses of the Gin Gin and 
Bingera mills alone have been estimated at $90m. If one took into account the cumulative losses of the Fairymead, Qunaba, Millaquin and Isis mills one would find that the direct loss in the Bundaberg district, an established area, from the lack of water alone is not much less than $200m over that 35 year period for which records are available. This is the point which I hope that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  will take some notice of, because he has been one of the most critical members in the House - he is a member of the Liberal Party - of irrigation in Australia. 
We are dealing with a proven area where the losses are real. They can be evaluated and measured. The cumulative costs of the losses in the Bundaberg district justify tho construction of the head works and the reticulation system without taking into account any need for expansion, which after all has usually been the basis for irrigation in Australia. This is a type of project which I have always said should have the highest priority in irrigation works. Priority should be given to proven and established areas because the infrastructure and the economy are there. Because of one factor, the variability of rainfall, there are violent fluctuations in the level of production. In the 1964-65 drought the shortfalls of mill peaks at Bingera and Gin Gin were 22% and 45%. The total value of the losses of those 2 mills in that year was $19m. If water had been available $19m would have been saved, taking into account the extra cost for reticulation, interest, pumping and so forth. These 2 mills alone over the past 35 years had an official loss of something like $90m. But if we take the cumulative figure for the 6 sugar mills in the area - and the records are there for everyone to see - the loss would be about $200m over that period. 
On top of that loss, of course, are the indirect costs of drought. We are talking of only the direct losses which have been occasioned by drought. If we take into account indirect losses such as loss of wages and the loss of the spending power of the cane cutter, mill worker or farmer, and apply the multiplier theory, the loss for the Bundaberg area is a very large one. I can see no reason why the Government cannot make available a technical evaluation of this project. The project should have top priority based on the losses I have outlined without taking into account expanded production that will occur later on. The  2  objectives are underground water replenishment and the provision of reticulated water. We have to deal with the question o! priorities in this House. It is high time that the Government's ad hoc approach to water conservation was overhauled and reviewed. 
What is the method involved? The method involved is that the Commonwealth invites the States to put up proposals. As we are dealing with Queensland, let me mention some of the proposals that have been put up in recent years. I refer to the extension of the  Mareeba-Dimbula  area. We have the giant Burdekin basin, which encompasses the Burdekin River project at the falls, the Broken River, Urannah and Eungella. Then we come south to the Fitzroy Basin, the Nogoa and the giant Dawson scheme. We have further south on the Burnett the present Bundaberg scheme and the Border rivers scheme, which has been cited in the House and which the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who is now in the Chair, has referred to often in this House. These are types of proposals that are put up. 
When the previous Minister for National Development was in office I repeatedly tried to get from him the reason why the Nogoa was the No. 1 priority for Queensland. Anybody versed in cost benefit analysis would know that the present Bundaberg scheme is superior economically to the Nogoa scheme. I supported the Nogoa scheme just as I supported the Ord Scheme because it was the only project being considered. We had to either support it or oppose it. There were no alternatives. It is not good enough to accept the proposition that because the Queensland Government or any other State government says a project is its No. 1 priority we should therefore consider only that project. I accept that the Queensland Government can develop with its own funds any project that it likes, but where Commonwealth funds are involved surely the correct approach is to consider a number of alternative projects and to apply the accepted principles of marginal analysis or cost benefit analysis to the evaluation of them. A decision could then be made on the economics of the projects or, if a government wants to, it can bring politics into it. 
But wc should at least have alternatives on which to make those decisions. 
The Bundaberg irrigation project should have been built years ago because of the staggering losses alone which have been occasioned to this nation in terms of national income and export income, lt is just not good' enough for a State Government to say: This is the No. 1 priority and this is the only project to consider as was the case with the Nogoa scheme. The Ord River project in Western Australia was considered not as an alternative to any other scheme in Western Australia, Queensland or any other area, but was considered in isolation. I supported it and will continue to support it. I have always said in this Parliament that the correct procedure from the Commonwealth viewpoint was to consider a number of alternatives. This applies not only to water conservation but to other projects so that the best use can be made of the Federal funds. We could consider water conservation as against some other priority projects. This Parliament should be utilising the resources of this nation in the best possible way. If it has money: to spend it should spend it so that it will give the greatest return to the nation in terms of export income. 
What will be the next water project? As we are talking about the project in Queensland, we find that the Queensland Government has rated the Urannah project as its No. 1 project now. I refer to the Broken River project. Here we return to the same argument as before. How did the Queensland Government make the Urannah project its No. 1 priority now? Or did it make its first priority the Nogoa project, its second priority the Bundaberg project and its third priority the Urannah project? How did it make this decision? This is what we want to know. Surely if any State government puts a No. 1 priority on a project it has carried out alternative or comparative economic analyses. But this has not been done in Queensland. I submit to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  that we put an end to this ad hoc approach. I suggest that we look at what is happening. 
I am talking now about the Urannah scheme which is part of the Burdekin River. We should consider the entire Burdekin basin because a large number of proposals have been made concerning it. There is the giant Burdekin project which is based on the falls. Then there is the Broken River project in conjunction with the Eungella. Then there is the diversion of the Herbert River into the Burdekin River itself. All of these are important projects. But when one asks the Government any questions about them, one can gel no answers. What this Parliament must know is the evaluation of the entire Burdekin basin, taking into account the various proposals put up by the State Government but. al the same time, providing that any money that is to be spent will be spent on the best possible project from the point of view of the Commonwealth. 
How does a State determine its No. 1 priority without economic analyses? Such a decision is affected by politics, policies and the likes and dislikes of individuals, lt is not. based on economic analyses: therefore, it can be based only on something that is quantitative or a judgment. I find it difficult - perhaps the Minister for National Development will reply to me on this point - to understand why the Federal Government has not honoured its promise to Queensland to carry out a reappraisal of the Burdekin River project. This is just one more of the promises that have been made and have not been honoured by the Commonwealth, lt is all right to say that it is under consideration or that some basic homework is being done behind the scenes. This is not the way to carry out an evaluation study. 
Some 2 years ago, as the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  well knows, the then Premier of Queensland, the late  Mr Pizzey,  announced that the Commonwealth Government had commenced an evaluation of the Burdekin project early in 1969. This announcement was reinforced by repeated statements made by the present Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  Since that time, all sorts of excuses have been advanced as to why that evaluation has not proceeded. One thing that concerns me is the false information that is being bandied around in Queensland about the cost of the Burdekin Dam. It has been stated consistently that the capital cost of the Burdekin Dam will be $300m or $400m. The truth of the matter is that it will cost at the most approximately S70m and will be one of the cheapest dams in terms of acre feet of assured yield. Either in total capacity or in the safe draw it will be one of the cheapest dams in Australia. I will quote some of the figures available in a minute to substantiate that claim. 
The huge catchment area of this Burdekin project relative to the excellent major dam site allows for low cost construction. What I am trying to show here is that it is no good just accepting that one project has No. 1 priority without comparative analyses. Let us have a look at the whole of this basin to see which of the projects in fact is the best proposition from the point of view of the expenditure of Commonwealth funds. The relationship of the Burdekin Dam to the large areas commandable from Bowen to Townsville provides outstanding opportunities for a multi-purpose city power-water supply and drought mitigation project. One of the great sins of the Burdekin River project is that, although its national importance was recognised by a Commonwealth Labor government 20 years ago and this was backed by the Queensland Labor Government, nothing has been done since then. 
The best estimates available show that the construction cost of a completed Burdekin Dam at the falls site would be approximately $26 per acre foot of assured yield pei annum. That is assured yield per annum as distinct from capacity. The comparable figures for other schemes show that the cost of the Fairbairn Dam was $150 par acre foot for the safe draw - we are getting up into a pretty high figure bracket - while the cost of the Eungella project was $70 an acre foot and the cost of tha proposed Urannah scheme is $130 per acre foot. That is the capital cost of the dam divided by the assured annual supply as distinct from the total capacity. As an example, I mention that the Ord River project had a capacity of just under 5 million acre feet but has a safe draw in excess of 1 million acre feet per annum. The safe draw comparison is really, I would submit, the on':y correct measurement that we can look at. It is what can actually be obtained each year that counts lt is no use building a great wall to impound water if no water will be available. 
No. In terms of the cost of gross storage per acre foot, the Burdekin is an outstanding proposition. The point that I am making is that, before the Government proceeds after this project with what is then the No. 1 priority in Queensland - that today is the Urannah project, which I support, if it is the only project - it should look at the alternatives available in the Burdekin basin. We should look at the Burdekin Dam falls. We should consider the Burdekin River project in conjunction with the Urannah. We should consider also the diversion of the Herbert River into the Burdekin for flood mitigation purposes. Let us look at these projects and let the Commonwealth spend it! money, if it wants to spend it, on the best project. Honourable members may ask what the Burdekin Dam project is for. One of the principal beneficiaries of this project will be the city of Townsville. It is a growing city- 
No. The Burnett River project is concerned with Bundaberg. I am speaking about the next priority after Bundaberg. Townsville is the most important city in north Queensland. I had better not say that it is the most important city in northern Australia because my friends in Darwin probably would reject that statement. Nevertheless, it is the most important city in northern Queeensland in terms of population, but not necessarily from a qualitative point of view because there are other cities which are very important too, such as my own city of Mackay as well as the Home Hill and Burdekin areas themselves. Nevertheless, from the point of view of Townsville, the development of the Burdekin River is f fundamental in the same way as Dartmouth and Chowilla were to South Australia. The point which does not please me very much is that decisions are being made without any technical evaluation of the cost and benefits of those decisions. 
 No, 1 am not saying that. What 1 am saying is that before a decision is made about the next priority - this is in the Burdekin in my own area at Urannah - the question to be answered is this, based purely on economic analysis- 
Yes. What should be done is that (he Government should look at the alternatives in the Burdekin River basin in the same way as the alternatives in the Fitzroy basin should have been considered. This area is represented by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  Before the Nogoa was decided upon, the Government should have looked also al the Dawson in the Theodore area. The opinion of many is that this was a superior economic scheme. But the po'nt is this: The Opposition supported the Nogoa scheme, lt supports to the full this project because, as I have said before, on the information that we have the Burnett scheme is the best irrigation development project based on economic analyses that has been proposed in Queensland for a long tine. I cannot compare it with the MareebaDimbulah scheme because I have not the figures. But. certainly from the point of view of the Commonwealth, what 1 have said about the Burnett scheme is true. The other point that  1  have made is that in this Parliament we must have more information to debate these matters intelligently. The right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  asked me whether I would rate the Burdeken project as No. I priority. The Labor Party certainly 20 years ago rated the Burdekin basin project as the No. 2 priority in Australia, behind the great Snowy Mountains scheme. In fact legislation was passed by the State Government for the setting up of the Burdekin River Valley Authority and if ii had not been for the fall of the Labor Government :n  1949  the 
Burdekin  River project would now have been completed. 
In summing up my remarks on the Bundaberg scheme, there is only one important point which should he considered by those who. if they run true 10 form, will no doubt criticise irrigation. 1 am sorry that the honourable member for Bradfield is not here because the point I wanted to impress upon him was that all of the arguments which he has put in the past in this Parliament have been concerned with new areas such as the Ord River scheme and the question marks about cotton and about sorghum marketing. Similar queries were passed about the Nogoa River scheme. When dealing with the Bundaberg scheme we are nol speaking of expanded production or a new area. The project is simply to provide water for an area which is dependent for its whole economic viability upon the provision of consistently safe water supplies. Experience has shown over the last 50 years, and particularly over the last 35 years for which the records are available, that the Bundaberg district is one area in Australia which desperately needs water. 
If water can be supplied at a reasonable cost per acre foot, then taking into account losses incurred in past years, superficially one can say, even without having technical information available, that this is an excellent project. Anybody associated with the sugar industry in the Burnett area knows full well of the tragedies of sugar farmers over the years, particularly in the Wallaville and Gin Gin areas where men in some years have not received one cent by way of income because sugar crops - one of the toughest crops of all - have failed to produce sufficient on some farms to harvest a stick. These tragedies have occurred despite the the fact that the soils in terms of cane growing are good soils and that the farms are in close proximity to export ports and railways. The infrastructure is there but he 1 missing link is water.  1  will be very interested to hear any arguments put forward against this proposal. The only thing I. have against this scheme, and it is not an argument, is thai in terms of priorities we should be considering this project with other projects, but at the moment this is the only scheme under consideration. In terms of an economic viability we know that given an assured water supply each year the mill peaks will be reached. Under this scheme the 3 mills directly concerned are located at Gin Gin, Fairymead and Bingera. The fact that the mill peaks would be consistently reached each year is sufficient justification for the construction of the headworks, the reticulation and the pumping system for this project. ] said earlier in my remarks that I would refer to some figures to substantiate my claims of the losses suffered by farmers in these areas. These are official figures taken out after a study of rainfall patterns in these areas, after obtaining the quantitative figures from the sugar mills, taking the shortfalls due to drought and then multiplying them by the value of sugar at that time. In 1964 and 1965 the regional shortfalls in the Bundaberg district were 22% and 45% of mill peaks. That was the loss in production caused by insufficient moisture. That loss was valued at $19m. It can be argued, at least superficially, that those lasses alone would justify the construction of the headworks. 
The years 1964 and 1965 represented the first occurrence of 2 consecutive years of below average rainfall since 1952. Since 1900 there have been 10 periods of two or more successive years in the Bundaberg district of below average rainfall and five periods of more than 2 years, and one period of 5 successive years. Should Bundaberg ever again have even 3 consecutive years of this type of devastation caused by poor rainfall the whole district would be financially bankrupt. Nol only would the sugar farmers suffer: Bundaberg, being dependent on a monoculture, would suffer in terms of the district as a whole. The business houses, the workforce and every person in the district, would be placed in a very serious financial position. One may argue that although there has consistently been a below average rainfall for a period of 35 years in that area this is not likely to occur again. I suppose such an argument could be put forward but what sort of an argument is it? From a scientific point of view one must take some notice of the available records. Surely the correct way to judge the economics of a particular project in terms of potential justification is to make a study of the records over the last 50 years and work out on a graph the correlation coefficients to predict with some degree of probability what the future holds. In other words, we have to argue that there will be droughts in this area as there have been in the last 50 years, but let us hope that future droughts will not be as severe as those which have occurred in the past. This small project will not slop all the devastation in sugar cane losses, in beef cattle production and in other indirect costs which will be associated with a major drought. 
The average shortfalls for Bingera and Gin Gin mills for a 35 year period give an annual average value of approximately SI. 3m for 66 years. This would give a total of S90m. Those figures were arrived at based on the best available scientific estimates of the losses occasioned in this district. There has been a direct loss of S90m. As  1  have already said, if one applies a normal multiplier coefficient of between 2 and 3 the figure reached is between SI 80m and 5270m as the direct and the indirect loss. The Bundaberg project is one which can be justified. When discussing this matter we are nol talking about expansion. Those associated with the sugar industry are aware that under the International Sugar Agreement, which is working satisfactorily, supply is being overtaken by demand. But it will be only a matter of several more years before there will be another expansion in this field. Expansion is controlled. If more industries in Australia look lime out to study the efficiency of the sugar industry in terms of controlled production a lot of them would not be in the position they are in today. The sugar industry, in terms of production anyhow is ranked as the most efficient in Australia. The only occasion when there has been a serious breakdown in overseas prices was after the political repercussions when Cuba fell out with the United States of Amenca lt has taken some time to get over this marketing problem but Cuba has now come to the party under the International Sugar Agreement and the Agreement is new working satisfactorily. It will be only a matter of 5 or 6 years before serious consideration is given to another expansion. That is another reason why a project such as this will bc of tremendous importance 
Before concluding I want to move an amendment I will circulate it later. The essence of the amendment is that the Commonwealth technical evaluation of this project, including any benefit cost analysis made, should he available to the Parliament. We cannot argue sensibly about this project, or any o her project, unless this type of information is available. I have asked for it before but we have not obtained it. 
I wish to refer specifically to the matter of finance and I. would like to ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  a question about interpretation. Before doing that I would like to reply to the argument advanced about finance by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  The honourable member's argument was quite fallacious and I would have hoped that the Minister might have pointed this out. There is no substance in the honourable member's argument that because the headworks are not paid for by the farmer - because the farmer is subsidised by the taxpayer - the scheme must be uneconomic From the Commonwealth's point of view it does not matter who subsidises what. The Commonwealth is concerned with whether the total benefits at import parity prices are greater than the total cost of the scheme. The domestic arrangements made between the farmer and the Commonwealth and whether the farmer pays for the headworks or not are completely irrelevant to a national approach, lt may be that in this case the taxpayer is subsidising the farmer but the project still could be completely economic. I accept what the Minister said about the explanatory document, but it is most innocuous from our point of view. What wc want is the Commonwealth evaluation of this scheme. I have read all the reports that the Minister mentioner on the Slate views, but as everybody knows these are received by the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth makes its own evaluation on the criteria laid down with respect to balance of payments and development, and makes certain assumptions in relation to sugar. For example, what is the price of sugar, ls it import parity or world price or the domestic average price? What we want to know is why the scheme was justified in this way, and the information we seek has not been made available. 
In regard to delaying the Bill, I suggest that this is something that you,  Mr Chairman,  perhaps as  Deputy Speaker,  could look at. 1 moved an amendment at the second reading stage. I was somewhat surprised to discover that never in the history of this Parliament had such an amendment been passed. What would happen if the amendment had been passed is somewhat doubtful, lt could be interpreted politically by the Government that the Bill had been defeated. On the other hand if we read May. according to the practice in the House of Commons it could be interpreted otherwise - that it affected nothing but merely delayed the second reading of the Bill until a later hour or the following day and included the amendment as an addendum to the Bill. The problem lies in how this situation is interpreted. 1 would ask that at some time consideration be given to this aspect. 1 moved the amendment at the second reading stage because it did not seem that it could be moved as appropriately in the Committee stage. All the Opposition sought was to have information made available and. at. the same time, to support, the Bill. In other words if we lost the amendment we would support the Bill. Apparently our objective is difficult to achieve and the Standing Orders should be altered to permit what we sought. This was an example of the Opposition supporting the Bill 100% but seek ng more information. The only way to get it was to move the amendment at the second reading stage. 
On the question of finance I should like the Minister to explain what is meant in clause 6 by the words: 'reasonable progress'. The clause reads: 
The Stale is nol entitled to financial assistance under this Act unless thu Minister is satisfied that reasonable progress has been made by the Slate in carrying out the construction of tidal barrages and irrigation and ancillary works - 
I assume that what is meant by this is that a works programme will be set out for a period of time and that unless the complementary work is carried out by the State to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth there will be no grant for the Monduran Dam us such and everything will stop. 
Yes. They are the main points I raise. 1 should certainly like to take on the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  in respect of sugar, but the Committee stage is not the occasion for that. I will, however, say that sugar prices have been rising consistently and not falling in the last 12 months. 
Because wc can make it as good. The honourable member for Bradfield is about the biggest knocker in the Parliament. Last night when I was talking about the Bundaberg irrigation scheme we had to listen to him knocking it. He is now walking out of the chamber. As soon as we speak about primary industry he moves out. 
1 will admit that he is a Liberal member. I ask in all seriousness: What is the reason for imposing a 5c duty? Why should we not impose a complete embargo on the importation of foreign cheese? Surely this is one way in which we can help the dairy industry? I do not accept the fact that Australia cannot produce cheese of a quality which is equivalent to the cheese produced in Scandinavia, Czechoslovakia or the Baltic states. Even if we are not able to produce cheese which satisfies the eating habits of some people, as far as I am concerned as an Australian and one who supports the dairy industry in Australia, I can see no  reason why the Government should not alter the policy which has been in force for something like 30 or 40 years. The Government should, for the time being at any rate, place an embargo on the importation of cheese. Only $5m might be involved, but $5m is important to the dairy industry at present. 
The main purpose of this Bill is the amalgamation or diversification of dairy lands in the so-called marginal dairy producing areas of Australia. These marginal areas have been defined in general as being in the southwest of Western Australia, the southeast of Queensland and northern New South Wales. These areas have been defined as marginal areas for a number of reasons. From a physical or land use point of view the land itself is inferior in terms of dairy efficiency. The farms on this land may be highly efficient in terms of, say, production per cow, or lactation per acre, but they are too small. As a result, they are subject to what the Government has rightly called economic strangulation. There may be something wrong with the management of these farms or there may be a lack of finance. Whatever the conditions may be, there are in these marginal areas farms which have been defined as 'marginal farms'. 
The principal objective of the Bill, as defined, is to enable the low income dairy farmers who voluntarily wish to do so - the word 'voluntary' is, of course, of extreme importance to the whole working of this Bill - to leave the industry and receive a fair price for their land and improvements. Then, after writing off redundant assets, the land and useful improvements will be made available to other farmers so that those other farmers can build up their properties to a viable farm level regardless of whether it be for more efficient dairying or beef cattle purposes, afforestation or whatever it may be. That is the basic purpose of the Bill. It is a good objective. A marginal dairy farm has of course, to be defined within the terms of the agreement whichwas signed. In the case of the agreement which was signed between Western Australia and the Commonwealth it must be a rural property and have a minimum of at least 20 lactating cows. At least half of the gross income of the farm must be derived from the production of milk and, in the opinion of the Stale authority operating the scheme, the farm, if used wholly for dairying or purposes incidental thereto, is not really capable of producing to the level agreed between the Commonwealth and the State. In the Western Australian agreement the maximum level, in terms of this criterion, is taken as 12,000 lb of butterfat per farm per annum. Given this objective, and given the definition of a marginal farm, the operation of the scheme is then a matter ofa reentent betweenthe State andthe Commonwealth. Of course, I should think that each agreement with each State would be different, depending on circumstances. 
One of the most important provisions in the Bill is to enable marginal dairy farms, within the definition, in the whole milk zone to qualify. 1 suppose that in theory and in practice even in the highest dairy production areas in Australia one will still find some degree of marginality. This is usually the case in respect of most agricultural pursuits. On the perimeter there are farms that should not be engaged in dairy production but would be better employed in, for example, beef production, forestry operations or something else. One of the criteria for defining marginal farms in the whole milk area relates to the value of the milk at manufactured prices. It is important that this be stressed. Low income producers within the fluid milk sector are eligible to participate in the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme. At one stage there was some doubt that the possession of a milk quota might exclude a person from the scheme. I am glad to see that if this doubt had any substance it is removed in the Bill. If a dairy farm is marginal, the farmer voluntarily can sell out under the provisions of the legislation. 
Another important provision relates to the disposal of assets which are redundant. The incoming farmer will not be burdened with redundant assets. It is easy to criticise, but I would suppose that the most important criticism of the Bill is that it is not going to solve or even scratch the surface of the problems of the dairying industry today. I do not think it was designed to try to solve the great marketing problem. It was designed for one objective - to make more efficient use of resources that are employed either for the dairying industry or some  other industry. If we can get greater efficiency in primary industry in terms of resource use surely we are achieving something positive. For many years Western Australia has been a net importer. Although it is claimed that one of the deficiencies of this legislation is that it may result in increased dairy production in Western Australia one cannot blame Western Australia for wanting to be self-sufficient in dairy production, even though in respect of the whole of Australia there may be an increase in production. 
My specific criticism of the Bill is that it does not make provision for finance for the incoming farmer; it provides only for the outgoing farmer who can voluntarily sell his cattle and plant and receive a fair market value for his property through acquisition and compensation. But if his property is amalgamated with another property, what guarantee have we that the incoming farmer to whom he sells his property has the development finance to build up the farm? This is probably the main criticism that I can fire at this legislation. On the one hand the Bill is objective, but on the other hand it does not provide, other than through normal banking channels, sufficient money to enable a farm to be built up to a viable unit, whether it be for beef cattle, more dairy production or even, let us say, forestry. 
I feel, however, that the Bill makes a positive step in the right direction. Some people say there should be no reconstruction schemes, that the dairying industry should be allowed to look after "itself, that the normal laws of supply and demand will in themselves straighten things out. I do not share that view. I feel that the primary producers, particularly the dairy farmers and their families in marginal areas, are so entrenched in dairy production, which is their way of life, that even with this voluntary system it will be very difficult to entice many of them from their farms. We should not criticise- them for wanting to remain on their properties because this is their way of life. They want to live in this way. Although possibly they may not receive as much as the basic wage, many of them are happier than other people who work in the city. A good point about the Bill is that it provides for the voluntary surrender of a property. 
We must recognise that in marginal areas there are very large tracts of land that with known technology and within the known economics of dairy production simply will not be able to yield the required productivity per acre or per milking cow to provide a family with a reasonable living. I refer as an example to the south west of Western Australia, an area which has had a chequered history. It has never been much good in terms of efficiency so far as dairy production is concerned, although I hesitate to use the word 'efficiency'. The dairying industry in that area has not been able to use resources efficiently - put it that way. In fact the land resources in the south west of Western Australia have been grossly exaggerated in terms of soil fertility and productivity. There has been an underestimation in relation to the difficulties and cost of clearing and maintaining land in that area. Dairying was established in the south west of Western Australia before the introduction of phosphatic fertilisers and the subterranean clovers. Much of. the land is bad enough now even with the use of phosphate and subterranean clover, so one can only imagine how bad it was when the producers relied on native pastures in the sandy, light texured country before the pasture revolution came in. Scheme after scheme has failed in the south west of Western Australia. After the first World War the British Government financed migrants to come to the south west of Western Australia and a group scheme was started in 1921 at Manjimup. That scheme failed. I suppose the basic problem in that area now is that there is simply not enough good pasture on each dairy farm. 
I suppose that would be the simple way of defining it. There is just not enough feed over the 12 months of the year, tak:ng into account the seasonal nutritional stress, to give the required high plane of efficiency necessary on a good dairy farm. In northern New South Wales and south eastern Queensland we have the other 2 marginal areas of dairy production. In these areas the problems are reasonably well known. They are nutritional deficiency and, in south eastern Queensland, there is often the water problem. I suppose the best indicator of the marginality of these areas is the big scrub area of the northern part of New South Wales where on many farms there is a very low lactation period of around 5 months, according to the New South Wales Department of Agriculture, with an average butter fat per lactation of only 200 lb. Translated into production per acre, this is around 78 lb per acre per annum. In the Maclean-Clarence area it is approximately the same. 
South eastern Queensland is a major marginal dairying area, I cannot understand why the Queensland Government has not been part of the scheme because this is one area that will greatly benefit by the introduction of this reconstruction scheme. In south eastern Queensland there are large tracts of country which, no matter what technology is applied, are simply not dairying country. The quicker the dairying industry realises this the better because with a dry winter and dry spring and the recurring droughts and with known technology and water conditions there is just not the spread of lactation to make dairy farming efficient. On the other hand, there are large areas of south eastern and central coastal Queensland where marginal dairy farms exist which are capable of achieving high levels of dairying efficiency through reconstruction. This is what is needed. We need to be able to achieve larger farms, to have access to finance and to put the level of efficiency in south eastern Queensland on a higher plane. 
I agree with the Minister. I deal briefly with south-eastern Queensland finally because this is an area of some importance to me, being a Queenslander, and an area which I know reasonably well. As I said before, from my knowledge of the area and the work with which I have been associated in the area, I know that there have been very important breakthroughs with respect to pastures. The main emphasis over the years in pasture research in this area has been the search for tropical legumes which would produce a cheap source of nitrogen for pasture improvement. The dairying areas did not have this. Unlike Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia they did not have the tropical or subtropical legumes which are essential to sound dairy production in this area. First of all. a legume has to be found. It is necessary then to know the fertiliser requirements of that legume. It has to be nodulated with effective bacteria for the nitrogen fixation and it has to be grazed efficiently. Research is now showing this and given this knowledge and this type of scheme in Queensland there can be a very marked improvement in the plane of efficiency. 
I would like to deal briefly with this problem because it is most important to reconstruction in Queensland. Queensland has a small scheme for trying to promote increased production through pasture work. But I have a feeling that nitrogen will be one of the most important sources of pasture growth in these areas of Queensland in the future, particularly now that large plants, such as Austral Pacific, are coming into stream. Research has shown that even in the worst soils in Western Australia, clovers will fix something like 40 lb to 200 lb of nitrogen per acre. Research in Queensland, which before was most sceptical of finding any tropical legumes which would fix nitrogen, is now showing that this can be done. In fact, it was only recently that serious doubts about the value and efficiency of symbiotic nitrogen fixation was expressed. But the breakthrough now in the Departments of Agriculture and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is such that there is tremendous potential with sub-tropical and tropical legumes. 1 will mention a few of the legumes which I saw only a few days ago in some of the dairying areas. I saw these legumes in areas Where at the present time one farmer will have a lactation period of approximately 4 months, while his neighbours who have capital, imagination and management have a lactation period of approximately 84 to 9 months. This has happened through the introduction of such legumes as desmodium, indigofera. glycine, centrosema and stylosanthes. The CSIRO is now developing a strain of perennial Townsville lucerne. With the siratro and setaria pastures there is a revolution going on in some of these areas which previously were pronounced marginal dairy farms and which will remain marginal dairy farms until we can get some semblance of sanity in the Queensland Government by its accepting positive and sound schemes like these. 
Pasture research in grasses is just as impressive. I would say that at the present time in the coastal areas, the most important and spectacular grass is the pangola grass. With heavy application of nitrogen, experimental work is showing yields of dry matter ranging, on the latest experiments, between 3,000 lb and 23,000 lb of dry matter per acre. 
It could be used for beef cattle. This is possibly more efficient. The aim of this Bill is to encourage a more efficient use of resources. If we can get efficient use of resources, surely we are on the right track. I was talking about the pangola grass. In theory, anyhow, it means that 20,000 lb of dried matter per acre is equal to 3 beasts per acre. You are not going to get anything like that under commercial conditions. But this was land that previously was carrying 1 milking cow to 15 to 20 acres. 
I do not want to say anything more than that because I am in favour of the Bill. I think it is a positive step in the right direction. But I regret that it has taken 3 years to come to the party, for example, so far as the State of Western Australia is concerned, but at least it has now come to the party. After all, the terms and conditions provided in this Bill are favourable, so far as any State is concerned. No doubt the States are holding out for more money, but I would think that now that the agreement with Western Australia has been signed, if the other States have any sense at all they will come to the party very fast and get their share of the money before the period of 4 years expires. There is a limit to the time that any government can wait. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has informed me that Tasmania has agreed. I hope that Queensland will hurry up and agree, because it is one State that will benefit from this legislation. No Government can wait forever until the States negotiate and play behind the scenes to try to get a better deal from the Commonwealth, when in fact they have probably got the best deal possible. Surely they do not want the whole lot as a grant. After ail, they are getting half of it, if not more than that, in the long term as a grant. The main criticism that 1 have from the point of view of this specific Bill is that I believe it should have made some provision for the development of the resources for the incoming farmer. The Minister did mention the possibility of rehabilitation or retraining. This is an argumentative subject. Dairy farms are not cheap to buy even in the marginal areas. I do not know what the average price would be; prices would vary. But if a dairy farmer voluntarily sells his farm, unless he is heavily in debt, he and his family walk out with a substantial amount of money. What is the difference in principle between the position of the dairy farmer and that of the coal miner when the mine closes down, or the shop keeper in the corner shop, or whatever the case may be? If the dairy farmer voluntarily decides to sell his farm under favourable conditions and then a government is going to train him, surely it could be argued also that a government should train everybody who is forced out of a job. There is a limit on how far one can argue on this score. 
The main arguments I have with the Bill are, firstly, that it does not solve the main problems of the dairy industry. It is not designed for that. We admit that those problems are concerned with marketing. Secondly the Bill does not provide any finance to develop the resources efficiency on the flow-through of the incoming farmer.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Opposition supports the Bill as a positive move to overcome the sort of problems that we find in Western Australia. It is up to New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland to do something objective in respect of this matter in order to achieve at least greater efficiency on marginal dairy farms. 
This House is now required to consider a most important Bill, the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill 1970. It has been under consideration for some 3 years by the Government and now, at 12.50 a.m., we are to consider the expenditure of $25m.If this is the way a government runs- 

 - Mr Speaker, the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1970  is intended to amend the parent Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act in  2  major respects. The first is in relation to quotas which are a form of restriction on wheat production in Australia. The second is to give discretionary authority to the Australian Wheat Board to sell in Australia wheat for purposes other than human consumption at prices lower than the price for human consumption - in other words, lower than the price set within the terms of the stabilisation scheme itself for wheat for home consumption. 
As is well known now, a record production of wheat has occurred in Australia. This has caused very serious problems regarding not only storages for that wheat but also the disposal of it. It has been necessary for the wheat industry to restrict production or to accept a lower price for its products. The wheat industry has agreed  to reduce production voluntarily by a form of quotas - this being the responsibility of the States - and the Commonwealth has agreed to pay the same first advance payment of $1.10 per bushel. The State governments have accepted the proposal to reduce production. 
The Bill before the House will enable the Australian Wheat Board to operate on a quota pool basis. In the 1969-70 season, for example, wheat delivered within a grower's quota will become part of the quota pool. Wheat delivered in excess of his quota will be received as over quota wheat. It will not be taken in the 1969-70 pool unless, and to the extent that, it is sold and paid for in full during the season. 
With respect to the prices, as outlined in this Bill which amends the principal Act, the change proposed again is the result of further recommendations by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act. 1968 provides for a home consumption price to apply to all domestic sales of wheal whether as stock feed, for products for human consumption or for industrial use. In September of last year, as the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  points out in his second reading speech, the Federation asked for some amending provisions to be introduced with respect to the price of wheat in Australia. The complementary legislation was altered to give the Australian Wheat Board discretionary authority to sell wheat for slock feed and for industrial uses at a price below the going home consumption price of $1.71 per bushel for f.a.q. wheat in bulk f.o.r. ports but not less than the equivalent of the guaranteed price which for that season was 1.45 per bushel for f.a.q. wheat f.o.b. 
On 22nd May 1969  I  suggested proposals designed to allow surplus wheat to be sold for stock feed in Australia at prices below the high domestic price then operating. That price was $1.71 per bushel. I made the point that owners of starving stock in Australia were discriminated against blatantly because they were forced to pay a price based on $1.7) per bushel while, at the same time, the Australian Government, through the Australian Wheat Board, was selling wheat to overseas countries, including China, at prices well below the domestic price. On the one hand, for example, owners of starving stock in western Queensland were required to pay the domestic price based on $1.71 per bushel while, on the other hand, wheat of the same quality was being sold to overseas markets at $ 1 .45 per bushel. In some cases, the price could be less. 
When this proposal, based on a No. I pool and a No. 2 pool system for wheat apart from wheat for human consumption, was suggested to the Parliament, the Government said that it could not be clone, that such a proposal if adopted would wreck the whole wheat stabilisation scheme, lt could not be considered. It was said in fact that it would wreck the very solid foundations on which the whole of the wheat stabilisation scheme had been built. This appeared to be the official view of the Government. Now, the Government has performed a somersault. It has changed its mind. This has been known for some lime. Legislation complementary to this Bill has been introduced in all State parliaments wilh the exception, 1 believe, of Queensland. I am not certain whether complementary legislation has been introduced into the Queensland Parliament yet because serious drought has affected quota levels. 
We see that, in this Bill, the Government has introduced what was suggested here a long time ago. 1 think that this is a good system. Naturally, the Opposition is supporting it. The only basic difference between, us is on the subject of price. The only basic difference between the Government's view on this wheat for stock feed or industrial use and the altitude adopted by the Opposition is that we believe that the Australian Wheat Board should be given flexibility regarding the price at which the wheat is sold, even if that price is below the guaranteed price. 1 will be moving an amendment during the Committee stage to give effect lo that attitude. 
In many instances, in times of severe drought, if stocks of wheat are built up it may be good economics to sell that wheat at a price below SI. 45 per bushel. Certainly it is recognised thai this could have a serious effect on the coarse grains market in some periods. As a person who is in favour of stabilistaion und orderly marketing in all major industries, I think the time will come before very long when the coarse grains industry, as far as exports are concerned, will have to be stabilised in terms of controlled marketing in the same way as stabilisation has taken place in relation to practically every major produce industry which has been in trouble. We are seeing this happening today even perhaps in relation to the dairying industry. The need for flexibility is recognised. Prices on the coarse grains market could drop. This fact is recognised by me. However, in the long term, it would be most advantageous to have a flexible price for what is called unsaleable wheat, rather than to permit it to be stored indefinitely, and then to try to solve the problems of the ancillary effects on the coarse grains market in some areas. 
I propose to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. This amendment is identical to the amendment which 1 moved at the time when the legislation establishing the wheat stabilisation scheme was before the Parliament. I argued here that only I price should be agreed upon. Thai is to say, ] argued that we should not have a price of SI. 7 1 per bushel for all wheat sold domestically and a price of Si. 45 per bushel for wheat that was exported. This was a radical change in the whole system of wheat stabilisation since the inception of the scheme. The burden of additional costs has been borne by the low income earner - that is, the family which eats bread and eggs - instead of the Australian taxpayer making up any difference that is needed out of Consolidated Revenue. I move: 
That all words after 'Thai' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill bc withdrawn and redrafted to provide for a one-price scheme for home consumption and export wheat, being a price which will return to the grower $1.48 f.o.r. per bushel which is equivalent to a guaranteed price of $1,511 f.o.b. per bushel for exports up to a maximum of 200 million bushels from the crop of any season, to apply from the commencement of the  current  stabilisation scheme'. 
Three real droughts. I do not know where these droughts were. 
Certainly,  Mr Speaker.  The honourable member for Mallee says that he has had J droughts in his area in the last 25 years. I know of I major drought but the other 2 droughts he talks about were not droughts by any stretch of the imagination. He should go to western Queensland or Western Australia and see the droughts in those areas. They are what I call droughts. 
In Queensland today there is just as big a drought in some of the wheat growing districts as there is in pastoral areas. When huge surpluses are generated the Government should give serious consideration to the establishment of drought reserve banks based principally on 2 things - surplus grains and molasses. Molasses is a product of sugar cane and can be used on the same basis as grains. But there are 2 elements of tremendous importance in the feeding of starving stock, and we have (hem periodically in surplus supplies. Some areas of Queensland are highly susceptible to drought. I suppose we could say that in the post war period there have been 2 serious droughts in major areas every 5 years. This is about the average. 
There are people now in Queensland who are beginning to wonder whether this is the average pattern of seasons. But how can farmers survive under these conditions? 
I am putting forward the suggestion, using Queensland as an example, that this State has a magnificent system of decentralised railways. I am not saying that the railways are magnificent, but the geographical location of them in relation to the drought areas is such that by utilisation of the large surpluses from time to time, instead of letting them degenerate in the paddocks, and the excess capacity of rolling stock there is a case for consideration of the establishment of these drought banks in areas such as in the western railways system, the south west railway system and so forth. Losses alone of national income and export income in the areas of western Queensland and central Queensland due to drought - and this is a correct way to evaluate the situation - would more than 'justify in many instances the establishment of the insurance banks or drought reserve banks to take advantage of when we have periods of drought. I do not believe that they would pay in southern Australia because I do not think we would get, under known conditions anyhow, the high degree of susceptibility of drought that is experienced in northern New South Wales and large parts of Queensland, principally in the sheep areas. I put that idea forward - I have given it some thought and have done some work on it. The more work I do the more I am swinging to the conclusion that it is feasible - feasible in terms of economic justification. These drought banks, if I may so describe them, would be strategically located. We know the areas that are highly susceptible to drought. It is safe to say that the past pattern of drought in this country will be repeated in the next 50 years with some degree of consistency. One could be selfish and say that it is the turn of southern Australia to have drought, but we do not want to speak that way. Let us hope that we do not have droughts in the future but, having regard to the facts of life, we know that there will be serious droughts in Queensland. 
The quota system has caused some hardship to small producers. There is an inequitable distribution of quotas in terms of net income. Also, the delay in paying the second advance on f.a.q. wheat held in the 1968-69 pool is causing some concern to the small grower who is desperately in need of cash. The bigger grower may be able to hang on but the small grower wants more cash in his hand from that pool. Under the Act the Australian Wheat Board borrows from the reserve Bank sufficient funds to pay the first advance of $1.10 a bushel less freight. Until the overdraft is fully liquidated there can be no second advance. This system works when the industry is reasonably economic or self-sufficient in terms of net income but because the quota system has reduced the small farmer in many instances to the bread line, he wants every cent he can get his hands on. I would like to hear the Minister express an opinion on this matter. In these circumstances some consideration should be given to paying the second advance more quickly to those who need it. After all, it will be their money at some time. 
Yes. Under the present system the debt due for the 1968-69 pool is about $200,000. It is anticipated that this debt will not be repaid until early next year. So the second advance for the 1968-69 pool will not be paid until perhaps May or June 1971. This may not worry the bigger producer. If he has had a good season he may have enough fat to carry him through, but the small traditional producer, who has not had room to expand in the last 10 years, although he may have had a comfortable living, suddenly finds that his production is cut. He is the one whom the Government should bs considering by standing up to the big chiefs in the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. I say nothing against their integrity but they are on the side of the big producer, not the small producer. 
More and more in this Parliament we have witnessed sniping against primary industries. It is becoming rather common in every debate on primary production for members of the Liberal Party to snipe at the primary producers. Only the Country Party and the Labor Party have been consistent in their attitude of concern for primary industries. I would not mind if those members of the Liberal Party who engaged in this practice - not all of them are guilty - argued rationally or on the facts. For example, they make emotional speeches in the House condemning irrigation. According to them every irrigation system in Australia is uneconomic, lt would follow, I suppose, that every irrigation system in the world, according to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  is uneconomic. 
1 was making the point in passing. There is too much sniping by members of the Liberal Party at primary producers. There is more and more sniping at the wheat grower. I make it clear that there is a complete misapprehension about the financial assistance that has been given to the wheat grower by the Commonwealth. Because the first advance payment is made people think that hundreds of millions of dollars are being given to the wheat grower. The latest official survey of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics shows that only % of the average gross income of the wheat grower can be classed as a subsidy. The subsidy element in the gross income of 22,500 of the average farm, according to that survey, amounted to S300. So let nobody say that the wheat industry is highly protected. II is nonsense m make such a claim. In the years following the war the domestic price of wheat was deliberately kept at a level that would ensure that not all of our production was sold overseas, but today the wheat industry is in credit to the tune of a little less than 5400m. Do not take my word for this: take the word of people who have made a study of the matter, such as  Mr McKay,  former Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and a  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry. He has no axe to grind. He has publicly given these figures of the wheat industry's credit position. 
About 4 years ago. I am pointing out that in the survey conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, taking the last 3 years, lbc average subsidy paid in the case of a farm with an income of $22,500 was only $300. 
That amounts to 11% on gross income or 3c a bushel. I do not want to get onto the matter of tariffs again, but I will say- 
I was letting the honourable member go because he was making a most valuable contribution to the debate. 
I have never heard the honourable member for Wannon make a speech about primary industry, yet he sets himself up as one of the great liberal leaders in primary industry. 
I may have just gol here but you could have been- 

 - Mr Speaker, I will come back to the Bill. [Quorum formed.! I was pointing out that there are misconceptions about the level of financial assistance, commonly called a subsidy, which has been given to the wheat industry. I hope I established the fact once and for all that the wheat industry is one of the most unprotected industries in Australia. I moved on to compare it, for example, with the total cash equivalent that is paid to the manufacturing industries of Australia. Just to prove the point - these are the best estimates that one can get - the cash equivalent of the tariff of the manufacturing sector of Australia runs at somewhere in the vicinity of SI. 500m per annum. The total cash equivalent of all bounties or embargoes with respect lo primary industry in Australia is a figure around S280m. lt shows quite clearly that there is some degree of imbalance. But how often do we see the trouble shooters in the Liberal Party have a go at the tariffs? That is why I was sorry the honourable member for Bradfield was not here. 
Not to the same extent as primary industry. When one considers the contribution which the wheat, wool, beef, dairy and sugar industries have made to this nation's economy in terms of export income and in terms of decentralisation it is always necessary to understand that, despite the great potential of mineral development, for a very long time we will have to rely on rural exports to balance the books, taking into account current account and invisibles, to allow a high level of imports to be maintained. As I said before, there is a stimulating influence which seems to have crept into the Parliament in this session in relation to free traders - laissez-faire-ites. I am not one of them. 1 believe in protectionism and anybody who does not believe in protectionism should take a basic course in economics. That applies particularly to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  Let me make it very clear in the last few words I have to say that the Labor Party is implacable in its belief in protection for our primary and secondary industries, provided that resources are used efficiently. That is the measurement - provided that resources are used efficiently. That does not mean we cannot have a high tariff. Resources can be used efficiently. Of course, if one takes defence aspects, that is a qualitative matter that does not come into the argument. 
No. As far as the tariff is concerned the argument is not relevant to defence. If you want to manufacture Fills in Australia it would be very relevant in terms of economics. This Bill allows us to debate stabilisation at some length. I have attempted to range over a pretty wide field. I put forward this amendment to the 1 -price scheme and I will be making another amendment with respect to the flexible price. I will leave it at that. 
I refer to clause 8 which reads in part: 
After section 27 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - " 27a.  -  (1.) Notwithstanding the last preceding section, the Board may, in a Territory, sell wheat for use in Australia otherwise than in the manufacture of substances for human consumption al such prices as the Board determines, being prices less than the prices that would be applicable under that section, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than the minimum price applicable in accordance with this section. " (2.) The minimum price in respect of a wholesale sale of bulk wheat of fair average quality free on rails at a port of export is the price per bushel for such a sale that corresponds with a free on board price equal to the guaranteed price of wheat of the season that was current at the beginning of the year in which the sale is made. " (3.) The minimum price in respect of a sale other than a sale referred to in the last preceding sub-section is a price per bushel ascertained by adding to or deducting from the minimum price per bushel referred to in that sub-section an amount that makes a proper allowance for the quality of the wheat, the conditions of sale and the place of delivery. 
I move: 
In proposed section 27a, omit from sub-section (1.) all words after "determines," to the end of the sub-section and sub-sections (2.) and (3.). 
This amendment relates to the main provisions of the Bill dealing with the differential price to be charged for wheat. It is in respect of this point that there is a basic difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition. The Government believes that the price of wheat for industrial purposes or for stock feed should not fall below the guaranteed price of SI. 45 per bushel. The Opposition on the other hand believes that this should be a flexible price. I admitted this afternoon that this will have some effect on coarse grains prices. But on the other hand the scheme is being administered by the Australian Wheat Board, a body which has been lauded this evening in this House as being responsible in every sense of the word. Surely the Wheat Board is not going to be irresponsible with respect to the sale of  this particular wheat. It is going to sell this wheat al the best possible price it can gel in accordance with its responsibility. 
There may be plenty of circumstances in which the Wheat Board is stymied by setting a price of $1.45. We might have a serious drought and there might be a shortage of coarse grains when the owner of starving stock wants wheat urgently. Then here is this wheat surplus, but because of this legislation it cannot be sold below $1.45 a bushel. I think that the S1.45 is far too high in such circumstances. The price should be flexible to take account of special shortage conditions. There may be a desperate shortage of both coarse grains and wheat in some areas. The Wheat Board should then be able to sell Ibis wheat at a price of, say, 51 even. A price of $SI will cover the wheat farmer's variable costs and some of the fixed costs. It will be of advantage to the wheat industry. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  this afternoon said that he believed that the domestic price of $1.71 a bushel was too high. So do I. That is the purpose of the amendment - to reduce the price to a more realistic figure. As far as I am concerned the guaranteed price of $1.45 a bushel is far too high for stock feed when we are selling wheat at less than this figure overseas. I have submitted that the Wheat Board should be given some flexibility and should be able to sell this surplus otherwise unsaleable wheat, if necessary, in times when circumstances warrant it. If we are to adhere to the $1.45 as the minimum below which the Wheat Board cannot sell the wheat, the Board could lose valuable markets at certain times. That is the main purpose of this amendment. 
I have to say a few words about the differential between the guaranteed price and the domestic price. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has made the point that the Australian Labor Party believes that the cost of this subsidy should be shared by the taxpayers as a whole. We make no apology for that. The difference between the Government and the Opposition is basically this: The Government believes that the burden of the subsidy element should fall on the low income group, on the man with the big family whose children eat the bread and the eggs. The 
ALP does not. We believe that the subsidy should fall in terms of assessable income on all taxpayers. We believe that the burden should be spread over the whole community and should not fall entirely on the people who cannot afford to pay this subsidy. The domestic price of $1.71 is too high by world standards or by any other standards for the price of wheat today. The lower income group, the man on a small income, is in fact subsidising the wheat producer at present. We believe this is wrong. If the Government is to subsidise the wheat producer under stabilisation, the Federal Treasury or the taxpayer should be the one paying the subsidy and not the low income family man. That is the basic difference between what the Opposition believes and what the Government believes. I think I have made the point clear that I believe that a minimum of $1.45 a bushel could be a hindrance to the Australian Wheat Board, under specific circumstances of demand for feed grain. 
Progress reported. 
In conclusion, as I said before, these Bills are interrelated. They are machinery and policy Bills. The principles behind them are sound. One could argue perhaps that the Government should have introduced them some time ago. But, still, under the voluntary system, the scheme is working. The danger signals are there. The industry has acted. The Government has acted. The Opposition supports these Bills. 

 - Mr Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Dawson moving a motion relating to the export of merino rams. 
If the Standing Orders are suspended I propose to move a motion similar to that carried by a majority of senators on 29th April 1969. After all I assume that they have some part in the affairs of this Parliament. A motion to the same effect was supported by a majority of senators on 21st April 1970. The motion carried on 29th April 1969 was: 
That the Senate is of opinion that the embargo on the export of merinos should not be removed at this time and that the embargo should remain in force until a majority of those persons affected shall decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
That is the purpose of moving the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. In March last year, in a shock announcement to this Parliament, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  informed not only this Parliament but the wool growers of Australia that the Government intended partially to relax the ban on the export of merino rams from Australia, an embargo that had been in force- 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Is he aware of the negative and rather dictatorial attitude of the Australian Rugby League Board of Control in refusing to allow the Australian Broadcasting Commission to televise directly to the hundreds of thousands of sport loving Australians, including children, living in provincial cities and country towns an event which is ranked in Australia with the Davis Cup and the cricket ashes as one of the sporting classics? As organised sport is one of the best investments we have for promoting good will and assisting our youth to overcome the many temptations which exist in modern society- 
I know that  Mr Speaker  will agree with me - will the Prime Minister, in association with the PostmasterGeneral, use his best endeavours to arrange for the direct televising of the second and third tests, particularly to those areas which in no way can influence the gate? I stress that this is a sporting classic. 
One of the most iniquitous aspects of the clause with which the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  has been dealing is that the Government refuses the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation the right to construct not only in the States of Australia but in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory. What could be more retrograde or more negative than this? The Government has foreshadowed the introduction into the Parliament of a Bill relating to off-shore areas. If this Bill goes through the Parliament, it will mean that the Commonwealth will have control over these off-shore areas and will be responsible for all works off the Australian coast. Science is showing throughout the world the tremendous engineering aspects that are involved in the developing of our oceans in the field of ocean engineering. Under this Bill the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation will be refused the right to do any construction work in the Commonwealth Territories. I object strongly. This is a retrograde and negative step. 1 believe that any Commonwealth Government which refuses to allow this world famous authority to construct in its own Territories or in its own off-shore areas is to be condemned. 
Amendment negatived. 

 Mr SWARTZ (Darling Downs- Minister for National Development) [9.25!  -  I am sure that the Opposition will agree with the amendment that I will move because it is intended to extend the power of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. I move: 
Add at the end of sub-clause (S.) the following words: or the work required  for  the purposes ot the exercise of the function is to bc performed wholly or mainly in laboratories of the Corporation'. 
We believe that this amendment  is  required because clause 17 (5.), as it stands at present, states that no functions, including those that have been outlined  in  the previous part of the clause, will be exercised by the Corporation for private organisations unless a middle man contract is made with a consulting engineer. The restrictions with regard to carrying out work for private organisations can give rise to problems in the future operation of the engineering laboratories. In particular, there could be a problem in connection with the involvement with the National Association of Testing Authorities. This Association was set up in 1946 with the object of coordinating testing services available to the Government and industry, to ensure common validity of measurements, methods of testing and qualifications of staff. These objectives could be attained by encouraging laboratories to register on a purely voluntary basis. The laboratory could retain its autonomy and continue to perform its existing functions, but in addition would be licensed to endorse certificates for tests which would have Commonwealth wide recognition, provided that such tests had been carried out in accordance with the standards and procedures agreed upon by  the  Association. I think this is sufficient reason alone, apart from the other work in private fields, to extend the Corporation's authority and to allow, without the inhibitions of the first part of clause 17, the engineering laboratories to carry out this work in the private field. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
The principal object of the Bill which is before the House is to amend the Wool Industry Act in certain respects. The wool industry is without doubt the most efficient major export industry in Australia, but it is in serious economic trouble at present. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has set out in quite elaborate terras the various amendments which are proposed. The Opposition supports in general the Government's proposals. This Bill is a move in the right direction in that it will clear up some of the anomalies which have crept in over the years, particularly in respect to the allocation of funds to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for research purposes. 
The Bill has 3 main objectives. The first objective is to provide a greater amount of money for research and promotion purposes. At the same time there will be a reduction in the contribution which wool growers make to the research fund. The reduction will be from 2% of the gross proceeds of the clip to 1%. The second objective of the Bill is to change the procedure adopted in relation to the appointment of the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board and the 3 members of the Board with special qualifications. The third objective is a widening of the borrowing powers of the Wool Board itself in the field of the reconstruction of wool stores and the construction of integrated wool complexes. 
I shall specifically deal with certain aspects of the proposals in the Committee stage. I shall be moving a minor amendment in the Committee stage with respect to salaries and travelling allowances being determined by the Parliament and not by the Governor-General. This amendment is consistent with other amendments which have been moved and accepted in this House recently. I shall move this amendment because I believe that the Parliament and not the Governor-General should decide the level of travelling expenses and salaries of people employed by statutory authorities. 
One of the provisions of the Bill is for the actual determination of the apportionment of money contributed by the wool growers and the Government for wool research and promotion purposes. The Bill provides that the apportionment will be determined by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. At present the apportionment of the money is made by the Minister on the recommendation of the Conference. Another aspect of the Bill is that the Minister for Primary Industry will appoint the  Chairman  of the Wool Board after consultation with the Board itself. I do not know what the term after consultation with the Board' means in terms of the legislation and the application of it. I submit that this expression is almost meaningless. I suppose it means that the Minister for Primary Industry will have to consult the Board before deciding who will be the  Chairman.  It would seem that the Board has no influence whatsoever - no legal influence, anyhow - as regards the appointment of the  Chairman. 
The same argument applies in regard to the appointment of the 3 members with special qualifications to the Board because these 3 members with special qualifications will be appointed in the future by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Wool Industry Conference. Really all this provision means is that the Minister for Primary Industry will have to consult with the AWIC before appointing the 3 members with special qualifications. Once again I do not think that the AWIC will have any legal right in this matter. 
Another provision of the Bill is that the allocation of research funds to the CSIRO will be determined by the Minister for Primary Industry in consultation with the Minister for Education and Science. The Minister for Primary Industry will determine the level of grants to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. This is, of course, desirable because what it means is that the officers employed in the CSIRO and in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics are responsible to the Minister for Primary Industry through their respective divisional chiefs and permanent heads. They are, in practice, responsible at present but really the master who decides whether or not this type of research will continue fa the Australian Wool Board. It has almost complete say as to the amount of money to be allocated to the CSIRO and the BAE. However this particular provision in the Bill gives the Minister for Primary Industry the right to allocate funds to the CSIRO and the BAE; in the first instance in consultation with the Minister for Science and Education and in his own right in respect of the BAE. This is to be applauded because not only does it give security of tenure to the employers in both organisations but it also gives them greater freedom. They do not have to set out deliberately, as one might say, to be careful that they do not offend the Wool Board or certain members of the Wool Board. I am not suggesting that this would have any influence on the allocation of funds, but it is implicit in this type of legislation. 
Earlier I said that the Wool Industry is the most efficient large-scale exporting industry in Australia. It also is the industry which, in terms of paramount importance, is the one which is in the most economic trouble today. The importance of the wool industry is hard to measure in terms of the economy. It is difficult to explain simply how important it is. One of the best criteria for illustrating its importance is the contribution it makes to our export income which is the economic lifeblood so important to the health of our society. Approximately 25% of the total of export earnings from all sources originates from the wool industry. Last year the value of its exports totalled $853m. This, in itself, is not the end of the road because in arguing why it is essential that the Commonwealth Government must support to the hilt the wool industry one could ask what would happen if the wool industry collapsed. One of the best ways to answer the critics of the wool industry is to take an extreme and absurd case and ask if we abolished all tariffs and subsidies which industries in Australia would survive in their own right. Not too many would survive. The wool, grains, beef and mining industries would survive, but not too many other industries would survive. I doubt whether I could instance one major manufacturing industry that could survive. Manufacturing industries just cannot compete with the large through-put industries of other countries. If we abolished all subsidies and tariffs the beef and wool industries would survive and the people of Australia would have to become wool or cattle farmers or else leave the country because they would not bc able to secure jobs. There would be no major manufacturing industries. However, no-one expects this type of situation. We accept the principle of tariffs and we must accept, therefore, the equivalent of tariffs as they apply to primary industries. We should accept the principle of subsidies whether they be on inputs or direct subsidies, ft is essential that this be put in perspective. One of the most difficult things is to convince the critics of the wool industry the importance of that industry to the economy of Australia. We can forget about the influence of local consumption on the wool industry, because this is negligible. 1 want to deal with some of the issues in this debate. I take first the Australian situation. Let us have a quick look at it. In recent years wc have seen a remarkable expansion in wool production, but if there had not been this remarkable expansion the wool industry would have been sunk long ago. One only has to look at the increase in costs in the post-war years and relate them to the increase in prices or the decrease in prices - the so-called cost price squeeze - to realise that if it had not been for the remarkable and magnificent increase in productivity the wool industry could have been sunk long ago. Wool production is still increasing. The latest estimates show that production is now around the 2,000 million lb greasy wool level. This has been due, as many have pointed out. to higher lambing, the increased cut of wool per head or per acre and lower mortality. The importance of this industry to Australia is its contribution to export income. This is something which no critic can take away from the wool industry, no matter how they try. If it were not for the $80Om worth of exports there would be a recession in our major manufacturing industries today and there is nothing we could do about it, except devaluate or credit restrictions. 
The increased production has been disposed of and this is the most important difference between the wool industry and the foodstuffs industry. We can sell all the wool we produce, certainly at a price, but it does not necessarily follow that we can sell all the wheat or dairy products we produce, even at a price, because there is a limit to what a person can eat. Statistics relating to standards of living today have shown with respect to elasticities that even if we increased significantly our wool production there would be a market for quality wool at a price. This is a most important point in support of expansion of the wool industry and in support of financial assistance for the industry. We are assisting an industry whose product can be sold on the world market. If these criteria are adopted the arguments against assisting the industry fall to the ground. 
Australian prices are rather mysterious. They defy the laws of logic, as I see them, because if one looks at supply and demand and inflation in other parts of the world there should be a lift in prices in real terms well in advance of what the wool grower is getting today. To me there is no economic logic in the prices they are getting today. Certainly it can be argued that a lot of rubbish or poor quality wool is being sold, but this only cannot camouflage the position in terms of the total clip. There is something mysterious about world wool prices and how they affect Australia. There are some indicators which one can look to for a reason for the fall in the price of wool, but these are only short term indicators. 
If we look at the world situation we find that in the last 2 years world production of wool has increased at a greater rate than world consumption. It can be argued therefore that there may be a case for a slight reduction in the price of wool but not to today's level of prices. As I have said, the low price of wool in Australia defies the law of logic. The total level of world production has increased approximately 6,000 million lb of greasy wool. Production is up in Australia, Russia, South Africa and New Zealand. However, production in the United States of America, Argentina and Uruguay is slightly down. But while world production of wool is up, stocks of raw wool have shown a substantial decline. 
There has been a substantial decline in the stocks of the New Zealand Wool Commission. These stocks are mainly cross bred wools. As I have said, world consumption is up but consumption has not increased at the same rate as wool production. At least, this has been the case in the last few years. On studying this situation it is apparent that one economic influence which appears to be depressing wool prices is a noticeable slowing down in the rate of expansion of the textile industry in the face of substantial increases in production. This is what the figures show and I suppose it is all we can go on. There is a slowing down in the rate of expansion - not in absolute terms but in relative terms - to the degree that the rate of increase in expansion of the textile industry is less than the rate of increase in wool production. So, if the statistics are right this is 1 indicator which could suggest a reason for a slight decline in prices. 
Another influence which has operated, at least in the last 12 months, has been the uncertainty of the value of currency, particularly currency in Europe. Where one has high interest rates and a level of uncertainty wilh respect to currency the tendency is to dispose of all stocks pretty smartly. It could be that this type of exchange adjustment is having some influence also on wool prices. But there is no evidence to show that this is so - it is only a surmise. There is no reason to suggest that there is any slackening off in the demand for wool in key importing countries. There is no reason to suggest that there is a recess:on in these countries, particularly Japan. In fact, evidence to hand suggests that the Japanese economy is booming. I suppose it could be compared to the Australian economy. Japan is looking more and more to exports of textiles to earn export income just as Australia is looking more and more to wool exports to gain export income. There are satisfactory economic conditions in Japan and Germany and also, to a degree, in the United States. The value of raw wool exports from Australia in 1966-67 was $869m; in 1967-68, $762m; and in 1968-69, approximately $850m. Those figures illustrate the importance of wool exports. 
One matter I want to refer to which concerns me and which I hope worries the Minister for Primary Industry is the attitude of the tin ted States to Australia's primary producers. We were informed in the House today by the Minister for Primary Industry that there is a ban on the export of mutton to Canada. I do not know to what degree the Canadians are following the practice of the United States in this matter. It would seem that America is adopting a hardening attitude on all fronts against imports not only from Australia but from other countries. We could be in an unknown area here which could have serious consequences for Australia. Australia's best customer for wool is Japan. If anything happens to the export of Japanese textiles not only will Japan suffer but so too will Australia. We know that America is the only country that places a tax on imports of Australian wool. I lived in America for several years and I know the force of the farm lobby in Congress. I know how important and how powerful it is against imports. This lobby is working all the time on behalf of vested interests in America to try to minimise the level of primary products into that country. We see these pressures working constantly in the field of beef. We now see them in respect of mutton. We have seen this policy implemented in the form of a tax on wool. 
From reading it would now seem there is a hardening attitude by America towards the importation of textiles from Japan. I can see a dangerous situation here because 30% of our total exports of wool go to Japan. Australia relies on Japan as its main customer. If there is a hardening of attitude by the American Government towards Japan on wool textiles, Australia also will suffer. It would teem therefore that 2 main points arise from what I have said about the world scene and the Australian scene. The first point is that we can sell all the wool we produce provided we improve quality. Secondly, we can sell this wool at a price. I have made a comparison with foodstuffs, particularly wheat and dairy products. There is quite a different set of circumstances for those who argue that we should have tremendous stocks of wool on hand. We cannot sell this wool so I do not think this is a realistic argument. I just do not believe this argument is realistic unless it is related to certain prices. There is an increasing demand in the world for wool. 
I turn to the local scene. Of course reference has been made in this Bill to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The basic difference between the Government's policy and the policy of the Australian Labor Party on the AWIC is an important one. We on this side of the House, along with many influential sections of the wool industry, believe that the AWIC would be a much better organisation if it were elected democratically by the wool growers, in the same way as the Parliament is elected by the people, rather than being appointed in the way it is. I have not moved any amendments to this Bill to that effect because it is such an important decision and there would be no sense in moving amendments out of context. 
In the last few years, because of the deteriorating conditions of the wool industry, all types of proposals have been put up. I do not suppose there is another industry in Australia in which there is greater division of opinion and a greater lot of urgers, pressure groups and experts, lt does not matter what one does in the wool industry. The next day there always seems lo be a tremendous argument from somewhere against it. lt is an amazing thing. We seem to be able to argue rationally in other industries, whether it be the beef, dairy or honey industries, lt does not matter what one puts forward in the wool industry or how much support there is for it, the next day there will be an equal amount of opposition from all over the country from wool growers and wool brokers. It is a hotch-potch of a shemozzle to try to bring forward any scheme with any degree of unanimity. I must admit that I have never struck anything like it before  l  became involved with the wool industry. 
1 will not comment on that. At one time a price reserve scheme was put up. After a lot of deliberation a committee was appointed by the Australian Wool Board to inquire into this matter.  Lt  met frequently and came out in support of the reserve price scheme. The Minister then went to the Government and the Government of course, in characteristic fashion, decided not to act on the recommendations . of the Committee, lt said it would do 2 things, lt said it would appoint an interdepartmental committee. This is what I call the 'favourite stalling tactic' of the Government. It said that when the inter-departmental committee had made its deliberations it would put the matter to a referendum. I have little faith in referendums. 
I am talking about the reserve price scheme. 
Yes. I wanted one on that matter because that is a practical matter. The wool grower can work out whether he wants the rams to go or not, but we have all the pressure groups under the sun opposing the reserve price scheme. The whole matter became a pantomine.  Sir William  Gunn was stamping around the country hotly pursued by his opponents. Every move he made was countermanded. This was at a time when he was standing for a plebiscite in Maranoa. The whole thing was a farce. 1 think that if the wool grower had sat down and had carefully and rationally digested the elements on the reserve price scheme in 1965 he would have agreed to it. It is one of the worst things that has happened in this nation that the wool industry did not - I suppose it is all right to say this with the advantage of hindsight - agree by a majority to the reserve price scheme. Much progress would have been made in relation to quality, core testing and pre-sale sampling if the scheme had been accepted but it was not accepted. 
The Opposition has been considering this matter for a long time and finalised its policy today. It is a flexible policy in the sense that it recognises that dynamic changes have taken place in the wool industry. Our present policy is to establish a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the Australian wool clip on behalf of the wool growers. That was the decision taken today. At the same time we propose a reconstruction scheme to assist in the problems of production and the streamlining of selling methods. We also have under consideration at this time a proposal for tariff compensation which recognises the direct and indirect disability being imposed on the wool industry by high tariffs on manufacturing industry. It recognises that something has to be done to an export industry which is being penalised. The last plank of our policy was a fully elected AWIC. The statutory authority will be responsible for the acquisition, appraisal, marketing and distribution of the Australian wool clip and would be conducted on sound business principles. 
Yes, it does, because the Bill seeks an amendment to the wool Industry Act. The authority would be conducted on the sound business principles applicable to co-operatives. The authority would arrange for the acquisition and for the appraisal of the wool clip to be made in decentralised modern wool marketing complexes. In the interim period, wool would be appraised and catalogued by competent appraisers under the jurisdiction of the authority, in the short term, with the ready progression to pre-sale testing by objective measurement and equivalent scientific techniques designed to improve, standardise and streamline the preparation and sale of the clip. Inbuilt in the statutory authority is the minimum or reserve price plan. The only difference between this scheme and the reserve price scheme is one of degree. In the scheme that has been approved by my Party there will be provision, if necessary, for auction, private treaty, tender and for bilateral agreements between Australia and some other country, for example, Japan. 
I will tell the Minister that. Financing will be basically the same as for the reserve price scheme. A revolving fund will be financed in the end by the wool grower but in the interim period by the Commonwealth. It could be argued that there should be no Commonwealth finance backing it and that the authority should operate under a reserve price scheme until the industry itself can finance the authority. This would take 5, 6 or 7 years. My Party believes that the urgency is such that it is essential that a statutory authority be appointed for acquisition purposes as soon .as possible so that it can commence operations for the acquisition and marketing of wool. Wool that was not sold because it did not attract the reserve price would be taken over by the authority at flexible prices. In some circum stances it would be equal to the reserve price: in other circumstances it would be a percentage of the reserve price. So it is flexible in that respect. The capital fund would be guaranteed initially by the Commonwealth Government by loan until all the authority's funds were fully subscribed. It would then have to be repaid. All profits after working expenditures and the provision for normal reserves would be returned to wool growers each year. That is the basis of the proposal. It would be a statutory authority to acquire, to appraise, to market and to distribute the wool clip, a single marketing authority incorporating the basic elements of the reserve price scheme which was rejected by referendum. That is the basis of it. 
Not as far as the Opposition is concerned. The Government, if it believes this scheme is good, should have implemented the scheme in 1965. If it had done this the wool industry would have been in a far superior position today. As far as I and my Party are concerned it was made clear in the policy speech in 1 966 that the scheme would be implemented without delay because the tremendous power in this country of the wool brokers and the textile industry is such that there seems to be unlimited money to oppose anything that anyone puts forward by way of statutory authority or anything which would weaken the control which the wool selling brokers and a section of the textile industry have over the wool producers. 
Debate interrupted. 
I was dealing with a proposal for the establishment of a statutory authority with an inbuilt minimum reserve price plan. I was giving details of the workings of it. I said that the Labor Party had under active consideration proposals for a tariff bounty. The wool industry is Australia's most important export industry. It is recognised as the classic example of an unprotected export industry. The economic stranglehold which is being applied on the viability of wool production, particularly in the case of the small wool producer, is due in large measure to rising costs in association with low or unsatisfactory wool prices. It is recognised that the wool industry is adversely affected economically by tariffs. Some economists have measured the degree of disability at 8% on cash costs and up to 20% on total costs including imputed costs. 
No. It is recognised that the wool industry receives assistance in respect of imports. In the determination of the cost disability these concessions, in the form of bounties on farm imports and the like, would have to be taken into account in order to determine the total liability or total disability. Let us remember that the wool grower sells practically all his product at world prices. He earns $800m or 25% of Australia's total export income. That export income is vital to Australia's growth, particularly as it allows for the imports of capital and consumer goods which are essential to the economic welfare of the labour intensive manufacturing sections which are highly protected by tariffs. Although the wool grower has to accept world prices for his product he is forced to purchase his essential imports at domestic prices which are affected by economic growth in Australia, by inflation and by tariffs. To put the matter simply, how do we answer the wool grower who comes to you or to me and asks the simple question: I have to sell my wool to Japan but I have to buy my spare parts, my chemicals, my urea and so on at the domestic price. How do I overcome this problem?' This is the essence of a disability being suffered by the exporter and it is time that something was done about it. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What action does he intend to take regarding the political and constitutional position in the Northern Territory which led to the absence of a quorum in the Legislative Council on the morning of 6th May 1970. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Have the grievances of the Northern Territory Legislative Council been considered by him or by the Cabinet 
If so, have decisions been reached. 
If decisions have been reached, when will they be conveyed to the Legislative Council. 
 You do agree, I take it, that the Government is of the opinion that it should be the Parliament and not the Governor-General? 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
It was my intention to move an amendment to clause 18, inserting the word Parliament' instead of 'Governor-General'. The Opposition believes that the Parliament should decide the level of salaries and allowances. However, 1 am informed that if the amendment were accepted it would mean that the salaries of members of the Australian Wool Board, for example, would cease until the next budget. There is no alternative under those circumstances but to withdraw the amendment. 
The Loan (War Service Land Settlement Bill) is one of those Bills which come before the Parliament each year in order to authorise the raising of loan funds. This Bill this year relates to the authorisation of loan funds amounting to $4. 5m for war service land settlement in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania during the 1969-70 financial year. As indicated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  the money will be made available to the 3 States concerned as follows: Western Australia, $l.9m; South Australia, $ 1.964m; and Tasmania $654,000. Of the estimated requirement of $4.5m, about $4m will be needed directly by the settlers to finance working expenses, for stock and for plant, wherever necessary. As was stated, this sum of $4m is expected to be matched by repayments of advances made to settlers during the early years of the scheme. 
This debate is held each year and honourable members on both sides of the Parliament take the opportunity to refer at length to some of the experiences of the preceding 12 months or those experiences which have become apparent as the years go by relating to the specific problems of closer settlement, particularly war service land settlement. I now move the following amendment to the motion: 'That the Bill be now read a second time': 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a Select Committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of War Service Land Settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement scheme'. 
The Rural Reconstruction Commission met during the closing stages of World War II, and after the war, and very thoroughly investigated the performance of war service land settlement in Australia after World War I. It met with the admirable object in mind of attempting to ascertain the great mistakes made after World War I. The war service land settlement scheme was referred to commonly as a disaster, lt was the aim of the Commission to see that those mistakes were not repeated after World War II. 
The Rural Reconstruction Commission laid down certain guidelines which would help the Commonwealth and the agent States concerned with the war service land settlement scheme. In the main, many of the guidelines laid down proved to be of great value. Then it became apparent that there were serious problems in the field of war service land settlement closely associated with any closer settlement scheme, such as it was. Although the basic assumptions underlying the commencement of the scheme by the Commonwealth and the agent States were such that the guidelines were principles to be followed - and they were followed - it became apparent very soon after the first settlers went onto the land that problems were arising. Those problems have become magnified in certain areas, of course, and in certain farming industries and land types. 
The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  will follow me in this debate on behalf of the Opposition. He has lived with this problem in Tasmania, at King Island, for the past decade. He knows the great difficulties being suffered by soldier settlers in that part of Australia. He has mentioned those problems in this House on many occasions, not only on behalf of the settlers but also on behalf of all people concerned with closer settlement. 1 do not think there is a more emotional type of activity carried on by a government than closer settlement, particularly when it involves taking land from one person to give to another. One of the first jobs I had when I joined the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in 1949 was to go to Coomealla in connection with certain problems of war service land settlement in that area. Emotionalism was not as great a problem there as it was in Western Australia and the grazing areas of New South Wales where large tracts of land simply were taken away, sometimes at quite unfair prices so far as the owners were concerned; nevertheless the problem was emerging. There have always been the knockers who have said that land settlement would fail. Every closer settlement scheme that has been undertaken in Australia has been criticised by these people. Of course, some of the schemes have failed; there is no doubt about that. The one thing that can be said about war service land settlement after the Second World War is that it illustrates the lack of adequate planning. Adequate planning is essential in land settlement and 1 will deal later with the closer settlement scheme in Queensland known as the brigalow scheme for which there was planning over a great number of years. Before any closer settlement was actually adopted most of the basic answers were known. 
In a war service land settlement scheme it is difficult to know at any point of time what the variables will be. The size of the farm itself is material. No person can accurately predict whether, because of its size, it will be a success. Ten years ago sheep properties running 3,000 sheep were in a reasonably good financial position, but today, because of the increase in costs and the static or declining real price of wool, properties of the same capacity are on the breadline in terms of income. This has happened to a lot of war service land settlement people. When the size of the farms was determined just after the Second World War the determination was based on conservative estimates and favoured the settler. We did not want peasant farms; we wanted larger farms or middle sized farms. But nobody could forecast what would happen in terms of the 2 crucial variables - costs and prices. The cost-price squeeze which has hit heavily major sections of the primary industry has also hit war service settlers. As has been pointed out in this House time and again, it does not matter how efficient a farmer might be in terms of productivity per acre, per manhour or net income per acre or whatever it might be, unless he has sufficient gross income which is directly correlated to the size of his farm he will be unable to support his family at a reasonable standard of living and amortise his assets in the farm. 
I just mention these variables in passing. 1 am quite certain that everybody learns by mistakes and that the administrators of the war service settlement scheme have also learnt by the mistakes which they have made. Just after the War there was a tremendous amount of emotional pressure exerted on governments to settle people on the land. On the one hand there were the ex-servicemen returning to civilian life who wanted a piece of land. They saw the big grazing areas which were often held by the landed gentry and this is the land upon which they fixed their eyes. Tremendous pressure, particularly in New South Wales, was applied on governments to cut the land up as fast as was possible so as to get those men and their families on the land. One basic fact which must be learnt from any closer settlement scheme whether i. be a war service or civilian scheme is the great need for financial equity. The person who goes on the land today with practically no money is heading for disaster. This is something which all governments and all political parties should heed. It is just airy fairy idealism to think that a person can develop land today with a small amount of money behind him. 
I suppose that in the history of all civilian land settlement schemes in Australia the lack of money to develop the land has been the most important factor which has caused failures. Even in the highly favourable brigalow scheme - highly favourable in terms of planning and resources - a few failures have occurred. Those failures were due principally to the fact that the people did not have sufficient capital when they first went on to the land. Then came the drought period and the people were even more heavily in debt. It took those people some years to recover from the effects of the drought, and, faced with the large principal and interest repayments, they had no chance of recovering. In effect, they had a chain around their necks and they had no possible hope of recovery. 
I think I have said sufficient to illustrate the point that in any closer settlement scheme it is essential to have proper planning. It is for that reason that I wish to refer further to the brigalow scheme. That scheme was rejected as a war service land settlement scheme for a number of reasons, including technical ones; yet it consists of the greatest areas of undeveloped fertile soils in Australia. One day it will be the richest agricultural livestock area in Australia an a large scale, under dry land conditions. The soils, as we know, are amongst the most fertile in their natural state in Australia. Despite the temptation  to  rush into the scheme and to pull down the brigalow it was not until the1960s that both the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government had sufficient technical knowledge and planning know-how to reach a decision that the development of the brigalow for closer settlement would be a success. Let us contrast it with some of the other closer settlement schemes, including war service settlement. In the first instance there was the virgin brigalow - Acacia harpophylla - which is a tremendously difficult wattle to handle. They are colonies of trees through their root system, and if they were ring-barked there would be immense re-growth. If the scrub were pulled the same thing could happen if there was not a successful burn. There were technical problems which had to be overcome. 
I recall in 1950 going to a place called Cypress Downs which is very close to where the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  lives. The first experiment involving hormone spraying of brigalow took place in that district. The experiment was carried out in conjunction with the Queensland botanist Selwyn Everest. It was a partial success in terms of killing the parent trees but the re-growth was such that it ruled out this type of large brigalow eradication. After that initial experiment further experiments were made until it was realised that the only successful way to clear brigalow country was with ball and chains, or chains alone, to stack the timber in wind rows, to get a good body of native pasture and then to get hot burn. If the finance were available the land was then ploughed. That was the only successful way to eradicate the re-growth of brigalow. Alternatively if a person had good animal husbandry conditions he could stock the land heavily, particularly with sheep, and control the suckers in this way. 
The second step involved work by agricultural scientists and economists on testing the economics of the carrying capacity ot the land itself and the productivity per acre or number of acres. This went on for a number of years in various parts of the brigalow country. I can recall going to a place called Giligulgul in Queensland where one of the first men to do crop fattening of cattle on brigalow land was considered by many people to be a crank. He was called a crank because he put the plough into brigalow soil. That was unheard of in that part of the country. The only people who ploughed were farmers, not graziers or cattle men. But this man soon showed the people in the Miles district who was making the money. The same thing happened at Cypress Downs at Bendemeer. The plough went into brigalow soil. This then became the commercial answer to the experimental tests. It showed quite conclusively that the development of this type of soil under those conditions was a most successful operation. 
From there on the experiments spread further into the lighter rainfall areas with the different types of brigalow - the acacias, wilgas and other varieties like that. Over a period of years it became apparent that this type of country was suitable for high productivity. In its virgin state it was running about a beast to 60 acres and under most difficult conditions. Brigalow trees can grow to a density of six thousand trees an acre. The costs of clearing were very low. The people who were clearing with D8 and D9 tractors, and later with chains, soon showed the others in the area what could be done. The low cost clearing in association with excellent soils, the quick establishment of Rhodes and other grasses produce a heavy carrying capacity in comparison with the virgin areas. The stage was set for a major closer settlement scheme, but that stage was not reached until the technical and scientific planning had been finalised. 
The next step was for the agricultural economists to come in and give their verdict not only on the scheme and the different soil types but also on whether or not a farmer who went there would be successful under certain assumptions. This was done in conjunction with people skilled in transport economics. Good roads were essential. The whole scheme crystallised into a major civilian land settlement scheme. It was thoroughly investigated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in conjunction with the State departments. The end result was a Cabinet decision. The right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  was the Minister in charge of the scheme at the time. A Cabinet decision was given to go ahead with this civilian scheme. If there is one criticism of the brigalow scheme it is, as I said before, that there is a great temptation for people to go onto the land today without having enough capital. To develop fully for agriculture a block of 12,000 acres, 50% of which contains brigalow, would cost, over time, Si 50.000. Any person starting from scratch and trying to amass that amount of money on credit has not got a hope. What he does is struggle along, hoping that it will rain and that prices will stay up. If anything untoward happens, as it did in a closer settlement scheme that had 2 years of drought, the unfortunate people without capital reserves simply become further and further in debt. But this does not detract from the efficiency of such a scheme when there is proper planning. The people who had finance behind them, as was the case with the war service land settlement and brigalow, have not looked back, unless there was something physically wrong with the property. 
The brigalow scheme will be one of the most successful closer settlement schemes in Australia because it was properly planned and was based on scientific research over a number of years. The one thing which could make a project fail would be the farmers having insufficient money behind him. The absurd practice of trying to settle people without money on the land must be stopped. It is no good saying that the Government will give them loans at low interest rates or at no interest charge. If they have not enough money to go on to the land now and do the basic work and have some cash reserve the chances of failure are very high. Yet large numbers of people come, I suppose, to every member of Parliament, point to some fellow and say: 'Look, he has too much land. Why can I not have some of it?' The answer is: 'You can buy some of it if you want to and are prepared to pay the price.' The next thing they say is: 'I have not any finance. I want to get some money from the Development Bank.' One has to sit down patiently, show them a set of figures and budgets, and tell them that they are facing a hopeless proposition without adequate finance. The days of the axe and the bark hut and living off the land are over. One has to have finance to go into any settlement scheme, whether it be a war service land settlement scheme or a civilian land settlement scheme. 
The reason for moving this amendment is that there are lessons to be learnt from First World War experience and Second World War experience, and from other closer settlement schemes in Australia such as Humpty Doo, Esperance and the brigalow scheme. We have living examples to compare and to learn from. The amendment is designed to enable us to sit down and study past experience so that guidelines can be laid down for the future and so that we can learn from our mistakes. In conclusion I want to say one thing about closer settlement. As I said early in the piece it is an emotional type of objective. I suppose that everyone who has some leaning towards the land would like to own a farm. Of course, a lot of people on farms these days would like to get off them. It is a way of life which is recognised only by those who are close to the soil. Great philosophic arguments are starting to develop about the size of farms. Other than markets, the most urgent, pressing problem for this Government or any State government is the position of the small farmer. That is the case not only in Australia but also overseas. What is to become of the small farmer? All political parties are on his side; he is regarded as the salt of the earth, the backbone of the nation. We must protect the small farmer. I have said so myself and I think it is a high ideal. When one looks at the cold, hard facts of economics and technology and the substitution of capital for labour one has to face the fact that the small farms must become bigger. There is no other answer. I do not mean that they must jump in size from A to Z, but the small farm must become bigger. 
This problem faces the sugar industry, with which I am closely concerned at 'he present time. The small farms are efficient but costs, including labour costs, are going up. When one substitutes capital for labour by buying harvesting machines worth about $25,000 to $30,000, the farmer finds himself pressed financially. The rates of interest, depreciation and amortisation are such that these people will be down the drain in terms of repayment unless they can get good seasons every year. But if they amalgamated with their neighbours they would become more efficient in terms of the use of resources and in terms of net income. 
How do we tell people these things? lt is a most difficult thing to do. This is a way of life for them. Yet, closer settlement is something which, in some areas such as the brigalow areas in Queensland that I have mentioned already, still should be carried on. This can be done, provided the properties are not too small. Let me point out the fallacy in this respect. The fault of many closer settlement schemes has been to try to settle too many people on the land. It is far better to have 20 prosperous farmers than to have 23 starving farmers in the one area. It might be just one or two extra farms which makes the difference in planning. 
This problem must be faced. It is no good running away from it. We are all guilty in this respect because we often put politics before facts. It is up to us. We must face the fact that, in every primary industry in Australia today, the size of farms, particularly the situation of the small farmer, is becoming one of the most impressive problems. Irrespective of what government is in power, a decision which forces people to amalgamate will not be one seen favourably by those people. This does not mean that 1 believe necessarily in the plantation type of agriculture. I have this type of agriculture in my own area. It is highly efficient. One has only to go to the estates at Fairymead and Bingera to see it in operation. 
If one looks at the computer work carried out by the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. at the stage when consideration was being given as to whether sugar could be grown on the Ord River - not economically but physically - the agronomy study snowed that the optimum size of an irrigated farm was of the order of 500 acres. That finding would absolutely shock most cane farmers. A cane farmer would be shocked to be told that that was the best size for a sugar farm. But when heavy capital involvement in plant and machinery was taken into account, it became evident that this was a sound answer. Would the Government put forward a proposal such as this? We are all politically biased in this regard. We try to settle on the land in a certain area as many people as we can. 
This has been the greatest possible mistake that has been made in closer settlement schemes throughout the world. 
What is the answer? In closer settlement, if an area is made too big, we are criticised. If an area is too small, we are criticised also. I remember the position that arose in relation to the brigalow scheme. The Queensland Government wanted the average size of each holding to be based on 800 head of beef cattle. The Commonwealth Government showed imagination and courage here, lt did not take long for the Commonwealth through its officers and their investigations to convince their equivalent officers in the Queensland Government that that type of property was doomed to failure in the end if anything serious happened to beef prices. Farms of that size would operate with a too high risk factor. The result was a substantial increase in the area of each block so that those farms could almost double their carrying capacity. This meant, in terms of net income, that instead of having a dozen struggling blocks in that scheme we have 7 or 8 prosperous ones. The Brigalow scheme has proved to be highly successful. 
I wish to conclude on that point. There are lessons to be learned in regard to closer settlement. We, both in government and opposition, can and should learn from the mistakes of the past. We should try to see that these mistakes are not repeated. The variables in agriculture are such that no person is able to say at this time which is the best type of farm to get into in terms of agriculture. No-one is able to say what is the right size for a farm. We do not know what will happen to wool through the use of synthetics or what will happen to the beef industry because of the use of synthetics. Already, synthetic products are on the market - soya beans and so forth - which are substitutes for beef. 1 have tasted some of them. I did not like them. The point is that, every time prices come into consideration, people seem to develop tastes for such substitutes. One thinks of the position with margarine and butter. People have developed these tastes. Once substitutes are introduced, it is the thin edge of the wedge. Has anyone the right to stop them? Again, that is the question. 
Have we the right to stop margarine coming into the country to replace the market for butter? 
My views on this matter are well known. As long as this country has large settlements which are dependent on the dairy industry for their existence and where jobs are involved, an obligation exists to support that industry unless some equivalent alternative is proposed. This is a difficult problem. I emphasise that the problem is the great difficulty in being able to forecast accurately in advance what will happen in terms of land. Any person who goes on the land today goes on under a great risk. If that person goes on as a new farmer with insufficient capital, the chances are that, unless he is favoured in the first 10 years of development with good seasons and reasonably good prices, he runs the grave risk of failure. This has been the history of closer settlement schemes throughout Australia since the first such schemes were started. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Is the amendment seconded? 
 I have listened carefully to the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  Both of them were most critical of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr. J. F. Cairns)  for his approach to tariff making policy. But there is one thing consistent about the honourable members for Corangamite and Wakefield: They are always consistent in that they invariably attack the tariff and they always attack subsidies. It is all very well to attack high tariffs and high subsidies, but what about putting up some alternatives? These 2 members of the Liberal Party are fast becoming known as something like the terrible twins in the free trade block - the free traders. This type of philosophy is commonly employed by economists who want to knock things. One can always adopt an ad hoc approach to something and come up with the questions: Why do you not have margarine instead of butter as it is cheaper? Why do you not import something as it is cheaper? But the important point is that free trade economics went out with the industrial revolution. Today other countries, even the undeveloped countries, are finding that they have to protect their secondary and primary industries. The honourable members for Corangamite and Wakefield were most happy, apparently, with the Government's decision with respect to manmade fibres because it meant a reduction in the tariff. On the other hand, they were most unhappy with the Special Advisory Authority's report on oil seeds because the tariff was increased. Now, as a test, I would be most interested to listen to the honourable members when we debate in this Parliament - if we debate it of course - the margarine issue, because that it where one really comes down to the facts of life about protection. But that is not the subject of the debate tonight. I have tried to find some reference by the honourable members for Wakefield and Corangamite to the margarine issue, but I have not been able to find it yet. That is a test of the sincerity of the line which the honourable members have been following. 
No, I will not go outside. The honourable member for Wakefield made the point, which is quite valid - and I suppose it is a mild critisism of the Department of Trade and Industry and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwan)  - that there are not enough facts and figures from which intelligent decisions can be made on Tariff Board reports. The honourable member for Wakefield was very laudatory in bis remarks about the Tariff Board report on man-made fibres. I have read the document and it is a good report in terms of providing information. But I fail to see - and I will be interested to hear this at the Committee stage - how the honourable member for Wakefield can say that the report is an excellent economic analysis. They are the words he used. When a far reaching decision to reduce something in quantitative terms is reached, one would expect that the theme throughout this Tariff Board report would in fact be a quantitative economic analysis. I do not mean an analysis in the most minute detail, but certainly an economic analysis and not just opinions or judgements. This is the matter to which the honourable member for Lalor referred and I endorse what he said. 1 am one of the Opposition members who takes a critical view of tariffs. If I thought the decision in question was right 1 would not hesitate to say so here but I do not think it was right. On many occasions in this Parliament I have given my views about high tariffs. After reading the report, I am not convinced about this excellent economic analysis that the honourable member for Wakefield mentions, because I cannot find where it is. Perhaps he has data we do not have, because it is certainly not contained in this report. I understand an economic analysis to be something that arrives at or deduces a decision. To support my argument. I will give examples of the terminology on which the conclusions about man made fibres have been reached. The reports states: 
The main opportunities for the local industry to supply a greater share of the total market for man-made fibres will be in noncelllulosics 
The point is that this is a fact that is known; there is no argument. The report continues: 
Throwsters have greatly increased their capacity to process nylon and polyester yarns and new processors have entered the industry. 
That is a fact about which there is no argument, but we do not get anywhere by having just those 2 statements. I now come to the following profound and important statement in the report: 
Generally, producing industries under review have been operating at a higher level of profitability than was apparent at the previous inquiry. 
Where in this report is that contention proved? All we have is that generalisation. lt is most important that we know the answer to that question. 1 do not agree with the proposition that, because an industry happens to be operating at a point of time at a profit, it necessarily follows that its protection can be reduced. In fact, quite the reverse can apply. The industry could be increasing its profit while still having a sound case for increased protection. The classical infant industry approach is this: A small expanding industry may be getting more and more efficient but may still need time and more protection. The report continues: 
As a result there appears to be a need for the local industry to keep abreast of overseas developments. 
The point is that the report should st-ite there is' instead of 'there appears to be' because, when one looks at the technological change and innovation in the fibre industry overseas, one sees that there is no doubt that we have to keep abreast. 1 now come to the type of argument in Tariff Board reports that worries me. and it is typical. The report slates: 
There is no reason to doubt that the industries under review are in general technically efficient. 
This is an important statement, lt is said that without a shadow of doubt they are efficient. Well, 1 suppose that one has to accept this as being true, for it is the considered opinion of the Tariff Board, which has gone into the question thoroughly. However. 1 again make the point that if the Board is to make and the Government is to endorse important decisions on the Tariff a more through analysis has to be made on the economics of the case. 
When reading this report, unless one reads the conclusions first - I think the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  mentioned this - it is nol until one starts to see through a few of the generalisations such as I have read out that one can have a bit of a bet on which way the Tariff Board will decide. This is not good enough. In a properly quantitative analysis hypotheses have been developed based on the evidence available and, step by step by deduction or whatever it might be, the case is built up to support the conclusions. However, this is not available here. I am not criticising the members of the Tariff Board, because perhaps it is physically impossible for them to do this with the resources available to them, lt may be that because of some type of secrecy Act they cannot go ahead and produce in detail the quantitative arguments to support their analysis; but, if we in the Parliament have to make judgments or have to endorse far reaching  decisions  of the Government such as this one, we are entitled to know more detail. 
One of the points made by the honourable member for Wakefield and certainly by the honourable member for Lalor is that it is about time we had a more thorough discussion in this Parliament and a debate with the responsible Minister for Trade and Industry taking part. After all, he is the Minister in charge of the Tariff and responsible for policy making in respect of the Tariff, which is one of the most important influences in the economy today; but the appearances of the Minister in the Parliament are becoming less and less frequent, particularly on the subject of the Tariff. 
The other thing 1 am disappointed about tonight is the lack of interest in this debate by the Country Party. If there is one subject of which the County Party ought to take very close notice it is the Tariff. I would have hoped that its members would have taken some part in this debate, because a high tariff policy is diametrically opposed to Country Party policy where exports are involved. 
The honourable member knows that it is right, arguing broadly. I think that to get a good debate in this Parliament on tariff we should have the classical Country Party view. An export industry such as the wool industry, for example, is a magnificent example of what could be quoted by the Country Party to show how an industry is being penalised by the Tariff. We could have had a debate on this, but the members of that Party are quiet about it. Instead of getting the Liberal view and the Labor view, we could have got the Country Party view. One very enlightening point that I have noticed in this Parliament is the very fresh approach flowing through it with respect to the Tariff. This is not only because more people are taking notice of it but also because more industries in Australia are starting to be hurt by the Tariff. 
I think that basically the whole structure of industry in Australia is changing. After the depression we had only a few manufacturing industries affected by the Tariff, which did not make much of an impact on the economy of Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 11.30 p.m. to 12 midnight 
Friday, 12 Jane 1970 
Before the sitting was suspended I was making the point that after the last depression when tariff protection became an important part of economic policy in Australia, the effect of the tariff was rather small because the manufacturing sector was responsible for a relatively small part of the national income and played a small part in the earning of export income. But the manufacturing sector became more and more important after World War II and it has been growing ever since. It was not until the report of the Committee of Economic Enquiry - the Vernon Committee - that there appeared the theme of analyses made by men like  Dr Harris,  skilled in the technique of measuring the effects of tariff. Other men, such as members of the Vernon Committee, with the assistance of the Tariff Board, made certain measurements which rather startled the Australian public. They revealed the high cost of tariff compared with that of subsidies to primary industries. Since that time, particularly after a former Prime Minister rubbished the Vernon Committee report, the Government and other people continued this trend of probing more and more into what lies behind the principle of protectionism. The Tariff Board itself has given this impetus. 
However, it was not until the last 6 or 7 years, I suppose, that the principles of the tariff making machinery were subject to more and more questioning and scrutiny. One of the most important reasons for this is, as the honourable member for Wakefield said, that the primary industry sector, in relative terms, is stagnating. The rate of growth of the non primary industry sector in the last 5 years has been 40% - 8% per annum. In real terms the rate of growth in primary industry has been static. As costs go up and world prices go down it is only to be expected that important sectors of the economy are starting to look for scapegoats and to question what is happening. Today, with greater freedom and greater abandon, they are picking on the high protection high cost industries. This is a good thing in the sense that there will be more scrutiny of the tariff. The manufacturing industries are starting to question the economics of the tariff and this was unheard of before. Previously their objective was that the more they could get from the tariff the better it was for them. But many secondary industries are becoming surplus industries in the sense that they have to look for export markets. They now realise that they have to pay a high cost for in-puts when compared with the import parity price of some of these in-puts 
It is obvious now that there is all round questioning of the tariff. This is good because in the long run we have to achieve proper allocation and utilisation of resources of land labour, capital and management. High tariffs in themselves, unless the industries are inefficient, certainly create employment. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  made it very clear that one of the advantages of a high tariff or of tariff protected industries is employment. But looking at the cold facts of economics, it does not necessarily follow that this is the best method of creating employment. An example is the hot water bag industry in respect of which we held a debate here a couple of years ago. It is not necessarily the best policy to provide high tariff protection to that industry when the resources could be used to create a greater degree of employment somewhere else. 
It is generally accepted that greater opportunities for a wider range of export commodities exist today. The acceptance of this point is fundamental to any discussion on tariff policy. Whereas previously the Australian economy was greatly dependent on exports of wheat and wool, and today is dependent on mining and meat in addition to wheat, wool and sugar, manufacturing is becoming increasingly important. Under previous conditions of a relatively inelastic supply of export goods in relation to overseas demand for our primary products, the effect of a policy of high tariffs on manufactured goods was not particularly significant because Australia had few production alternatives and exports of manufactured goods were either zero or extremely low. 
Two points must be made clear. Firstly, under current and future conditions, as opposed to the past, the factors of production are being used in a significantly greater number of industries. They are diversified over a wider field of secondary industries. The tariff as such is affecting more people and more industries. Secondly, we must consider protectionism and its limitations, because this is important. There can be little real argument about a policy of protectionism being advantageous to a developing country like Australia where economic growth, full employment and a steady increase in population is accepted policy. I believe in protectionism. I am not certain what the honourable member for Wakefield or the honourable member for Corangamite believe in, but I believe in protectionism, provided that the resources are used efficiently. But it needs to be firmly grasped that there is a limit to the degree of protectionism. Any claim that more protection or higher protection - whichever phrase one chooses to use - will result in greater prosperity because there will be increased employment is not necessarily true. High rates of protection for some manufacturing industries can result in a lower level of employment in terms of the total economy. 
As the honourable member for Grayndler has said, the Australian Labor Party has always endorsed a policy of protectionism because it is fundamental to growth and fundamental to full employment. It has always endorsed a policy of orderly marketing of primary products and protectionism for efficient primary industries, even if it involves the payment of a subsidy. It seems to me that the theory advanced by the honourable member for Wakefield was that all subsidies are bad. Perhaps I am a little unfair in saying that, but all subsidies are not bad. If an industry is producing efficiently and is producing a product which can be sold, often a subsidy will act as a stimulus for expansion and more efficient production. I mention the superphosphate subsidy as an example. 
Even a subsidy as a compensation can be a stimulus. What docs the honourable member say about wool? The honourable member suggests that there should be a Tariff Board equivalent for the wool industry. Suppose there is a 20% compensation factor. How would he apply that disability allowance to wool, for example? The wool grower is being penalised by not being able to import products. He has to buy his chemicals, fertiliser and spare parts on a highly protected domestic market. How can we apply a disability allowance if we do not do so by paying a subsidy? Of course it has to be a subsidy. 
One point about protectionism should be qualified. The indiscriminate backing by the Government of every decision of the Tariff Board is completely wrong. We on this side of the House are opposing the Government's decision this time. I am making it quite clear that I am opposing it because I am not convinced of the soundness of economic analysis. It does not satisfy me. The chemical industry as an example, is a classic example of a high cost industry and a high protection industry. There is a multiplicity of diversification in this industry. It is generally recognised that in an industry such as the chemical industry, unless it has adequate throughput shown by a downward sloping average cost curve, it is most difficult to reduce its average costs. 
The more that technology or science advances, particularly in agriculture, the more diversification there seems to be in the manufacture of chemicals. Perhaps I can make an analogy with the railway system. The Government usually makes an ad hoc decision. It may be asked to make some decision on subsidising a section of a railway line, and it makes a decision on that portion. That section may be an economically weak section but yet is vital to the efficiency of the whole railway line. A section of the chemical industry may be weak in the sense that it has to have a high degree of protection in order not to break the chain of processing. The more weak links we get through diversification, fragmentation or whatever one likes to call it, the greater becomes the problem of tariff making in industries like the chemical industry. 
One of the statements in support ot tariffs is that Australia needs a high protection policy because of the imbalance of the work force. This is a fallacy. It has been argued that most people work in the rural sector and therefore we need a high degree of protection to attract them into the manufacturing sector. In terms of the work force, we are among the most highly industrialised countries in the world. Something like 27% of our total labour force is employed in manufacturing industries. This is approximately the same as in the United States of America. So the argument that most of our work force, relatively speaking, is in the rural sector is not right. 
The tertiary industries have not been touched upon tonight. They are the largest employers of labour in Australia. Sixty per cent of the nation's wage bill is paid to workers in tertiary industry. Because of the major deficiencies in housing, education, transport and health there is no doubt that this percentage will increase at the expense of the rural sector and possibly at the expense of the manufacturing sector. Therefore it follows that the standard of living of the nation is directly correlated to the prosperity in tertiary industry. If the building trade has a slump, we can expect a slump to spread quickly through the whole economy. It is an indicator which must be looked at because tertiary industry employs such a high level of labour. 
There is sometimes a tendency, when tariff policy is dominated by Government thinking, to fix abnormally high tariffs for particular commodities in order to be able to bargain with overseas countries such as Japan and the United Kingdom. These are very good tactics to bargain with overseas countries such as Japan and the United Kingdom. In recent years Australian bound tariffs have contained both the substantive rates and the primage duties. Primage duties have always been looked upon as a temporary revenue raising device rather than as an element to be included in tariff policy as such. By this type of device often one is able to bargain with overseas countries on a quid pro quo arrangement. There is nothing wrong with that, but often it is a little unfair. 
I think 1 have covered most of the points that I wanted to make about tariffs. I will sum up by saying that in view of the marked changes in the structure of primary, secondary and tertiary industries, which has occurred in recent years, Parliament must take a positive role in tariff making. First and foremost, we must remember the tremendous employment created by effective tariffs. Each policy decision should be set out so that benefits and costs of the policy are fully appreciated. This means that instead of a blanket acceptance of all levels of tariffs for industries we become more moderate in our approach, more modest and selective. In effect, this means giving greater support to potentially viable low cost industries and perhaps less support for uneconomic high cost industries. 
Thursday, 11 June 1970 (continuation) 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has raised a point with respect to peanut oil. 1 should have thought that the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  would have had something to say very strongly on this. 1 cannot accept the logic of the statement by the honourable member for Wakefield that, just because there has been high protection before and because there are now going to be phased in over a number of years duty free imports of peanut oil, it therefore is good. What about the established peanut growers in north Queensland, in the tableland and Mareeba area? They may not have been protesting to the honourable member for Wakefield but they have been protesting to me. They are established growers. What is going to happen to them? That is not taken into account. 1 just cannot follow the logic of the honourable member's argument, because on the one hand he is saying that local production must be supported and on the other he seems to be saying thai it is a very good thing to get free imports of peanut oil without any tariff protection at all. This will do harm to the industry in Queensland. As I see it, his argument is illogical. Me is arguing again for free trade. 
Yes, it is a free trade argument. Oil seeds are grown in Australia and therefore the honourable member is saying that there will be a greater production of margarine. He is saying that we should produce less buller and eat more margarine. 
Surely that is the end result. I do not agree with the Government's decision to allow free entry of peanut oil. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation. I refer to the irresponsible statement he made at Maryborough when he opened the Queensland Returned Services League conference in which he referred to large numbers of Australians wanting to see Australia under Communism and Australia to be defeated by the Communists in Vietnam. Did the Minister say privately that the Australian Labor Party also had this view about wanting a Communist victory in Vietnam? 
Government supporters  -  Well, don't you? 
The honourable members opposite are more irresponsible than is the Minister. As this kind of irresponsibility is to be deplored by every decent Australian and as this is a most serious allegation, will he tell the House now who are these people who want to see Australia defeated by the Communists and who want to see Australia under Communist rule? In other words will he put up or shut up? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does a qualified technician in the PostmasterGeneral's Department receive a commencing salary of $3,989. 
Does a qualified engineer in the same Department, as recognised by the Public Service Board, receive a commencing salary of $3,867. 
If the position is as stated, why is  a  technician paid a higher commencing salary than an engineer. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether, in terms of financial responsibility, qualified engineers in the PostmasterGeneral's Department are the lowest paid professional engineers within the State and Commonwealth public services and local government authorities. 
The latest available figures relating to the Australian economy show the very serious position of the rural sector of Australia, lt does not matter how much one might try to disguise it, the condition can be described only as serious. This fact was confirmed only last night in the papers released by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  As those papers will be discussed in detail at a later stage I shall 'refer only to the relevant figures to prove the point that the farming sector of Australia, as distinct from the non-farming sector, is in a serious plight. Taking the last 4 years as an example, the gross national product of the farming sector at factor cost has decreased by $200m. The contrast in the non-farming sector is remarkable. That sector has shown an increase in the gross national product in the same period of 4 years of close to $7,000m. Those figures alone show clearly the very serious position in which primary industry finds. itself and the widening gap between the rural sector and secondary industry. 
Words cannot describe the incompetence which has been displayed by the Government in its overall approach to rural Australia. At no time since the depression 40 years ago has rural Australia been in such an economic mess. Positive and courageous leadership in primary industry seems to have disappeared. Despite the criticism of primary producers throughout Australia the Government has failed in a dismal and even in a shocking manner to face the problems which exist and to promote and implement positive policies. The blame for the mess in which primary industry finds itself today must be borne by the Federal Government. The Opposition cannot be blamed because this Government has been in office for over 20 years. One of the main reasons why primary industry is in such a mess is that the Government has refused consistently to face the facts relating to international trade and the policies of overseas countries with regard to agricultural marketing, as well as the facts relating to domestic policies in Australia and those factors which are causing an insidious increase in costs and the cost price spiral. 
The Government has allowed rural Australia to drift for year after year until now a crisis with frightening ramifications has emerged. We have a crisis in wool, a crisis in wheat, a crisis in dairying and, of course, a crisis in drought. Our export apple and pear industry is verging on crisis. Other aspects of primary industry are also involved. We have a crisis in the meat industry with regard to meat workers and meat inspectors which must be faced. This could grow into a very serious problem in the immediate future. The Government has a lot to say about strikes. There is one sector of the work force which would have every justification in striking. I refer to meat inspectors. Lel us hope that the Government will act positively to avert industrial problems in this field. 
My investigations have shown that the crisis that already exists in this industry could worsen. On Monday morning there were reports in the Press of another crisis. The statement by the Leader of the Australian Country Party who is Minister for Trade and Industry was perhaps the gloomiest I had read for many a day. He reminded us that one-third of our exports of sugar go to Great Britain. The Minister said that the sugar industry could face serious problems. He also mentioned meat and canned fruits. Is this Government to sit back and wait until Britain joins the European Economic Community before it acts to protect our rural industries? lt is all right to say that Britain may not join the EEC but the Australian Government and the industries which would be involved if Britain did enter the EEC cannot afford to sit back and wait. We should act now. After all, we have known for a long time that a decision on Britain's entry to the 
EEC was pending. One of the first things that the Australian Government must have is a firm decision as 10 where Britain stands in regard to the Australian agricultural trade. The sooner this Government ascertains Britain's policy the better for all concerned. 
The Government's whole approach to primary industry is analogous to its approach to drought. In 21 years of power the Government has not formulated a constructive national drought policy. The policy of the Government is to wait until a drought occurs and then try to solve the problem by handouts to the States. 1 cannot stress too strongly the importance of the rural sector to the Australian economy. Over a long period of years primary industry has been the financial and economic backbone of this nation and it will continue to be the backbone in the future. To put it bluntly, the economic health of this nation is dependent on prima rj' industry and the mineral industry. Should Australia's export income sector fail the result would be wholesale unemployment in almost every major secondary industry in Australia, most of which are located in the cities. 
 You are a supporter of the Government. The wool fiasco is a glaring example of this Government's attitude towards primary industry. Five years ago the wool industry experts recommended a reserve price scheme. The honourable member for Curtin has interjected and very shortly in this session I will test the morale and courage of the Country Party on the subject of wool. When the reserve price scheme was put forward it resulted in organised opposition by the vested interests and ruthless campaigns against the wool growers. Nothing was done by the Government after it was rejected. The Government has, over a number of years, consistently blamed the wool industry for not grasping the nettle and today we are in exactly the same position. After 5 years of study by the Government, and yet another expert report the Government still refuses to act on wool. We see the efforts of the Liberal Party to sabotage the wool marketing scheme just as it sabotaged the reserve price scheme. What will the Country Party do about this? Will it sit back and take it as it has done every other year when there has been a crisis in rural industry? 
The Country Party appears to be frightened by the numerically powerful Liberal Party which without doubt represents the vested interests, the middle man, the overseas cartels and the very big growers who are in a position to dictate their own terms. What does the Government propose to do about wool? Surely it will not again submit the question of a single marketing authority to a referendum. As I have said before, if the Country Party is not prepared to act the Opposition will have no hesitation in putting the Country Party on the spot at a later stage and testing it before the people of Australia. How far is the Country Party prepared to act in defiance of the Liberals, who are doing everything possible to sabotage the wool industry in the marketing field? 
Reconstruction of the wool industry is urgently required. Handouts simply delay the inevitable. What I mean by reconstruction is a complete re-organisation of the marketing and handling of wool and a forceful approach to the policies of overseas shipping companies with respect to freight rates. Let us not procrastinate any longer. The Government has had many years in which to act. It has had the advice of the best experts available, lt has the backing of the rank and file of the industry. Still we have no positive statement as to the Government's intentions. We are all aware that there is a crisis in the wool industry. There is an urgent need to face up to the future prospects of wool. Let us have the truth. If it is considered that we must scale down our level of production of certain courser classes of wool, the Government should say so. If we have to increase our production of finer wools let the Government say so and pursue policies which will achieve this objective. Whatever happens, we must have action; we must have policies. 
As I see the position, the greatest threat to wool and to every export primary industry are the vicious and insidious domestic policies which promote the cost price spiral and encourage the forces of inflation in this country. The wages and materials cost price problem is eroding the economic heart of our export industries. If costs continue to increase at their present rate the export minerals industry will be in trouble. The rumblings are already in evidence. Action to deal with the cost price squeeze in export industries must be regarded as one of our most important priorities. The Government has done nothing in the present Budget to control costs. Every manufacturer in Australia, heavily protected by tariffs, is free to raise his prices when workers obtain increased wages through arbitration. 
In no primary industry has the Government's failure to exhibit leadership been more apparent than in the butter industry. By his own admission the Minister for Trade and Industry has for 10 years warned the industry that it would have to do something to reduce butter production. But Australia is increasing its production of butter. The Government says that it does not have control over production. It controls the purse strings. It controls the level of subsidy, and under equalisation it has widesweeping powers. The Government must take action to curtail butter production. The wheat industry has had the same problem of over-production. For 3 years prior to the present crisis facing the wheat industry the rumblings were present. But the Government waited until the crisis occurred. 
Despite the current drought conditions Australia will have at the end of this year a carryover of approximately 280 million bushels of wheat and at the end of next season the carryover, notwithstanding the drought, will- be approximately 170 million bushels. What is the Government doing with these surpluses? The Country Party is desperately kicking the mythical Communist can at every opportunity. Yet that same Party adopts, the hypocritical attitude of selling wheat to Communist China at a price .lower than is charged to owners of starving stock in Australia. I challenge the Government to disprove my statement. The Labor Party's policy is to marry surplus grains production and our livestock. We all know that certain areas in Australia are susceptible to drought, yet we see hundreds of millions of bushels of unsaleable wheat attacked by vermin. At the same time as this is happening we find hundreds of thousands of sheep and cattle dying for the want of feed grains. It would appear as though my time has almost expired. I thought I had more time at my disposal. I conclude by saying that emergency grants are essential for the construction of desperately needed small scale water schemes for people, industry and established farmers whose economic livelihood is being threatened. I shall give 2 excellent examples. Day after day many people in Giru have had to fetch their water in buckets. Mt Morgan, where industry is involved, is another example. Large grandiose schemes are not needed at this point of time. All that is needed is a small scheme which will enable the people of these areas to survive economically. If any honourable member wants to ridicule my suggestion he should go to Giru and he will see what the farmers have to say. The wives of many farmers are going to the water points and carting buckets of clean water. This is an example of the sort of thing that is going on. Not a lot of money would be involved in overcoming this problem. A strategically located pipeline is a first priority. Why does the Government not act? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I will not detain the House for long. However, I am opposed to the motion. I am a country member. Many other honourable members have benevolently said that the motion is being moved for the country members. Let me say that if the Parliament sits on Friday I do not get home until Saturday afternoon. With all due respect to honourable members who come from Perth they can get home on Friday night, even though it is late at night. I take the same view as does the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that a person's responsibility is to the Parliament and to those people who elect him. An average of 30 to 35 people come into my office daily for 5 days a week. When I get home on Saturday or Friday I have enough work for 1 day and sometimes 2 days to try to catch up with because of the weekI have been down here. It is all right to say: 'You can do this by telephone'. But I find that after 3 days and 3 nights in this Parliament one needs a break. 
I agree with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  It is not often that we agree on something; it is very strange that we seem to be agreeing on this proposal. As the Minister said, if we sit for 4 days, before we know where we are we will finish up sitting for 5 days. One has only to witness what has happened in this Parliament when we have sat on a Friday. It is the greatest scramble to get pairs and to get out of the place as fast as possible. I am not going to fall for the argument that we are all going to stay here as a happy family over the weekend and do committee work. I have never heard anything so nonsensical. I guarantee that there will be few members here at the weekend whether the Parliament sits for 3 days a week or 4 days a week. Those who will be here for the weekend in most cases would be staying here anyhow. 
I oppose the motion. I can see no advantage in it except in some cases where there is a problem of travelling, as in the case of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick).  The honourable member has a major problem in travelling to and from his electorate. It takes him a far longer time to get here than it takes me and practically every other honourable member who lives in a country area. But I am not going to accept this benevolent attitude that we all stay back on Saturday and Sunday, that the Library will be open on Saturday and Sunday and that we will all have our committee meetings on Saturday and Sunday. Just watch the flights out of here on Friday afternoon. There will be no-one left in Canberra on Saturday or Sunday. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent consideration of Notice of Motion No. 1, General Business, being continued. 
I think the House will agree that we have listened to excellent advocacy by the hon ourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  No doubt can exist that he has put the case clearly. The first reason why I have moved the suspension of Standing Orders is the obvious vital importance of this question. It concerns the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the people of the Northern Territory getting a voice, which they are denied now, in the Senate. 
The other reason why I have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders is the vote, 55 to 54, which defeated the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The person who is most concerned in this matter is the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  If he had voted in support of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, his action would have meant that he was supporting at least further debate on the matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Dawson that the motion that he has moved is for the suspension of Standing Orders. I do not wish him to develop a debate that will cover the subject matter of the General Business debate which has just concluded. 
No. I am giving my reasons for moving that motion. The first reason was the vital importance of this proposition, which seeks to allow the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory to have a vote or a voice in the Senate. The second reason is that the vote on the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition was 55 to 54. The person who could have changed the outcome of that vote was the honourable member for the Northern Territory, who voted to gag himself and so prevent himself from speaking on this question. My third reason is that, having listened to the excellent advocacy of the representative of the Austraiian Capital Territory, I wish to speak on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory if the honourable member for the Northern Territory will not speak for them. I think that that is sufficient reason for the Government to allow this debate to continue. If the honourable member for the Northern Territory will not speak on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory. I will speak on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory. 
I have listened attentively to this debate. J have listened particularly to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  who gave us reasons why the honourable member for the Northern Territory will not speak. Surely the honourable member for the Northern Territory is not a ventriloquist's dummy. Quite frankly, every other member of this Parliament would be humiliated if he followed the course of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He has refused to rise in his place and say a few words such as those he uttered from his electoral platform about a matter which affects the people of the Northern Territory who elected him to sit as their representative in this Parliament. It is all very well for the Minister for the Interior to say what the honourable member for the Northern Territory thinks. I want to hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory say it. 
I do not know where the honourable member for the Northern Territory is. He should be in the House, as this is a most important debate concerning him. 
Let me say something in all seriousness; because I do not think that this is a laughing matter. Some laughter has been heard in this House while debating this subject. But it is a very serious matter. We are discussing something which would give to these people the right to be represented in the Senate. Frankly, I cannot understand the honourable member for the Northern Territory. To me such a position would be humiliating. I would like to see the Minister for the Interior, as a back bencher, placed in the same position. I guarantee that he would have been up  on  his feet, after the Leader of the Opposition had finished speaking, to answer what had been said. Of course he would. The honourable member for the Northern Territory is coming into the chamber now. 
The House has listened with attention to the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  giving a resume of his approach to the problem while he was overseas and the consequences of Britain joining the European Common Market. When he returned to Australia he made a Press statement which was virtually a precis of what he has said tonight. There can be little doubt that he depicts the European Economic Community as a villian and believes that if Britain joins the Common Market she will also become a villain. I do not think anybody will deny that he paints a picture of despair, certainly of gloom, for those primary products whose future, or much of it, depends on the consequences of Britain joining the Common Market. 
I feel that the Deputy Prime Minister's statement is one which has been designed for political rhetoric, for local consumption, and in fact that virtually was the comment made by one of the British newspapers. One can visualise tonight listeners who have their radio sets turned on listening to the Deputy Prime Minister feeling a large measure of despair, particularly people in Tasmania - the apple and pear producers, the dairy people and the butter producers - but saying: 'Well, the Deputy Prime Minister is going to take action to save us. He is going to take the problem to 
GATT,' One of the principal safeguards in the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade is that it was designed to stop the trade of countries being seriously damaged by the action of other countries and by the formulation of a common market such as the European Common Market. 1 think that the Deputy Prime Minister summed up the position by saying towards the end of his statement: 
I have reached the conclusion that recourse to GATT provides the only prospect of avoiding serious damage to the trade of Australia and many other countries, should the EEC be enlarged to include Britain and other applicant countries. 
This is all very well but the principal purpose of the statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry was to enlighten us as to what has happened overseas and the results of his approaches to important governments. Then he comes up with the conclusion that things look very bad and that all we can do, in his opinion, is to go to GATT. I have no disagreement with that approach, nor I am certain has anybody in this House, but there are some questions that must be asked. For almost a decade we have known or we have been warned of the possibility of Britain and other countries joining this super economic power which, if Britain joins it, will become a super, super economic power. As far as world trade goes it will be a power greater than the United States of America or Russia. In fact, it now has over 25% of the total world trade. 
lt will be 40% if Britain joins. I come now to the deficiency in the Deputy Prime Minister's statement. He named certain commodities in Australia's agricultural industries which will be affected, some seriously. But what Australia wants to know and has been wanting to know for a number of years is what will happen in Australian agriculture if Britain does join the Common Market, as also do Denmark, Ireland and other applicant countries. What is the Government going to do? All of Australia's hopes are pinned on one thing and one thing only according to the Deputy Prime Minister, and that is the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. As he quite rightly pointed out, GATT is the supreme or ruling body in the determination of policy regarding world trade. But does he seriously believe that he will succeed? After all. the Common Market countries have been hurting world trade, including that of Australia, for a number of years already by dumping products on the world market. They have even been damaging the mighty America. I think the figure that was used was a burden of something like 20% . 
What chance has Australia against the Common Market? As 1 said before, and as the Deputy Prime Minister has said, wo must go to GATT and at least try. All  I  can say on behalf of the Opposition is tha' 1 wish him luck, but 1 say also that I dc not think that we have very much chance of succeeding. I believe that the die is cast. The pattern is there and the Deputy Prime Minister is wasting his time talking to the European Common Market. 1 do not think Britain will have very rauch say in regard to the Australian position. Certainly it will in regard to New Zealand butter and Caribbean sugar, but Australia is wasting time in talking to the European Common Market. Perhaps if some pressure can be put on the United States of America and some other countries to show what this super giant is doing to the trade of Australia and other countries we may have a chance but I feel, and I regret the pessimistic view, that Australia has very little chance. 
Then we come to the important issue. What happens if GATT fails? 1 will deal in detail later with some of the industries and some of the areas which could be damaged. We want to try to prevent such damage if possible. I am not certain whether the Deputy Prime Minister really believes he can win. He did not really say that. Hr said that we may win or we may not. 
Yes, if we can put pressure on America. But can we? After all, America has been hurt, and seriously hurt, over the years as well. The reaction of the British Government to the Press statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister was, to say the least, rather coot. It is there for honourable members to read. The spokesmen for the British Government regarded it rather as a prophesy of doom, one might say, and a mild criticism of Britain itself. As far as Australia is concerned it does not matter who we criticise as Jong as we get some positive action. It seems to me that in the field of trade there is no place for gentlemen because when one looks at the policies and the attitudes of the European Common Market one can see the cut throat competition that occurs. 
The Deputy Prime Minister did not say how imports into Australia will be affected. Briefly, on balance, it would seem that we could actually gain in this respect despite the fact that we might have to pay more for British products because I should think that the Australian Government would alter the tariff preferences for Britain. We can also expect a greater interest from the' Common Market countries when the British preferences go. So on balance, as far as imports into Australia are concerned we can expect little change. 
Let us consider on the export side the products which will be affected. I propose to mention butter, but first I shall deal with the products in total. Approximately 8300m is involved in agriculture, minerals and manufactured goods. The value of the vulnerable agricultural products would be about $200m. We must face the fact that we will get no sympathy at all from Britain and no preferential treatment because the image of Australia in Britain is of a country with a booming economy, a country fabulously rich in minerals. It is quite different from the image of the Carribbean or New Zealand which have decided balance of payments problems. Britain could argue: What is $200m - to take the worst figure, although it might be less than that - out of a total export income of $4,000m? Is Britain concerned that almost the whole of Tasmania will be affected if the apple and pear industry collapses? Is Britain concerned that major areas of Australia which rely on dairy production will most certainly be phased out of dairy production? I do not think so. I think that Britain, like the European Common Market, will take the view that Australia can afford her entry and she will look to the Common Market countries for the supply of products that she now obtains from Australia. In my view the greatest threat of the European Economic Community to Australia, and to world trade for that matter, is the crazy agricultural policies which are being followed by the Common Market countries. These policies are devoid of any economic logic. Australia is one of the countries which are vitally dependent on agricultural export earnings and we will be one of the countries which suffer greatly because of this crazy method of agricultural marketing. About 20 million farmers in the Common Market area today are living on a highly protected industry. We could supply member countries in that area with food at half the price they pay. It is a pity in a world of strikes that the housewives of the Common Market countries and Britain cannot rise up and express their opinion of the crazy method of agricultural marketing and consumer buying in the Common Market. 
Let us consider the Australian agricultural exports which would be affected by Britain's entry to the Common Market. The effect on our butter exports would be something like $3 Om, on soft wheats S40m, on sugar $40m, on canned fruits $2Sm, fresh fruits $12m, dried fruits $7m and coarse grains $10m. Those items with miscellaneous exports make up a figure of about $200m for agriculture. Exports of lead and zinc to the value of $50m are involved, but it seems likely that Britain will insist that she still wants Australian minerals because of her investment in mining in Australia. Therefore we can classify minerals as one area of production where perhaps there is little risk. The greatest risk, of course, is to the agricultural industries. Who will supply the deficiency in the butter market if Britain joins the Common Market? There will be a deficiency of 400,000 tons in Britain to be met, but there is an almost permanent surplus of 200,000 tons in the EEC. There will be an incentive immediately for the European Common Market to be self sufficient in this production, and with Denmark and Ireland going into the Common Market - they have applied to do so - the needs for butter will be supplied with some consideration from New Zealand. Of course, over a period it could easily happen that New Zealand will find herself getting the boot also, because as the Common Market expands its butter production the reliance on New Zealand will lessen. The view must be taken that Australia has no chance whatever of breaking into the butter market and the Government must tell the people of Australia what it intends to do about the situation. 
I refer next to wheat. I suggest that we will lose the market for soft wheat to the value of about $43m quicker than we will lose the market for butter. Because of world trading conditions there seems to be little hope of us finding a market for soft wheat in the European Common Market. One industry which will be affected vitally is the Tasmanian apple and pear industry in respect of which the Government must act quickly. I believe that the apple and pear industry in Tasmania is more vulnerable than any other Australian export industry. That is not an exaggeration. It must be remembered that 96% of the average gross returns of apple and pear producers in Tasmania comes from export markets and most of the market is in Britain. If it were not for devaluation compensation the apple and pear industry in Tasmania today would be bankrupt. If I may give an example, the latest information shows that in the south of Tasmania 37% of apple and pear producers are earning a net farm income of less than $2,000, and in the north of tasmania 68% of producers are earning a net farm income of less than $2,000. These figures take into account devaluation compensation, so there is no need to emphasise how vulnerable the apple and pear industy will be if Britain joins the European Common Market. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister mentioned sugar. I am one who believes that the sugar industry will face the situation and beat it. for a number of reasons. The Government should from time to time look very closely at the sugar industry as a model to apply to other Australian export industries, lt is without doubt the best organised primary industry in Australia. Now that the International Sugar Agreement has been negotiated the Australian sugar industry has been cushioned to take the shocks which can occur. The industry could not lake the shock of losing immediately a market for more than 330,000 tons of sugar, but with consumption rising and production controlled 1 feel that with good and sound negotiation the sugar industry will weather' this problem. Let us not live in false hope. There is no chance of Australian sugar getting preferential treatment in the European Common Market. The Caribbean would be given preferential treatment because there the balance of payments position is critically dependent on sugar. The same argument is put forward for New Zealand with regard to butter. But the Australian sugar industry is controlled. I do not care whether it is referred to as a Socialist control or what it is called, but it is a model of which Australian agriculture will have to take more heed. Each farm has a peak and each mill area has a peak. There is a domestic agreement, a Sugar Industry Act, the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement - the one we are concerned with - and the influence of the International Sugar Agreement. Every ton of sugar ;s controlled, with a degree of flexibility, and if a grower produces above his quota as in a good season, he does so at his own risk. This is an organisation at which the wheat industry will have to look very closely because it seems that this could be a model for reconstruction which we in Australia will have to follow more closely. 
I do not believe that we will get any sympathy from the rest of the world because of our problems. I hope that the  Deputy  Prime Minister was right when he said that we could stir America into some action against the Common Market, which is a super giant even bigger than America in terms of world trade. The Government should be working on the premise that we will fail to persuade Britain to remain outside the Common Market and should immediately tell the farmers of Australia, particularly those engaged in the production of butter and apples and pears, what it intends to do to cushion the situation. It is no good waiting until the crisis comes. 
If the right honourable member had been listening he would have heard what I said. As  an  example, the Tasmanian apple and  peaT  industry needs a price stabilisation scheme and a single marketing authority immediately. The industry has asked the Government for this, but why has there been no action? If a portion of this industry and the butter industry has to be phased out, for goodness sake tell the people of Tasmania and the butter producers of Australia that this is to hap* pen. It is high time that the Commonwealth took the big stick to the States in respect, of butter, production. As the Deputy Prime Minister said, we are facing a crisis with butter and yet this nation is continuing to increase its butter production. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. I refer to what has been called the stirring speech of the Prime Minister yesterday at the conference of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations in which the Prime Minister appealed to developed nations to help feed the millions of hungry people still existing throughout the world - an admirable concept and one which, I am sure, is applauded. Will the Prime Minister put his words into practice by ensuring that his Government will not tolerate the deliberate and wasteful destruction of a proportion of this year's sugar crop following a fortuitous season because, if carried out, this destruction would be  an  act of folly which would earn Australia nothing but ridicule and contempt throughout the nations of the world. Finally, will the Prime Minister confer on this subject wilh the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry, to see at least that the storage opportunities available to Australia under the International Sugar Agreement in the event of fortuitous and periodic circumstances are availed of? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  stated quite clearly that 1 had opposed every move by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Mc Ewen)  with respect to the sugar industry when it was in trouble. For the record, that is not true. 
To satisfy the postmaster-General 1 state that what I did oppose on every occasion was the Government's penalising of the sugar industry by the imposition of high interest bearing loans. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that he stated that he rejects the formation of a strong single wool marketing statutory authority which is backed, as a matter of urgency, by the wool growers of Australia, the Australian Wool Board and the top agricultural brains of this country headed by  Sir John  Crawford? On what grounds does the Prime Minister believe that his preference for a weak, toothless voluntary marketing system would be superior to a strong single marketing authority? Does he not agree that it is a serious breach of long established Cabinet behaviour for him as a Cabinet Minister and Prime Minister to state a judgment on a matter of great national importance before Cabinet has reached a majority decision? 
Before commenting at some length on the matters in the Budget relating to primary industry I want to put the record straight on one issue. The right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  when he made his speech, sneered at the Australian Labor Party for excluding me from its list of speakers on primary industry. I can assure him that at no stage was I squeezed out or excluded. If the honourable member likes to consult the official list of speakers in the Caucus he will find that I was on that list at all times. But more importantly, because of the arrogance of this Government of which the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  speaks, in deliberately introducing Bills this morning that it could have introduced tonight, it has excluded the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who were to have closed the debate on this side of the House. That is the type of arrogance that this Government displays. 
The Opposition Whip has had my name on the list for 3 days. 1 am not concerned with the inefficiency of your Whip. 
by leaveThe Opposition always adopts a tolerant and responsible attitude in regard to the payment of emergency bounties when an industry is in trouble and that industry has been referred to the Tariff Board for long term action. The principal reason put forward by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  for urgent action by payment of a special bounty is, as I see it, to save the tractor industry because of the growing competition from imported tractors. Available evidence does show that there has been a substantial downturn of tractor sales. This is to be expected when one considers the parlous condition of primary industry in Australia in terms of aggregates. The latest Budget figures show that in the last 4 years the farm sector in terms of its contribution to the gross national product has been stagnant whereas in the secondary or non-farm sector there has been a dramatic increase of S7.000m. So it is only to be expected that because of these conditions and because the net income of nearly every farmer in Australia has been shrinking there has to be some cutdown in the purchase of equipment. 
Tractors are one of those commodities which are frequently hit when people put off a purchase until a better day. 
What concerns the Opposition - and we will be able to discuss it further when the legislation is introduced - is where this is going to end. I suppose, the real reason for the problems of the tractor industry, like a lot of  other  industries, is that increasing costs in the economy are such that manufacturers are being priced out of competition in the sale of their products on world markets or on the Australian market with imports of equipment manufactured in cheaply producing countries, particularly those that have cheap labour or plants for mass production with a big throughput. The Opposition has always acknowledged the need to protect Australian industry whether secondary or primary. But the important point is: Where are we going to end this? Our economy today is highly susceptible to a galloping increase in costs which particularly affect the export primary industries which in the main purchase tractors. That is the burning question. 
The other burning question is whether the bounty will be used in a way that will reduce the price of Australian tractors so that they can effectively compete with imported tractors or whether it will only be used to cushion increased costs in the future. After all, the emergency bounty being asked for is 100 per cent of the present subsidy. That means a doubling of the present subsidy. 1 am not suggesting that the tractor industry in inefficient in any sense of the word or that it does not deserve this emergency treatment. What I am suggesting - we can debate this later when the Bill comes before the House - is that if costs and prices are to run riot in Australia, as they are doing today, the solution is not simply to increase the tariff or to increase the bounty. I do not see how this will in the long term provide a solution to the problem because if the economy continues to be as it is - I do not care what term you use; 'overheated' or whatever it might be - it is the export industry all the time which will suffer the real burden. If there is a bounty to cushion the costs in the tractor industry, in the same way we have to look at the effect of tariffs on export industry. If these continue to rise it seems that the only solution in the end will be devaluation. 
I will direct my remarks to the fertiliser bounty Bills. Most of the Bills are interrelated, with the exception of the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Bill. The principal objective of the bounties on the fertiliser component is basically to reduce the price of fertiliser in Australia so that the farmers will have lower costs. The second objective is to encourage the production and the consumption of fertiliser, whether it be phosphatic, nitrogenous or potassium fertiliser. With respect to the bounty as it refers to urea, a startling and dramatic expansion in the capacity to make nitrogenous fertiliser in Australia has taken place particularly since the establishment of Austral Pacific Fertilisers Ltd. This expansion has been so extraordinary that the present capacity to make nitrogenous fertiliser is probably about 500,000 tons per annum. On the other hand, consumption is running at less than 200,000 tons. I assume that the Tariff Board will have a good look at this substantial expansion to see whether or not this has been a sound investment. One can ask whether, in  a  highly competitive field such as the production of nitrogenous fertiliser, we needed more companies or whether it might have been more economical to allow one company, for example, to expand to such a degree that it could supply the market while at the same time a check could be kept on the prices of the fertiliser produced by that company by relating them to the import parity price of nitrogenous fertilisers. 
The Opposition's principal query is whether the farmer is getting the benefit of these bounties. It could be argued that the very large investment of the 2 principal companies concerned with the production of nitrogenous fertiliser which have the capacity to produce fertiliser greatly in excess of requirements, was an unsound investment. The Tariff Board should look very closely at the fixed costs alone that are associated with this investment. Although in time there might be a downward sloping average cost curve as expansion increases and the fixed costs are spread over a great volume, in the short term the cost of production must be significantly higher than it will be when Austral Pacific starts producing at its full capacity. 
The other point I am concerned about is the degree of protectionism being given to manufacturers in this field. The Opposition accepts and endorses the philosophy of protectionism, provided that protection is based on sound economic lines. I do not wish to use the word 'efficient'. Thai is something which is almost impossible 'o define in a protectionist society. As long us the resources are being used effectively, to the degree that a commodity is not being produced wastefully, one can argue that the manufacturers are entitled to some degree of protection. But this does not mean that even if they are using their resources effectively they are entitled to very high levels of protection. Let us take urea by way of example. How many people have bothered to examine the protection that is being given to the manufacturers of urea? The normal tariff is approximately 74 per cent, which amounts to about $3.80 a ton. On top of that is the nitrogenous subsidy which, as far as the component of urea is concerned, amounts to about $36.80 a ton. With the bounty, which is about $16 a ton, one gets a total of about $57 a ton which is, directly or indirectly, coming out of the taxpayers' pockets to support this industry. The Government says: 'This is going back to the grower.' It is not. Ft is going to the manufacturer to compensate him for a high cost structure. Let us look at it in real terms and compare the protection of $57 a ton with the import price of urea from places like Alaska and countries which are now mass producing nitrogenous fertiliser. We can buy urea at non-dump prices for between $55 and $60 a ton which means that urea is being protected in Australia by the equivalent of a tariff of something like 100 per cent. 
We have reached the stage, therefore, where we have to start questioning these types of proposals. If the bounties and subsidies are going back to the producers, as the Government claims in most cases they are, the Opposition supports the principle that the farmer should be compensated because of the cost structure. But if these bounties or subsidies are in the main going to the manufacturers of fertiliser to compensate them for unsound investment decisions then the Opposition most certainly does not agree with the principle of a bounty paid to the manufacturer. I will watch this with great interest when the report of the Tariff Board is published. What worries me a lot about this bounty on fertiliser is that it could wreck those companies which are importing nitrogen. The watchdog on the Australian manufacturer of fertiliser is the agent who imports fertilisers. He keeps the manufacturer honest. If that importing organisation ls wrecked and is told that from now on it cannot import anything; or if, because of a temporary phase, the price structure is such that it does not pay the company to import having regard to the bounty being paid to manufacturers; and if after a time costs go up and up and there is not an opportunity to assist the organisation importing nitrogen, then 1 think this will be a retrograde step. We have to keep these fertiliser monopolies honest or they will take all of the bounty and all of the subsidy in the guise of compensation high costs. 
At the present time - and this is only roughly - one could argue that of the $60m spent on bounties and subsidies for fertilisers only about $20m is going into the pockets of the farmers. The other $40m is going into the pockets of the manufacturers, in the main. If it is correct that the urea manufacturers have asked for an increase in the bounty of $16 a ton to $32 a ton they will find their case very difficult to justify unless they can prove that their investment decisions have been wise. If anybody told me it was a wise decision for companies to expand production to a capacity of 500,000 tons when consumption is around 200,000 tons, it would be very difficult for me to believe k. They are investing a lot of money and the purpose of the investment will not be fulfilled in terms of compensation for many years to come. I believe that under the present method of distribution of bounties and subsidies farmers throughout the nation are being hoodwinked, because they are being told they are getting the full benefit of all the bounties and subsidies, particularly on fertilisers. 
The subsidy system, which in general is designed to help the small, traditional family farmer, has been a failure because the biggest share of the federal subsidy payments is going to the powerful manufacturing interests on the one hand and to a very small number of large and affluent primary producers on the other. No-one denies the desirability of attempting to have a viable manufacturing industry concentrating on, say, nitrogenous fertilisers providing those resources are being used effectively. What I am concerned about and what disturbs the Opposition is the distribution of these bounties and subsidies. Who is getting the main benefit from the bounties and subsidies? Take the absurdity of the subsidy question overall. I would like somebody to argue with me on this because when one looks at the distribution of subsidies in Australia - I am talking in general terms - one finds that some 50 per cent of the total farmers in Australia are receiving only about 5 per cent of the total subsidies. The top 10 per cent of the farmers, the large affluent farmers, are getting about 60 per cent of the total subsidy payments by the Commonwealth. This is not the purpose of the bounty and subsidy system in Australia - to make the rich dairy farmers in Victoria, richer for example. Or is it? 
It is certainly not, if one accepts the explanation of subsidies given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen).  They are not helping those who need help, which is the basis used in most countries and should be used in this country whether the farmers need it to maintain economic production or to phase themselves out of production. All that is happening is that they are getting a pittance to keep some of the dairy farmers in the problem areas in production. I raise this because if honourable members have gone into the question of subsidies they will agree with me that there is something very seriously wrong with the distribution of subsidies in Australia. We can argue that under the Constitution we cannot pay differential subsidies. For example, we cannot give the producers in northern New South Wales a greater subsidy per lb than the producers in Victoria. But on the other hand we are doing it in Australia under the zone allowance system. We are paying a differential zone allowance. I am told that that is breaking the law of the land, which of course the Government would never do. I am told on the best advice that it is breaking the law of the land. 
It is not a guesstimate. It is true. 
If the honourable member asks the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  he will be told in no uncertain terms that it is against the spirit of the Constitution; I think those are the words he uses. Secondly, there is a differential payment in relation to the $30m subsidy to woolgrowers. This can be done by section 96 grants payable to the States. Politically, of course, it is a different matter. 
If we said to the dairy farmers in Victoria: We are not going to give you a certain amount per lb butterfat but we will give you less and we will give more to producers in northern New South Wales, Western Australia or Queensland', there might be a political reaction. I raise those points because in relation to bounties and subsidies on nitrogenous fertilisers, sulphuric acid and other commodities - the same principle applies- - the farmer is not getting the full benefit of the bounties or subsidies, particularly the farmer who is in most need and who has the potential to increase his productivity. There is an unfair allocation of subsidies. 
by leaveI want to make the point that I have had a lot of consultations with the Department of Trade and Industry and a lot of correspondence with the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  in relation to this legislation. I believe that it is too rigid. When the matter is next reviewed I hope that steps will be taken to iron out the serious anomalies. 1 believe that we should not have to wait another 4 years before it is looked at. If there are serious anomalies, those anomalies should be ironed out. The most serious anomaly, in my view, is the refusal of the Government to make research and development grants to Australian industries which are producing a commodity for export and earning export income. Because they do not have a qualified research man at the head of their research department they are denied such grants. 
I am sure the Minister for Trade and Industry would admit that in areas such as the sugar industry and the wheat industry a man who is brought up on instruments, who makes machinery, knows far more than a university graduate in engineering or science, so far as the actual carrying out of that work is concerned. This is an important point. There is a firm in my own electorate - Hodges Machinery Pty Ltd - which is a world-wide authority on the making of agricultural implements for the sugar cane industry. But because that firm does not have a top professional man directing research it is denied a research grant. Yet this firm is exporting machinery in competition with the world's best manufacturers of that type of machinery. This point is accepted certainly by most people in the Department of Trade and Industry, and I hope that the Government also will accept that this is a serious anomaly. The other point is that when the Government is making its review, when it is drawing up legislation, I hope it will be not so rigid so that anomalies like this may be overcome immediately either by regulation or by an amendment introduced in the Parliament. 
The Opposition supports the principle behind this statement. In particular, it would like to support and applaud the recommendation of the Public Works Committee with respect to speeding up the target date of completion. There can be no doubt that this is a project which has been needed for a considerable time and one which is essential not only to provide an adequate supply of water to this town in the Northern Territory but also because of the expansion which will take place. The Opposition supports the motion. 
As is customary in debates on the Estimates it is difficult to speak in depth on more than one or two subjects. I want to deal tonight with the sugar industry. Of all the primary industries in Australia the 2 industries which are in the least trouble are the beef and sugar industries. My remarks tonight are mainly concerned with the sugar industry. From time to time in this Parliament and more frequently outside it people take delight in sniping at the sugar industry. They say that it is inefficient and that it is a misallocation of resources. But in most cases one finds on an examination of the statements made that those people know very little about the structure of the sugar industry in Australia. If one examines in depth the sugar industry in Australia one finds 2 things which are unassailable. In the first instance it is the best organised of all primary industries in Australia. It has controlled production in relation to aggregate demand. That is something which most industries should strive to achieve. Secondly, it is one of the most efficient industries in terms of world stan-. dards. 
This might surprise some of the critics who constantly use as their yardstick the import parity price or the free world price of sugar in comparison with the domestic price. Quite often there is a wide difference between these two prices but at the present time there is not much difference. Three years ago there was a wide gap but this is not in any sense an indicator of efficiency. There is no such thing as free trade in sugar. In fact the amount of sugar which is on the residual market is very small in comparison to total production or total trade. In effect the free market of sugar can be analogous to the residual or the dumped portion of sugar for all countries participating in the world trade in sugar. Every country has some type of agreement whether it be bilateral or multi-lateral. Australia has the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement with imperial preferences involving over 400,000 tons of sugar. It also has the United States Act which involves about 180,000 tons of sugar. It has the International Sugar Agreement which of course is the residual market or the free market for sugar. 
I want to make it very clear to those who criticise the sugar industry that on any standard, domestic or international, the sugar industry is highly efficient. In terms of sugar production per acre Australia has the highest yield in the world. In terms of productivity per man hour Australia leads the world. In terms of mechanisation Australia leads the world. In cane technology Australia leads the world. It is a great credit to the white man in the north that he has been able to apply knowledge and in recent years to substitute cap-  italforlabourwhencostshavebeen  increasing and has proved to the world that Australia can produce sugar at a highly efficient standard. I say this because at the present time we have in Australia an industry which is efficient to the degree that it is now experiencing problems. Technology is such that in some areas, helped by good seasons, we are getting overproduction despite the fact that production is controlled. This is a problem. 
To illustrate my point I want to refer specifically to this season's sugar crop. At the present time there are still uncertainties within the sugar industry as to the level of acquisition. There is uncertainty in relation to shortfalls between areas; in relation to production estimates because of dry conditions in some of the surplus producing areas; and in relation to shipping and forward pricing. The best available estimate is that this year Australia will have a sugar production of approximately 2.6 million tons. The best estimates as to our marketing arrangements indicate that we will have a market for only 2.4 million tons of sugar. This means we will have a deficit in marketing or a surplus in production of about 200,000 tons of sugar which is equivalent to over 1 million tons of sugar cane when one takes a c.c.s. of about 1 5. 
It is very important to know what is going to happen to this excess sugar. Since the International Sugar Agreement came into operation in 1968 Australia has been able to get rid of all the sugar it produces. But by complying with the tight regulations relating to our quota we do not have a market for what we will produce this year. The big problem is: What is going to happen to the surplus? The latest figures on acquisition show that the Queensland Sugar Board will take about 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent above peak, after taking into account shortfalls. This is above peaks. This means that there will still be about 1 million tons of cane unaccounted for. There are a number of problems in this. The areas north of Townsville rarely have a surplus production of sugar. The Burdekin and Mackay districts experience periodic surplus production. Areas below Mackay rarely experience surplus production because of the severe drought conditions but when there is a surplus it can remain as stand-over cane. There are 2 ways of storing sugar. Sugar can be stored in the shed or in the paddock. In the Burdekin and Mackay districts which have the greatest problem of excess production today, sugar cane cannot be stored in the paddocks because it cannot be stood over. This means that the solution might have to be deliberately to destroy more than 1 million tons of sugar cane - to destroy more than 1 million tons of potential food. 
As the economic viability of the sugar industry in Australia is in the hands of the 
Commonwealth policy, both domestically and internationally, I can say with the backing of every member of the Labor Party that a Federal Labor government could not and would not stand by and see large quantities of food deliberately destroyed, particularly when that surplus was produced as a result of technology and fortuitous seasons and not through a deliberate attempt to grow excess sugar. Any costs associated with emergency storage would be borne as federal costs. No government in the eyes of the world can allow large quantitits of food to be destroyed. In the past 2 weeks I have had protracted discussions with what I consider to be some of the best brains on the international marketing side of the sugar industry. Federal authorities have assured me that the Commonwealth has no objection to surplus sugar being stored this year within the provisions of the International Sugar Agreement. Australia has the right to store 470,000 tons of sugar. This is more than 3 million tons of cane. If this right is taken up all sugar cane produced this year can be harvested. We have the right to do it. If it is not harvested, more than 1 million tons of cane will have to be destroyed. 
Although the Federal Government is ducking for cover on this issue the responsibility, in the eyes of the world, for any large scale destruction of food in Australia must be borne by the Government. Overseas countries and the United Nations would treat with contempt any attempt by a national government to pass the buck and say, 'This is not our responsibility, it is the responsibility of the States', particularly when the Commonwealth is directly and indirectly concerned with every agreement negotiated on sugar including our own domestic agreements. This surplus is not being produced deliberately. It is the result of technology and a fortuitous season in the Burdekin and Mackay districts. The final decision on the level of cane acquisition rests legally with the Sugar Board. In practice it will be the Colonial Sugar Refining Company's policy which will determine the final level of acquisition figure. Naturally the CSR will adopt a conservative businesslike approach. We cannot blame it for this, but it does not take into account the problems of individual farmers or specific regions. The principal argument against acquiring the crop is that this action might interfere with peaks next year. Such a crystal ball prediction is an expression of ultra-conservatism and regional selfishness. It exhibits a lack of initiative in tackling the problems of regional production. It also ignores the possibility of a drought next year in areas that were blessed with good seasons this year. 
Although I have said that the sugar industry is the best organised in Australia, and by world standards one of the highest in terms of efficiency, any farm production policy which demands by government backing that additional costs be incurred in destroying a large part of. the crop in good seasons is not efficient. This is more so when additional money has to be spent to plant the same crop in the area on which the previous crop has just been destroyed. The Burdekin and Mackay districts are at a serious disadvantage. As I said before, based on performance criteria, the peaks in these districts are too low and the farmers cannot store sugar in the paddocks because they cannot stand over cane. The most pertinent problem in the Burdekin and Mackay districts is the plight of the small farmer plagued by rising costs because his peak, which was efficient and economic when expansion took place some years ago, is now uneconomic. This is a common problem with rising costs. But the sugar industry is pegged with a peak. It is no good talking about increased productivity to counter costs because the farmer has a fixed peak. If he produces above that peak he may have to plough his cane in. This is one of the penalties of having an efficient controlled industry. 
If the Government believes that excess cane should be destroyed in areas which are unable to stand over cane, serious consideration should be given to flexible production arrangements in those areas where stand over cane is not possible under an adjustable peak policy in association with buffer stocks under the International Sugar Agreement. In other words, adjust production each year. Moreover, priority should be given to the small farmer to harvest excess cane above his peak even if this means a reduced percentage of excess sugar being taken from the large farmer. The big peak today was a small peak yesterday but any farmer will tell you that the fixed cash costs of running a farm today are quite different from the days of the horse. It should also be remembered that as the sugar industry relies on Commonwealth policy for the fixation of the domestic price of sugar it should avoid incurring wasteful costs of cane destruction. It would be a difficult task to convince the Federal Government that because of rising costs an increase in the price of sugar in Australia was needed when we are confronted with farmers being forced to destroy, through no fault of their own, something like 1 million tons of cane. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Mr Speaker,  during question time in the House you asked me to withdraw the following remark: 
He just made a  lie. 
I withdrew that remark and said: 
It  is  an untruth. 
You asked me then to withdraw the remark unreservedly. Due to a misunderstanding with respect to the word 'untruth' I regret very much that I did not comply with your direction. I now withdraw the remark unreservedly and again express my regret. 
I want to raise tonight the very serious problem which is facing the Australian meat industry. It is becoming very apparent that the Australian Government will have to take a very close look at the meat industry and its future. At the present time there seems little doubt that we are running a very grave risk arising from overdependence on our United States market. Just under SO per cent of America's imports of meat come from Australia. Australian meat sales to the United States represent 66 per cent of our total meat sales, and the United States market has provided 80 per cent of Australia's beef export income. The problem would arise, of course, if Australia suddenly suffered a cut back on the American market. We know that there would be serious chaos in northern Australia because in that part of Australia beef production is almost exclusively a monoculture. -In the southern areas it would be very serious but at least there are possibilities for diversification. 
The important thing, however, is to find out where we are going with our meat exports. What is the United States policy towards Australian meat? There seems to be great difficulty in getting from the Americans some type of a standard which can be applied to Australian abattoirs and meatworks and which can be interpreted by our meat inspectors and veterinarians in the same way as the Americans do. We are faced with the political problem in 
America and it is no good underestimating it. There is a powerful meat lobby in the United States. I know when I lived there that lobby was powerful even in the Chicago area. Every Congressman who represented a cattle area was conscious of the fact that he had to do everything possible to get the greatest share of the markets for producers in his area. The southern and central United States producers are,  oi  course, putting pressure on. The pollution problem is being used today as an excuse to ban meat. What is the true policy of the United States on this particular problem? 
I want to refer to the position at Wyndham at the present time. This meatworks, one of the most important in northern Australia, has been de-listed and. as everybody who is concerned with the north knows, this is a very serious problem. This meatworks is the principal buyer of meat from a large area of country in the east Kimberleys as well as the western properties of the Northern Territory - that is the West Victoria River district. Irrespective of the reasons why this meatworks has been closed down, it is of tremendous importance to the economy of. the area and there seems to be confusion not only in Wyndham but in other meatworks throughout Australia as to just what the Americans want. Apart from the relatively small number of cattle exported on the hoof from the regions in the north, all of the cattle have to go through the meatworks either at Derby, Broome, Wyndham, Katherine or Vesteys. 
As regards the diversification scheme, we know the problem in the north. The diversification scheme is unfair as regards the north. In the first instance, the type of country, the standard of improvements and the climate as such produces a type of beef suitable only for manufacturing purposes and the number of markets other than the United States is limited. The second point is the seriousness of having to close down any of the meatworks in the north because there is no alternative to beef production. Prior to 1958 practically all of the beef exported from Australia came from the northern part of Australia. Because of the American market, it has only been since 1958 that the southern parts of Australia have come into operation, particularly in regard to mutton, cold beef or cracker cows. It will be many years yet before we get better quality beef to take advantage of the outlets made possible by diversification. Vesteys in Darwin is in a privileged position. It is amongst a chain of meat works and because of its ramifications it does not have the same problems with diversified markets as other meat works. 
As 1 see it, the most important aspect of this problem is that there has to be some agreement with the United States as to reasonable standards of hygiene and we must ensure that all licensed exporters adhere to those standards. Secondly, I think it is essential that some consideration be given to exempting the Wyndham, Derby, Broome and Katherine meat works from the Australian Meat Board's diversification requirements for a reasonable period, say, to 1975. Thirdly, there should be on the Australian Meat Board a beef producer representing the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys. The other point is that because of the diversification problem meat works in the north are often forced to purchase unused entitlements of southern Australian meat works at something like 5c per lb. Of course, this must have the effect of reducing the price of cattle offered in the north. I will conclude now because I would like to hear the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  say a few words, particularly about the Wyndham meat works. He knows full well the seriousness of this matter. It is in relation to these producers, exporters and cattlemen in the north that the problem is the greatest. The problem is not only what is happening now but also what will happen in the future. It is a most important matter and the Opposition will raise it later when there is more time to debate it. 
The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  referred in his speech to voting systems. I was most interested in his statement that he wanted a fair democratic system for voting and his criticism of the first past the post system. It is, of course, the policy of the Australian Labor Party that the first past the post system is a fair system. I noted that he was strangely quiet in regard to the one vote one value policy. If he is consistent in his argument he must on his own premise argue that one vote one value is also stupid and unfair. I remind him that the policy of the Liberal Party in Queensland is to have one vote one value. Therefore I assume that it must also be the policy of the Liberal Part)' in Canberra, if logic prevails, to have one vote one value. If we are going to argue that way about democratic processes we have at least to be consistent. 1 want to talk briefly tonight about cyclone 'Ada' and the work of the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology in relation to that cyclone. Before the estimates for the Department of the Interior were announced a special report of the Director of Meteorology on cyclone 'Ada' was made available to members of the Parliament and to the Press. 1 commend that report to all honourable members. This is an excellent report which clarifies issues of confusion, of charges and of ignorance which arose as a result of cyclone 'Ada!. The Bureau has carried out painstaking research into the causes and effects of the cyclone and has made recommendations as to the remedies to meet problems relating to the cyclone. The Director of Meteorology.  Dr Gibbs,  and the Regional Director in Queensland.  Mr Shields,  are to be commended for the work which they have done. They recognised the problem. Both of these men on the instruction of the Minister went into the north of Queensland. They conversed with all types of people who had various theories and ideas and they took evidence. I can say that they did an excellent job and that their efforts are appreciated. I hope that other departments will follow the example which has been set here. When a disaster occurs they should send their technical men into the field so as to gain knowledge and experience of the disaster. There were many lessons to be learned from this cyclone and I am pleased to say that a lot of the problems are now very obvious and in the future we will be able to prevent them from occurring. Some of the loopholes have been filled. 
It is my view that there is still a great deal of complacency in the north in regard to cyclones. One cannot help but take note of the conclusions reached by the Bureau of Meteorology that the north coast of Queensland can expect an average of one cyclonic disturbance every  3  years. The coastline between Townsville and Cape York is particularly vulnerable to a cyclonic disturbance once in every  3  years and from Townsville to Mackay, centering from Bowen to Mackay, once every  5  years. This conclusion in itself is fairly frightening because there had nol been a cyclone in the north for some time, until cyclone 'Ada' occurred this year. This is the first cyclone since  1958.  The people have become a little complacent about cyclonic disturbances. The report of the Bureau sets out quite clearly that we in the north can expect to get an average of one cyclonic disturbance in  3  years. The inquiry revealed serious weaknesses in weather forecasting, organisation and particularly in communications. One aspect about which something can be done is the critical position regarding communications. There is a need for co-ordination of the warning system, the communication media, those people in the field who have to carry out the instructions and, of course, the people in the north themselves. 
The inquiry found that the  2  critical messages were sent at  9.50  p.m. on the Saturday when the Bureau finally realised the intensity and the severity of the cyclone. This inquiry revealed that the  3  key radio stations -  2  in Mackay and  1  in Townsville - did not get the messages. This, of course, is why  1  for one had no hesitation in criticising the Commonwealth. I was critical because those radio stations did not get the messages. As I have said, the report has shown that the messages were sent at  9.50  p.m. but were not deliv ered. This is a very serious situation. It means that someone is to blame. The official reason given in the report was that the telephones were not answered at the radio stations. This is not good enough. Someone in the Postmaster-General's Department had those  3  messages - messages of death, if you like - of the approaching cyclone. 
Because someone in the PMG could not get the radio stations to answer the telephones these messages must have sat on someone's desk for  8  or  9  hours before the telephones rang at the radio stations the following morning, lt was during those  8  or  9  hours when the whole of the north should have been warned that the devastation took place. This is a serious matter because what the report actually implies is that someone - and it is quite clear to me by inference that this is the PMG - in Brisbane or Townsville received these very important telegrams from the Bureau but did absolutely nothing about them for S or  9  hours. With even average intelligence the person responsible must have realised how serious those pieces of paper were. Although someone did telephone, because of the extraordinary system in the north where facilities close down at the weekend the radio stations did not answer. The radio stations were either too busy to answer the telephone or had closed down. Instead of ringing up the police so that they could alert the whole of the area from Mackay to Townsville the person responsible apparently did nothing. This is what is implied in the report. 
I hope the Minister for the Interior will follow up this point because as f see it this experience shows that there is a wenk link. No-one can tell me that someone else besides the Postmaster-General's Department handles telegrams. The report says that they were not delivered. If someone in the PMG had rung the police, the police could have immediately notified and reopened the radio stations to broadcast the warning throughout the north. I shudder to think what would have happened in those  8  or  9  hours if the cyclone had struck the unsuspecting city of Mackay, which is on low lying ground and which at the time was asleep, unaware of the tragedy which was taking place a relatively few miles to the north. When the commercial stations came on the air the following morning I  heard with my own ears when I tuned in at 6 a.m. the announcer broadcast the latest meteorological report which he had received at about 8 or 9 o'clock the night before. The announcer did not even have the 9.50 report - which was the critical report. He in fact reported a message in which someone had added the words that it was not a very important cyclone. Whilst he was making this announcement people were dying. 
I am very thankful that this report was written. I do not know what circulation the Minister has m mind for the report but I hope that it will be circulated in the north. As I have said before, there is still an air of complacency among people up there, lt is essential that the provincial cities and the coastal towns in the north take a more positive view in planning for the next cyclone. I do not know whether people from the north are by nature complacent or casual, but a number of people I have spoken to up there say: 'Oh well, it will not happen again. It is finished. We will not get that type of cyclone again.' However, as I have said, on an average we will get one cyclone every 3 years. Somewhere between Mackay and Cape York a cyclone will strike with this frequency. Despite the seriousness of cyclone Ada it is still very doubtful whether emergency organisations are sufficiently geared to handle the savagery of another cyclone in the north. 
Although the report dealt only with the technical aspects and the consequences of this cyclone, the Commonwealth has to give more thought to co-ordination between the Services - the Army, Navy and Air Force- with respect to cyclonic disasters such as cyclone Ada. This is a field in which we have had a lot of duplication of problems. We have had State Ministers ringing up the Prime Minister or other Federal Ministers. We have had Federal Ministers ringing up someone else. We have had the situation where someone in the Air Force has had to say: 'This is about the fourth phone call we have had on this and the 4 phone calls have been different. What do you want? Someone wanted a squadron of aircraft and someone else wanted one aircraft.' There is bad planning and co-ordination in this field. There is a need for one person, whether it is the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  or the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to co-ordinate emergency services in time of disaster. Also, I think it is time that the Commonwealth and the States met to define the functions and powers of civil defence organisations in Queensland. This is not at all clear at the moment when civil disaster strikes. When cyclone Ada struck Mackay there was some confusion as regards the real function and power of civil defence units. 
I wanted to speak about the Northern Territory tonight and in particular I wanted to refer to the problems of diversification of meat markets and the type of meat produced in the Northern Territory. J said something about this last night on the adjournment. However, 1 will have to restrict my remarks tonight as I have only a few minutes left in which to speak. I would like to impress upon the Government that the cattle industry in the more remote areas of the north such as in the Ord, the west Kimberleys, the Northern Territory, Cape York and the northern breeding areas of the Gulf, are in quite a different position to other areas of Australia. This is so for 2 main reasons. The first reason is the type of beef produced. Because of the climate and the natural resources these areas are suitable in the main only for manufacturing beef. The second point is that most of the beef cattle industry in northern Australia Ls a monoculture. Industry in these areas is made up entirely of beef. There is no alternative. If the prices drop a producer cannot swing into sheep or into agriculture. It is a question of staying on the land. The north is quite different from many areas in the south where at least farmers can diversify a little. If one enterprise drops in price it is possible for farmers in the south to concentrate a little more on wool, grains or some other type of industry. But this is not the case in the north. 
For these 2 fundamental reasons the north is very vulnerable as regards a diversification scheme. The north does not produce quality beef to export to other markets. Also, the north is vulnerable to what happens in export markets. I mentioned last night what would be the result if anything happened to the American market because the north is so dependent on it for beef exports. If anything happens to that market the areas that will really cop it are the traditional export areas of the north. There is simply no other alternative for the type of beef that is produced in the north where today the emphasis is on quantity and not quality. 
by leaveMr  Speaker,  the Opposition welcomes the statement by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  The people of Western Australia, the Northern Territory and north-western Queensland are just as entitled to receive a television service as are persons in other areas of Australia. There can bc no doubt that, as far as Darwin is concerned, the commercial television station there will be a success. The basis of revenue for a television station is primarily advertising. The Darwin area is a growing and prosperous region. There can be no doubt that the people in the Darwin area and its hinterland will support this commercial television station. 
As the Australian Broadcasting Control Board points out, some economic problems may arise in relation to commercial television stations at Kalgoorlie and Mount lsa. But I do not accept this as a warning. Around Kalgoorlie and Mount Isa are rich established companies, both pastoral and mineral. In Mount Isa there is one firm which is noted for the amount of money it has spent on recreational facilities for the people of the area. Perhaps it leads other companies in Australia in this regard. I have no doubt that this company would not allow a commercial television station in that area to fail. A television station in Mount Isa would beam out to the rich pastoral companies in the lower Gulf area and the areas around Cloncurry and the Barkly Tableland. These rich organisations would not allow a commercial television set-up to fail. 
I can only say that this is something which is needed by the people in those areas. It will provide better recreational facilities for the people in the northern part of Australia. The people in the south have had these facilities for a very long time. It is also of interest to note an earlier statement made by the PostmasterGeneral that national television programmes will be available in Mount lsa at the end of the year and will be available to Cloncurry, Julia Creek and Richmond early in the new year. This will put the people in the northern areas in a similar position to the people in the south in terms of television facilities. They will have national television programmes as well as commercial television programmes. The Opposition supports the statement of the Minister. The only comment I have to make on behalf of the Opposition is that it is a pity the Government did not see fit to provide these facilities much earlier in the northern part of Australia and in the electorate of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  where television facilities have been badly needed over the years. 
The Bill before the House is designed to provide additional assistance to the tractor industry in Australia, particularly to the two main manufacturers of tractors, Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd and International Harvester Co. The objective of the bounty is to provide financial assistance on sales made of bountiable tractors on and from 1st July 1970. The additional assistance will be given only in respect of tractors manufactured at premises registered under the Australian Tractors Bounty Act of 1966. This legislation has been introduced as an emergency measure to meet what must be regarded as a crisis in Chamberlain Industries, in particular, and in International Harvester Co. of Victoria. 
This system of bounty payments has been in operation, 1 think from memory, since 1922. It is in tine with the classical tariff or bounty arguments which are advanced, that assistance should be given to Australian industries to help them to become established and viable, particularly in the face of dumping or cut-throat competition from other countries. In 1966 the Tariff Board published a report on agricultural tractors in Australia. In that tariff investigation various arguments were advanced for and against the giving of assistance by way of tariff or by way of bounty to assist the Australian industry. The same arguments apply today as applied in 1966. 
At existing prices and without assistance the local tractor industry would be unable to compete effectively against exports made by the large volume producers, particularly in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. It is also argued that there is in Australia - and this must be recognised - a potential for the saving of overseas exchange if the local tractor industry is expanded. It also must be accepted - and this of course is behind the Government's reasoning in providing this additional bounty - that Australian manufacturers are at a cost disadvantage in respect of labour, materials, and other production costs because of the comparatively small number of tractor plants in Australia. It must be quite clear that the same principles regarding cost of production criteria apply to the agricultural machinery industry as apply to, say, the motor car industry. Countries producing under mass production techniques have a decided cost advantage over smaller countries like Australia, particularly where there is fragmentation of factories. 
A further point is that decentralisation of the Australian tractor industry justifies special consideration, and in this respect, Chamberlain Industries, which is located in Western Australia, is faced with serious transport costs in marketing its products in the eastern States of Australia; Australia being a relatively large country. Another argument is that imported tractors are at present supplying most of the Australian requirements and that increased tariffs would therefore impose a considerable cost burden on using industries, and particularly on primary producers. 
One of the arguments used here is: Why not put a tariff on imported tractors? Why provide a bounty? Of course, this can be explained by referring to the economic principles involved in a tariff as opposed to a bounty. It should be quite clear that a tariff on imported tractors would only cause an increase in the price of tractors in Australia, whereas a bounty, which is more appropriate in this case, would not have the same effect. I believe that that is the fundamental reason why the Government has in fact taken action to pay a bounty rather than impose a tariff. Of course, the Opposition agrees 100 per cent with this reasoning. 
One must examine very closely the reasons why the tractor industry in Australia is in trouble. I think this is the fundamental issue which we should be discussing tonight. We should be discussing not so much the machinery provisions which are used to provide the bounty, but really why the bounty is necessary. One must come to the conclusion that the critical condition of primary industries throughout Australia is now starting to affect seriously secondary industries located in the cities. I have been hammering in this House for many years the fact that city people have to realise that their economic prosperity is directly depen-dent on export income earned from the sale of rural products. 
It is quite apparent now that the lag in sales of rural products which has occurred over the last 3 years due to drought, low wool prices, problems in the wheat industry and other economic conditions, is now catching up in terms of the multiplier theory as it affects secondary industry or the supplying industries. I believe this is the first serious warning to the Australian economy. Because primary industries are in a critical condition there has been a slackening in demand, and one has only to look at the White Paper which was presented with the Budget to realise this. Over the last 5 years there has been an actual decline in net farm income compared with a 40 per cent increase in income in secondary industry over the same period. 
When we consider that approximately 60 per cent of our export income is derived from products of primary industry, it is quite obvious that something has to go before very long. Of course, the first secondary industries which must go are those which are directly supplying primary producers, which is the area in which demand has fallen. For example, I refer to the agricultural machinery industry - the tractor industry, the equipment industry - and to the chemical industry. 
The tractor and agricultural implement industries are in such a desperate position now that wholesale sackings are taking place in Australia. It is obvious that the Government has to go further than this bounty. Emergency Federal assistance in addition to this bounty will need to be granted or may need to be granted in the future if these Australian companies are to be kept viable. In addition to the agricultural tractor manufacturers I refer to those suppliers of component parts - the sub-contractors, we might say. Many of them are being bankrupted. We do not hear much of them. They are not major firms. They may only be supplying ballbearings, some part of a front end or whatever it may be. But these firms are in serious financial trouble also. Honourable members may like to refer to them as backyard firms. 
Perhaps the only sector of agriculture in Australia today where stability exists in a major industry as far as maintaining demand for tractors and agricultural implements is concerned is the sugar industry. Our major export industries include the wheat industry, the wool industry and the dairy industry. The sugar industry is the only major industry today where stability of demand exists. In fact, a degree of prosperity is to be found in agricultural industries in the rural sugar towns. 
Because the sugar industry is the best organised agricultural export industry in Australia today. The decision by Massey-Ferguson (Aust) Ltd to dismiss a large proportion of its work force in Victoria reveals the seriousness of the problem. I am not attempting to make any emotive speech. These are facts. 
It has put off 500 men out of 2,500 employees. That is 20 per cent. Those are official figures. Out of a work force of 2,500, 500 men have been dismissed. Those are the figures for one firm only. There is more to come. These  men are not necessarily all skilled workers; but, nevertheless, most of them are men with families. This firm also has announced in the last 9 months a loss of $2m which is accumulating. The International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty Ltd in Geelong has been forced to sack 300 men. The proportion there is much higher. 
In addition to the serious decline in demand, Australian agricultural manufacturers have shown the Government that they are being hit by rising costs also. On the one hand, they have a slackening of demand caused by drought and other conditions in primary industry. They have increased costs of production. Against those factors, they have increasing pressures from overseas competitors through the importation of tractors and agricultural equipment. Because of rising costs, local firms are being placed at a serious disadvantage regarding competition with imported tractors. 
As I said before, the tariff in this instance is not the most satisfactory method of protecting local manufacturers because such a measure must lead to a higher price being asked for Australian tractors. This is what we must guard against. If this means a higher price, a further slackening of demand for agricultural machinery and tractors in Australia will result. In such circumstances, bounties to a local manufacturer on production and on the sale of tractors are more appropriate than assistance by tariff duties. I congratulate the Government on making this bounty applicable to sales of tractors. Up to now the bounty has been applied to the production of tractors. This Bill provides for the bounty to be paid on the sale of tractors. It is being applied of course in relation to the specific brake horsepower of individual tractors. 
The point that I wish to make and to stress very strongly is that the serious financial position of agricultural machinery industries is the first major warning that secondary industries in the cities will be affected if the prolonged depressed state of primary industry continues. Indirectly, this must affect other firms. For example, the sacking of 300 men in Geelong will affect their families and in turn will create a slackening in demand with grocers, butchers, bakers or whoever the supplier may be. The effect spreads through the economy. 
Imports are still running at record levels. But these imports must be financed. Certainly today- 
Imports from overseas. 
No. I am talking about imports- 
1 will show this. I am speaking about what has caused the slackening of demand. It is the critical condition of primary industry. Now, imports are running at record levels. These imports can be financed only by export income which is earned basically from primary industry,, minerals and secondary industry. Of these, primary industry is the major net contributor to export income. Any major failure in primary industry must lead to some counter device on imports with inevitable consequences of unemployment. We saw this happen in 196J. So, this is fundamental to the whole argument. This bounty is to assist an Australian agricultural industry and certainly an Australian agricultural manufacturing industry. But it is fundamental to the whole argument that the Government must take measures to make certain that primary industry, whether it be on the agricultural manufacturing side or on the production side, does not fail. If primary industry does fail as far as export income is concerned it must have adverse effects on secondary industry in general. Secondary industry is the main user of imports. 
The widespread economic stagnation in the rural sector which has shown no positive increase in the last 5 years is, as I said before, in sharp contrast to the gross national product of the non-farm income which has shown an average increase of 8 per cent per annum over the last 5 years. In other words, a serious imbalance is starting to show itself now in the cities or, particularly, the provincial cities. 
That is all that I wish to say. The Opposition supports this measure. It is an emergency measure. Through no fault of their own, the International Harvester Co. and Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd are in serious financial difficulties due on the one hand to a definite decrease in demand caused by the financial situation in primary industry and on the other hand by rising costs. 
However I ask the Government to have a closer look at this whole problem because it is what we might call the warning. It is not only agricultural manufacturing industries which will be in trouble. Indirectly this condition will spread. As anyone in the country or in country towns knows, once the nucleus fails, the first people to be hurt are the farmers, then the workforce, then the industry supplying die farmers and so it spreads indirectly through the community concerned. The same thing will happen with magnified effect in the cities if the chaotic conditions existing in primary industry and spreading through primary industry are not halted. 
I want to correct a misconception of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  who in this House this evening made certain allegations against me regarding wheat. It has come to my notice over a period of time that the honourable member for Mallee has been running around the countryside telling producers that I have been opposed to paying $1.10 a bushel as a first advance to wheatgrowers within the quota. This has come to my notice on several occasions. 
If I say that, it will be unparliamentary. He has attempted to justify this tonight by quoting from a speech I made. I have had the privilege now of reading that speech. Not one sentence in that speech justifies his contention. What he is trying to say or maliciously imply is that I am opposed to paying wheat farmers $1.10 a bushel for the first advance, despite the fact that in this Parliament on behalf of the Opposition I supported the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I have supported that statement many times in public and yet the honourable member has the temerity to say this outside many times. I assume that he will deny it. I have heard from other sources that he said it. In this House again tonight he attempted to say it. 
I am just referring to it. What I said is quite clear. I assume it would have the backing of every sensible member of this Parliament. With regard to the moneys being made available by the Commonwealth or through the Reserve Bank to the Wheat Board for advance to farmers, this is the accepted principle of making a first advance payment. What I said was that where you have a position of surpluses, where you have a position of uncertainty, you have to be extremely careful in the upper limit of what is advanced. That is entirely what the Minister for Primary Industry also said, in more blunt language than I used. This is what I said: 
It is obvious to everybody, to the industry and to the Government, that last year there would be large sums of money  unrepaid  in respect of the 1968-69 harvest. The Government then made another advance of $440m. Looking at it in perspective now- 
That is in 1970-  we see a total of $440m as the first advance for last year's crop and approximately $2S0m in unsold wheat or the equivalent still on hand. This amounts to a loan of from $650m to $700m having been made. The disturbing thing of which Parliament must take note- 
This was also stated by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)-  is the very serious economic problem of the consequence of making large advances to anyone when that money has been spent and the product for which it has been advanced has not been sold. 
In other words, how long can we continue to do this? This is the basis of the quota system - an upper ceiling on the amount of Commonwealth liability. All I was doing was warning the Government, which the Minister for Primary Industry did and I will later quote what he said. I said: 
The Government has now been warned about what can happen by being a guarantor for large proportions of wheat that cannot be sold at this point of time. 
The Minister for Primary Industry said even more than that. He in fact warned the industry that if it went above that ceiling he would reduce the $1.10. I do not think the honourable member for Mallee has even done his homework. I. will now quote what the Minister for Primary Industry, his office boy as the honourable member has referred to him, said- 
You know that is the truth. This is what the Minister for Primary 
Industry said on 30th April 1969: 'The limit of $440m must be observed. The amount is a large one. As honourable members know, the industry, through the Wheat Board, is now heavily indebted to the Reserve Bank and is likely to have an overdraft of as much as S200m at the time when advances on the next crop will be around their peak. In other words, there may be as much as $640m advanced to the industry in the early months of 1970.' That is exactly what I said. I suggest the honourable member for Mallee listen to this. The Minister continued: 'Let me make it clear that the sums I have mentioned will not be exceeded'. 
A warning. The Minister continued: 'If quotas are not implemented and if the quantity delivered to the Wheat Board exceeds 357 million bushels, then the first advance will have to be something less than $1.40'. This is far more than I ever said. Is the honourable member for Mallee going around the countryside saying that the Minister for Primary Industry said they will get less than $1.40? I ask the honourable member for Mallee to have some respect for the spoken word. He knows full well that what I said was a complete endorsement of Government policy on this, -because we argued in this Parliament for most of last year on the wheat crisis that there had to be some control on production and if the industry had a larger peak it was obvious that the first advance payment would have to be reduced. At no stage have I ever indicated, as the honourable member has been alleging about the countryside, that I am opposed to paying $1.10 as a first advance to wheat farmers. It is an untruth and he knows it. 
Australia's $250m annual export trade with the United Stales is threatened by incredible bungling, incompetence and intrigue. Either the United States is bowing to organised political pressure and deliberately adopting practices to inhibit and frustrate Australian meat exports or else the Australian Government is guilty of gross neglect in being incapable of understanding, interpreting and implementing United States meat inspection standards. The problem can be stated as bluntly as that. An intolerable situation has arisen in which an increasing number of important Australian meat works are being removed from the American export list on the flimsiest of excuses without any known protest by the Federal Government. The Government steadfastly refuses to confront the United States to obtain justifiable reasons for the high-handed United States action in removing an unwarranted number of Australian meat works from the United States trade. One-quarter of Australian meat works licensed to export meat to the United States have now been deregistered by United States inspectors. lt is absurd to believe that suddenly there has been a widespread breakdown of hygiene and inspection standards throughout Australia. Similarly, it is equally absurd to believe that the United States Government has suddenly reached the profound decision that the health of the American people is in danger because of imports of Australian meat. It is known that powerful United States pressure groups, backed by influential members of Congress, are hell bent to limit or even eradicate imports of 
Australian meat into the United States. Although there is no evidence of the United States inspectors in Australia vindictively abolishing export licences, many reasons for delisting must be classified as trivial. There is no doubt also that the upsurge of zealousness of United States meat inspectors in Australia is receiving the full support of the American meat lobby and those in the United States Congress who have vested interests in the cattle and meat industry. In addition to the powerful meat lobby, relentless pressure is being exerted against Australian imports by rival central and South American export interests. 
United States authorities, in defence of their actions - this in fact could be true - state that they are not banning any Australian meat works because of political pressure. They stale that the present situation is due entirely to misinterpretation of United States inspection standards by Australian authorities. Reports from Washington show that United States inspectors in Australia do not always accept the credibility of Australian meat inspectors. If the United States claim is correct - and I say if it is correct - the blame for the present fiasco must be borne by the Federal Government. There is no excuse for continuous technical misinterpretations by Australia, which have now cost 27 meat works throughout Australia their export licences. 
If Australia is unable to understand and implement US standards, it is a shocking indictment of Australian administrative authorities responsible for the interpretation and implementation of uniform US technical meat inspection standards. Because of the possibility of US escalation of the delisting of Australian meat works, the present complacent attitude of the Federal Government must be ended. Whether it be US political pressures or inefficient administration of standards in Australia, the Commonwealth has a responsibility to confront the United States wilh a demand for clear and unambiguous directions. 
Livestock and meat interests in Australia are fully entitled to know the truth about this most delicately balanced meat export market which is of great economic importance to Australia. America takes almost 60 per cent of our total meal exports valued at over $250ra annually. The United States Wholesome Meat Act which was passed 2 years ago is the key to hygiene standards demanded by the US in Australia. The Federal Government has no alternative but to insist that these standards are implemented and rigorously applied. If in fact US inspectors are guilty of mischieviously delisting Australian works for no just cause then direct confrontation with the US should occur without hesitation. The pussyfooting by the Federal Government is costing Australian meat works millions of dollars annually and is leading to chaos in Australia's export trade with the US. 
The US has an unfortunate habit of believing it can do anything better than anyone else and is inclined to look upon itself as 'the saviour of the world'. Official US reports on the standards of US meat works, however, suggest that a significant proportion of these are operating under shocking hygienic conditions inferior to most, if not all, of the meat exporting establishments in Australia that have been delisted by US inspectors. Apparently US authorities find it more convenient to wield the big stick and impose more rigorous hygiene standards in Australian meat works than they are prepared to impose in many of their own works in the US. Official Congressional reports reveal the frequent findings of rats and vermin infesting filthy US plants processing meat for human consumption. 
There also needs to be a clear policy laid down for Australian meat works on meat held in storage or on the high seas after works have been delisted. If the US authories are going to condemn all meat emanating from a delisted meat works, even though some of this meat may have been slaughtered and inspected by Australian inspectors weeks before the delisting date, this type of action will certainly lead to the bankruptcy of the smaller meat exporters. To illustrate this point I refer to the case of Wyndham. Here is an extraordinary situation, in which part of a very large consignment was off-loaded without any trouble on the west coast of America. More of this Wyndham meat was off-loaded at Tampa in Florida, but when the considerable balance left in the ship reached Philadelphia the official axe fell, on various pretexts. The meat was given the axe and dumped immediately. What sort of a policy is this? 
Meat works in Australia are in confusion. I use the term 'meat works' liberally because of the 27 which have been delisted 18 are slaughter houses and 9 are not. But the principle remains. What has to happen is that clear unambiguous directions have to be given by the Australian Government through its meat inspection services to Australian meat works. I am quite certain that almost every member of this Parliament who has a meat works in his electorate has had approaches or delegations from the authorities of meat works imploring them to try, for goodness sake, to get the Government to lay down some criteria which they can follow. At the present time United States meat inspectors and Australian veterinary surgeons have their own individual understanding of how these regulations apply, and these interpretations vary from meat works to meat works. We have seen in Victoria a meat works, which was considered to be of world standard, delisted with respect to the American trade. What we ask today is that at least the facts should be made known, the facts regarding the standards required by the US Government. These should be in clear unambiguous language so that meat works authorities in Australia can interpret and implement them, and at the same time our meat inspection standards should be enforced through our veterinary officers and meat inspectors, to comply with these rigorous provisions. Surely in this way there can then be no misunderstanding. If this escalation of delisting continues we will be faced with one unholy mess in our export trade with the US. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

I second the amendment. As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said, there is considerable confusion in Australia regarding the effects of containerisation as they have been fell up to the present and as they will be felt in the future. What the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has said very clearly is that if the port authorities and the shipping lines had continued to use conventional ships there would have been an increase in freights of about 20 per cent as against the increase of about 4i per cent which has occurred in the containerised service. What the Minister for Trade and Industry said is: 
I said that nothing had occurred lo alter the belief that the container system would mean lower costs and bring greater stability to freight rates. 
I cannot quarrel with the facts or the logic of the Minister's statement because only he can interpret what he has said. But what I can say is that Australian port authorities have been led up the garden path. They have been sold a pup. Their interpretation of what was put to them was that the introduction of containerisation would lead to reduced freight rates. What the Government has said, of course, is that costs have been reduced in the sense that if we had not had containerisation costs would have increased more. This is a kind of semantic sleight of hand. The port authorities are concerned because they know for a fact that costs have gone up. 
As the honourable member for Newcastle has said, there is considerable confusion throughout Australia, particularly in the outports, as to what is going to happen with respect to containerisation. The Government is trying to wriggle out of the decision that it has made. In this paper presented by the Minister for Trade and Industry we find nothing to justify the decision of the Government with respect to containerisation. There are many statements such as '1 understand' or 'I have been given information' but there is nothing of any detail about the main problem. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  was in north Queensland recently looking into the operation of meat ports. As he well knows, throughout Australia and particularly in the outports, there is considerable dissension among port authorities as to the introduction of containerisation, particularly as it will affect meat ports and centralisation. Members of the Australian Country Party often talk about centralisation but I think that if there is one party in this Parliament today that is talking more about centralisation it is the Country Party. 
On 24th July representatives of Overseas Containers Australia Pty Ltd visited the north Queensland ports advising the authorities that they had hoped to take over the export of meat for the United Kingdom and the North American trade as from January 1971. They said they wanted to transport the meat for the UK and the North American trade to Brisbane by rail for shipment in cellular container ships. This is what they advised the north Queensland port authorities, that by earl 1971 they wanted to make arrangements for meat destined for the North American and UK markets to be shipped through Brisbane. They also told the authorities there that they had decided not to use a container shipping feeder service from north Queensland ports. They also said they would accept delivery in Sydney from the Australian National Line coastal feeder service at freight rates competitive with Brisbane delivery but they were of the opinion that this was not possible because the ANL does not have the ships to carry out this service. The Overseas Containers Australia Pty Ltd representatives also stated that they were of opinion that Associated Steamships, which also operates a coastal feeder shipping service, would be free to operate intrastate but did not have sufficient ships to service the north Queensland meat export trade in containers. The OCA representatives claimed that the advantages of their service to north Queensland .ports are a 5-daily service and a uniform freight rate throughout Australia. The cost of freight to the terminal port would be borne by the Overseas Containers Ltd. 
The north Queensland port authorities have made the strongest possible protest to both the State and Federal governments regarding the behaviour of shipping companies and the future policy with respect to meat exports from the north. I speak with some experience in regard to Mackay which is one of the ports which will be affected in the future. I know that the Mackay Harbour Board has made in the strongest possible terms an appeal to the Minister for Shipping and Transport against the proposals which are apparently backed by the Government. The proposals are completely without justification. The Mackay Harbour Board, as have some other harbour boards, proceeded with the provision of costly facilities for the meat trade, containerisation and the coastal feeder shipping service. It is now to be deprived of the trade which was expected to flow through that port as a result of these facilities. In Mackay alone, since 1965, $100,000 has been invested in a cold store on the pier. This was instrumental in founding the Mackay meat export trade. it has been stated by a reputable firm, Thomas Borthwick and Sons (Australasia) Pty Ltd, that Mackay will be one of the most important meat export ports in Australia. Last year the Mackay Harbour Board completed the construction of a container terminal primarily for use by the ANL at a cost in excess of $700,000. That cost was shared with the Line and the facility is available for all container shipping. The Board's $350,000 outlay for containerisation was more than existing trade warranted but the Board went ahead in good faith. It believed the Government's statement that there would be feeder containerisation at that port. The authorities have now been told that this will not take place. At that time coastal feeder services were proposed in conjunction with terminal ports and it was in this context that the cost of carriage of containerised cargo from feeder ports to terminal ports was first envisaged as the responsibility of the overseas shipping companies. 
I want to refer to a letter dated 30th April 1969 from the Minister for Shipping md Tran "ort to the Mackay Harbour Board. Pie Minister said:  ix remains  the r'e:,  intention  of the container consol ti-.t. as  notified two  years ago, to provide feeder services from  north  Queensland, but this can only be done when il is economically feasible. 
He  went  on to say: 
You may  be  assured that the Government- 
That is, the Federal Government -  will continue to watch  the  position very closely to ensure that no section of the Australian exporting community is disadvantaged. 
That is seen to be a complete somersault when one considers what is taking place at the present time. The fact that a coastal feeder shipping service was considered up to this point in time substantiates its practicability but the Mackay Harbour Board hold the fear that its incorporation has been allowed to lapse without a fair trial. This is the salient point which I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry or the Minister for Shipping and Transport to consider: Is it true that the coastal feeder service will not operate? Has this service been allowed to lapse without even a fair trial? If the service is not to operate then I say that this is certainly double-crossing the north Queensland port authorities who promoted the meat export trade so strenuously, provided a cold store and container shipping facilities and have now been told that the coastal feeder service will not operate. Representatives of Overseas Containers Ltd have said that it is still not too late for the Australian National Line to service the overseas container meat export trade by procuring the ships and offering competitive delivery for transshipment in Sydney. But Coastal Container Service is less adequate. It just does not have the ships. In fact, a letter from the general manager of the line advises the north Queensland ports as follows: 
The line is aware that the introductory service now catered for by 'Sydney Trader' is running close to capacity and consideration has to be paid to potential growth aside from feeder cargo and generating support from shippers currently using other modes of transport because of frequency. 
This letter indicates clearly that Coastal Container Service will not be interested in feeder services from the north with respect to meat. This is the only assumption that can be made. The harbour boards of the meat ports in the north subscribe to the reasoned opinion that the only proper action in this plan for rationalisation of shipping is to utilise the coastal container shipping feeder service for the purpose for which it was provided, but on no account to abandon what has been provided without a fair trial. This is the crux of the problem. There is confusion in the north. Capital has been expended on improved port facilities, cold storage and for containerisation. Certainly at present United Kingdom trade represents only a small proportion of the meat trade but people in the north have been notified by representatives of OCL that the American trade could be affected in the future. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport was in my electorate at the weekend. It was his second visit there in a short time and it was related to the problem at the ports of Bowen and Mackay. 1 might say in passing, although it does not worry me, that he is the only Federal Minister who does not notify the Federal member when he is coming officially into an electorate. 
You are not a senator, you are a Minister. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport has come into my electorate twice officially but I have not received any official advice of the visit. He is the only Minister who acts in this way. The Minister has said that Mackay's future is not as a beef port. What cheek is this! The Minister for Shipping and Transport is not an expert on this matter. He pays a flying visit to the area and tells Borthwicks and all others: 'You have no future as far as Mackay being a major export port for beef is concerned'. Why does the Minister think that the Government is spending millions of dollars on brigalow development in the area? The beef roads leading into Mackay have been designed to cater for the export of beef and other meat from Mackay. Is it any wonder that this morning in Mackay there has been considerable comment on this matter? 
It is high time that the Government had a good look at the whole problem and came clean with the facts. As the Minister well knows, there is confusion not only in the north Queensland ports but throughout Australia about what will happen with containerisation and what will happen to the outports. The Minister was reported in this morning's Press as saying that Mackay harbour was losing the meat export trade to Britain but that most of the United States trade, which was much more important than the British trade, will still be centred on ports like Mackay. This is quite different from what the harbours boards have been notified by representatives of the container services, namely, that they are considering the possibility of the future North American trade also to be centralised from the southern ports. This is very serious because although a port like Mackay is diversified and can probably stand the loss of part of the beef trade, what about the ports of Bowen and Port Alma if anything happens to their meat exports? 
Yes, ports throughout Australia. There can be no doubt that there are few subjects where the Government has been more guilty of bungling than in the field of containerisation. This statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry tells us nothing at all. It simply attempts to tell us that this is still the best service. No details are given to justify any of the figures and that is the reason why the honourable member for Newcastle has moved the amendment. 

 - Mr Speaker, 

I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry a question which refers to the maximum stock clauses of the International Sugar Agreement whereby Australia has the right this season to store approximately 470,000 tons of sugar. Is the Minister aware of the consequences of the final sugar acquisition which, for technical reasons, could mean the deliberate destruction of up to 1 million tons of sugar cane this season by those farmers who are unable to stand-over cane, most of whom are small or medium size farmers who cannot afford the additional cost and the crazy economics of deliberately destroying food and then replanting the same crop mostly in the same area? Is the Minister also aware that a major reason for not accepting more sugar is that of insufficient storage? If this is so, are not the maximum storage rights under the International Sugar Agreement quite meaningless under present conditions in Australia? 
The principal objective of the Bill before the House, which is a machinery Bill, is to amend the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act in order to make provision for payment of an export bounty of $3,379,000 on non-fat milk products - that is, an export bounty on skim milk powder, dried buttermilk and casein. It would appear that the decision to pay the bounty on non-fat milk products is part of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the industry, whereby the Commonwealth has undertaken to support a final payment of 34c per lb, commercial butter equivalent, at the factory door to producers if the industry limits its production to 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese. As has been stated, at this level of production the bounty will entail total payments by the Commonwealth of $42,882,000. This additional bounty to the manufacturers of these products will entaila total payment of $3,379,000. It should be made quite clear that these payments in relation to this export bounty relate only to 1970-71. 
This decision is important to the producers because the bounty constitutes a significant proportion of the returns of dairy farmers and of course of the manufacturers of these processed products. The payment of this bounty will make a counter allowance for the previous allowances paid to butter factories for solids not fat in milk at the 1969-70 level, and in actual fact the payments for these solids not fat are a reflection of the amount of devaluation compensation paid in ' respect of this type of product. So it is quite clear that what the Government has done is to enter into an arrangement with the industry to limit production to 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese, and in return to underwrite or to guarantee under equalisation an average of 34c per lb commercial butter equivalent and at the same time to allow this export bounty in lieu of devaluation compensation. That is the crux of this machinery Bill. 
One might ask: How important are these non-fat products? They are quite important because they really are by-products of butter itself and their production has continued to increase in the last 12 months. The production of skim milk powder has increased to 91,000 tons and production of casein has increased to 31,500 tons. These are quite significant increases in the last 12 months over the figures for the previous 12 months. Not only are we producing increasing amounts of non-fat processed milk products, but we are also increasing our exports of non-fat milk products. Exports of bulk skim milk powder continued their upward trend in 1969-70 to reach 52,800 tons, which was an increase of 16 per cent over the previous year. Exports of casein also continued to climb to 30,000 tons, which again represented an increase of 16 per cent over the previous year. So in actual fact the production and manufacture of non-fat products have increased. In regard to the value of sales of these products, which I suggest is a most important point, the value of the overseas sales of bulk skim milk powder increased by 37 per cent, to $8,390,000, and the value of the sales of casein rose by 14 per cent over the value for the preceding year, to $12.5m. The production, export and value of sales of non-fat products, as represented by dried buttermilk, casein and skim milk products, have increased all round. 
One other point which I should like to make regarding this Bill is that a significant change seems to be taking place in the policies of Asian countries, particularly in the tropical and sub-tropical areas, which are importing some of our non-fat products and our fat products also. The policy of these countries is to import the basic raw materials, which are essentially anhydrous milk fat and skim milk powder, and then to manufacture the anhydrous skim milk fat and milk, powder into products of their own choice. Some of these tropical and subtropical countries are introducing policies which seem to impose tariffs or special licensing provisions which, of course, can have the effect only of increasing the price of Australian products in these countries. In the future this could well be quite a serious blow to Australia. 
As we know, various commercial reconstitution plants - and there are some 27 of these in operation - would be placed in a rather awkward position if the price of the basic raw materia) is increased. This is something at which the Australian Government will have to look closely, in conjunction or in consultation with the tropical and sub-tropical countries, particularly in Asia. As I sard before, this is really a machinery Bill in the sense that it provides for an export bounty on non-fat products, whereas before, solid non-fat components in milk attracted devaluation compensation payments, lt is important to note that devaluation payments will cease after 1970-71. It is not known what will happen after that, but it would seem that the export bounty will be substituted, at least on a temporary basis, for devaluation compensation payments. 
The only other point I should like to make is that this procedure follows the same pattern with respect to other milk products containing butterfat, in that the bounty is paid to the producers of the product. That is the important point. Taken by and large, the Opposition has no argument with the machinery process of substituting an export bounty for devaluation compensation. The only question one could ask is: What is going to happen after 30th June 1971? Are we to have a continuation of the export bounty, or are we to have a reintroduction or devaluation compensation. The Minister for Primary Industry has said that he cannot commit the Government and cannot make announcements on this, but it would seem that if industry does limit production to the figures that have been promised - 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese - then they could look forward to an underwriting by equalisation of 34c per lb commercial butterfat equivalent and a continuation of an export bounty for the non-fat production of skimmed milk, dried butter milk and casein. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a motion being moved by the honourable member for Dawson requiring  this period of sittings of the House to be continued until the Government's wool legislation has been introduced and dealt with by both Houses. 

 Mr Speaker, in view of your previous ruling I will confine my remarks to why I believe there should be a suspension of standing orders. In the first instance- 
Should 1? 
On this suspension of Standing Orders - no. 
1 might say at the outset that the Opposition protests against the farce of sitting at this hour of the night. At the moment there are 4 members of the Parliament in the chamber. 
There are 5 members now that the honourable member has come in, and there are more staff and members of the Press present than there are members of the Parliament. If this is not a disgrace to- the national Parliament 1 do not know what is. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act 1969 to authorise retrospective payment of the increase in bounty applying from 13th August 1969 on those stocks of bountiable fertilisers which were held by re-sellers at that date. This is the purpose of the amendment. The object of the previous legislation, the parent Bill of last year, was to allow the bounty on stocks held at midnight on 12th August 1969 by the manufacturers themselves. It was quite obvious that resellers who held stocks would be penalised because they would be forced to reduce their prices to meet competition by others who had in fact received the benefit of the bounty. Honourable members will recall that several protests were made about this anomaly and the Government has now decided to rectify it A new section will be inserted in the Act for the application of the increased rates of bounty to superphosphate, ammonium phosphate and phosphatic fertiliser mixtures. This will mean that the anomaly affecting resellers will be eliminated. 
In Australia over 90 per cent of the phosphatic fertilisers that are used are in the form of a single or standard superphosphate. The position in America is quite different. In that country only 4 per cent of the phosphatic fertilisers are single or standard superphosphates. One may ask for a technical explanation why there is such a big difference between the usages in the 2 countries. Of course, the types of phosphatic fertilisers used are entirely different. In Australia we have concentrated for years on standard superphosphate, but it appears that because of increasing freight rates in this country, shipping freight rates as well as our own domestic land freights, there is a trend towards phosphates of higher analysis or towards more concentrated phosphates. 
The single or standard superphosphate of 22 per cent P205 will probably be replaced to an increasing degree by double super and triple super. Double super is approximately 45 per cent P205 and triple super about 50 per cent. This development makes sense when one considers that with aerial agriculture, which is becoming more important in the application of phosphates, double and triple superphosphate can be spread at considerably lower cost than the single or standard superphosphate. In Australia a greater amount of research is now being carried out in the field of polyphosphates. Here again I think we can see some trend towards fertilisers of higher analysis in the future. 
You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are probably very conscious of the fact that debate on this Bill is limited since its purpose is merely to rectify an anomaly. I may say in passing, however, that phosphatic fertilisers have made one of the greatest contributions to agricultural development in Australia that we have ever seen. We know that the marriage of superphosphate and subterranean clover has transformed a very large part of southern Australia. We know also that the combination of Townsville lucerne and superphosphate is producing a similar result in the north. One of the disturbing features, however, is the declining sale of superphosphate. This, of course, must be very closely related to the decrease in plantings of wheat. In 1963, 2.8 million tons of superphosphate were sold. This amount increased progressively up to 4.3 million tons in 1967, and it declined to 3.6 million tons in 1969-70. This is something at which the Government must look very closely. Whether it can all be attributed to the decline in wheat one does not know for certain, but there certainly has been a significant reduction in the sales of superphosphate. 
I raise a matter that 1 have raised several times before in this Parliament, that is, the superphosphate bounty, which is of direct relevance to this Bill. I have made the point on several occasions that there are grave doubts as to whether the farmers are getting the full benefit of the bounty. The last time that I made this statement the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  was quick to get to his feet and challenge me. He said that the farmers were getting the full benefit because the bounty meant a reduction in the price of superphosphate. No-one could accept that argument. I draw an analogy with a retail shop which sells a refrigerator at a big discount. In order to give a greater discount it increases the initial price. It is the weighted final figure that counts. 
Although it is impossible to estimate the figure accurately, one can take it from a comparison of prices that the farmer is not getting the full benefit of the bounty. It is interesting to note that if the present bounty of $12 a ton for superphosphate were applied to the 1963 pre-bounty price, the cost of superphosphate in Victoria would be approximately $5.93 a ton. If we were to spread the bounty over the various parties who are concerned in the production and sale of superphosphate the farmers would get approximately five-twelfths. In other words, for every $12 a ton bounty $5 would go to the farmers. 
This Bill is a machinery measure designed to give to the States greater scope to enable them to establish works for the processing of fish for either domestic consumption or export. Another purpose of the Bill is to provide for the omission of Nauru from the scope of the Fisheries Act following the granting of independence to that country. The Opposition supports the Bill and believes that the principles embodied in it are very sound. I refer particularly to the underlying principle of rationalisation with respect to the secondary side of the fishing industry - the processing or manufacturing side. In northern Australia in particular in recent years one of the problems has been the number of processing works. It is quite clear that there is only a certain amount of fish in a particular area at a given time and that this will vary with the seasons. This has been evident in the Gulf of Carpentaria in recent years. It is clear also that the number of processing works has a direct correlation with the catch available. 
In poor seasons, such as are experienced in the ocean, just as droughts are experienced on land, because considerable fixed capital is invested in processing works it is clear that the management of the works will apply pressure to the fishermen in order to get as great as possible a quantity of fish or prawns, or whatever it might be. In such conditions there is always the grave danger of grounds being fished out, of breeding stock being fished out or of catches of undersize fish. As was stated by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech on this Bill: 
. two prawn processing companies in northern Australia have already failed because of their inability to secure  a  share of the total catch sufficient to make their operation economically viable. 
The provision of the Bill relating to this aspect of the industry is to be applauded because if there is one thing that we want to avoid it is the depletion of our natural resources. Experience has shown already in some parts of Australia that our natural resources can be depleted. In the Northern Territory the Commonwealth has shown a responsibility by limiting the number of processing works to be established. In addition, it is allowing the Queensland Government to license processing works for domestic and export activities. As a result we can expect a rationalisation in the areas where it is needed. There is no doubt that we still do not know very much about Australian breeding grounds for fish and prawns and that a considerable amount of research is still needed. In northern waters prawns have always been a bit of a mystery because of the way that they move from bed to bed. I know that in areas in my electorate in some years the fishermen get magnificent catches of prawns. They think they find a nice spot and they are right for life if nobody else finds it, but they can come back next year or next season, no-one else having been there, and they will not catch  a  prawn. These are the sorts of things that puzzle scientists. Why do the prawns move? What is their life cycle? 
The same thing is going on in a much bigger way in the larger beds such as those in the Gulf of Carpentaria. The theory that has been enunciated quite frequently by the Aboriginals living on the shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria is that you will never get big catches of banana, king or tiger prawns in the Gulf unless there has been a good wet season. There seems to be a relationship between the amount of mud in siltation and the amount of mud that flows as a fresh from the river into the sea. Whether this is right or wrong, I have not the faintest idea, but this is the type of thing that research will find out. The Aboriginals have put forward the hypothesis, lt is a question of testing it. These are the sorts of things which , will be done in great detail for the benefit of Australia under the legislation relating to research and to the rationalisation of processing works. I assume that most people like mud crabs. 
I agree; they are a great delicacy. But there seems to be a diminishing number of mud crabs in some of the favourite haunts which we think are not necessarily being fished out. Here again is a delicacy which should be preserved by proper husbandry. I think that as the Commonwealth extends this interest- 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  says there is a shortage of females. This one of the things that has to be stopped. Unfortunately, it is a requirement of which a lot of people refuse to take any notice. They catch the jennies and eat them just as they do the male crab. This is against the law, but unfortuntaely it does go on. The o'.her purpose of the Bill makes it more easy to collect the levies which are applicable te the Fishing Industry Research Act of 1969. As I understand this Bill, one of the main objections is that because of the recent judgment in the case of O'sullivan v. Noarlunga Meat Pty Ltd there was some great doubt - probably a valid doubt - as to the right of the Queensland authorities to collect levies on behalf of the Commonwaelth unless there were some legislation supplementary to the Act. As I see it, this measure will stop the gap now and there should be no doubt about the validity of the Stale's right to collect the levies with respect to research. This will then allow a matching grant to be made available by the Commonwealth for education extension and development. That is all I have to say on the Bill. As I said before, the Opposition supports the motive behind it. We believe it is sound in principle. It is to be noted that the Commonwealth is not going to go into the field of processing except in the Northern Territory. It will allow the States the right to license for domestic and export purposes. At the same time, what the Opposition likes about the Bill is the principle of rationalisation whereby the State can say to a company or companies: 'No more than two or three processing works in this area until we are satisfied that the ground can permanently support more than that number of processing works.' There is nothing more detrimental to the fishing areas of the north, in particular, than to have too many fishermen ia one area. This happened in recent years in the Gulf of Carpentaria. Almost every launch in Northern Australia was heading for the Gulf. There were also a few foreign ship.? in the area. There seems to be interest in establishing more and more processing works. This must lead to serious problems. This Bill will give the States the rights to prevent these problems. 

 - Mr Speaker, the failure of the Federal Government's monetary and fiscal policies to halt the insidious increase in costs and prices throughout the nation demands that the Government be given constitutional powers to intervene directly in Australian industry for the regulation of prices of basic industrial commodities such as steel, aluminium, oil, petrol and chemicals. The Trade Practices Act has been useful in exposing some of the nefarious practices being followed by Australian industry. But this Act has been completely ineffective in achieving its objective of 'preserving competition in trade and commerce to the extent required by the public interest'. The Commonwealth has no direct powersof price control under the Constitution. But the man in the street and the man in the farming community throughout Australia are fed up with the ceaseless caning they have taken from the cost price spiral. If the Commonwealth went to the people via a referendum, to obtain the right to intervene in the pricing structure of Australian industry for the good of the nation, I believe it would receive an overwhelming vote of approval. 
The economic and political climate is vastly different now from what it was in the immediate post war years when the public rejected the Commonwealth's request for price control powers. Labor does not see Commonwealth power to control and regulate the price structure in industry as being the control of every conceivable commodity price. This would be intolerable and is unnecessary. Rather the Commonwealth should have the power to intervene, when necessary, in those major basic industries, which exert a profound influence on the price level of the economy, such as steel, aluminium, oil, petrol and chemicals. These are the major price prime movers in the economy. These are the areas in which the Commonwealth should take an active and regulatory interest. It is axiomatic that stability in the level of prices means stability in the level of wages. The Commonwealth's role should be to veto any significant increase in the prices of basic commodities, if it believes those increases are not justified. Justification for the price increases of these basic commodities should then be proven or otherwise, before a public tribunal. At the same time the farce surrounding the weakness of the Trade Practices Act should be ended. This Act must be given teeth so as the highly objectionable practices of non-competition and colusive tendering, blatantly followed by major sectors of industry, can be publicly exposed and prosecuted. 
The present Liberal-Country Party Government throughout its 21 years of power has been opposed to any form of price regulation. It must be patently clear to everyone that the Government's 'hands-off and so called domestic free-enterprise policies have been a monumental failure in stabilising prices and wages in Australia. Monopolistic and collusive practices have been allowed to intensify at an alarming rate. Restrictive and exploitative trade practices have reaped exorbitant profits for companies enjoying high tariff protection Price fixing agreements, with the objective of banning price competition, now dominate a major section of Australian industry. As a result of the Government's refusal to take positive action to hak the serious injustices which are being perpetrated on a helpless buying public, the consumers, comprising mainly wage and salary earners, farmers and small business complexes are fighting a continuous uphill battle. Those on fixed pensions, of course, are in a hopeless position. Their very existence depends on charitable handouts at Budget or election time and their standards of living are forever lagging behind price increases. 
The virtually uncontrolled increases in prices in Australia have had a serious effect on the export rural industries, which are still the major source of export income for the nation. These industries are living on borrowed time unless effective action is taken to restore and maintain their previous real income standards. The cost-price squeeze is constantly forcing the smaller traditional farmers out of the industry. The recent fall in wool prices clearly shows that wool industry, under continuous pressure of rising costs, is in no position to withstand the shock of a serious fall in wool prices. National chaos and despair reign throughout the wool industry, which provides 25 per cent of Australia's net export earnings. Many manufacturing industries which are trying to break into the export market now are finding their efforts continually sabotaged by increased production, marketing and shipping costs. Competition between wages and prices is a running battle to maintain the economic survival of many of our rural industries, lt has all the earmarks of a vicious struggle in the future, with the wage earner and farmer desperately trying to survive the cancerous erosion of their living standards by accelerating cost increases. 
The domestic mechanism controlling the economy is seriously out of balance. Until a measure of stability is achieved by applying the brakes to all major inflationary forces, the self generating processes of price and wage increases will continue as the core of inflationary costs. In 1949  Sir Robert  Menzies promised the Australian public that the Liberal-Country Party Government would put value back into the  1.  Let as examine its record of achievement. Since 1950 the general consumer price index has increased by 60 per cent, which is the average increase in the capital cities. The relevant increase in provincial cities and country towns is much higher. 
The farm sector, traditionally the hardest hit by rising costs and inflation, has taken an unmerciful battering. Since 1950 farm production and marketing costs in Australia have risen by an average of 170 per cent. The serious gap between farm costs and prices received by farmers has been overcome to some degree by increased farm productivity. But every rural export industry in Australia is walking an economic tightrope which is being progressively weakened by the stranglehold exerted by the tightening cost-price squeeze. Married people trying to buy a home in the cities or the country and to rear a family are the cruel victims of the Government's apathy regarding uncontrolled price increases. A most serious increase has occurred in the housing field. Since 1950 housing costs have increased by 105 per cent. Interest charges and land prices have been major determinants of this increase. The Government must accept a major share of the responsibility for the increase in housing costs. Traditional monetary policy of raising interest rates to slacken aggregate Australian demand has had an adverse effect on the cost of housing, which is subjected to continuous demand pressures from population growth spurred along by migration programmes. High interest rates, for example, are imposing crippling burdens on young Australians who are struggling to own a home and to purchase essential household goods. At a 7 per cent interest rate and a 25-year repayment period, interest payments as a percentage of total capital costs exceed 55 per cent. Australia should follow the established practice in the United States of America and the United Kingdom of allowing interest costs paid by house buyers as a full income tax deduction. 
Food prices are closely . correlated with wage and general price levels. Since 1950 food prices have increased by 56 per cent. Only an estimated 7 per cent of this increase has been due to subsidies to farmers. Almost all food price increases have been the direct result of the uncontrolled inflation spiral of the forces of supply and demand. The root of the pricing problem in Australia, which is vividly brought out in the annual report of the Trade Practices Act. is the breakdown of genuine price competition between those industries which exert a profound influence on the general level of economic activity in Australia. Not only is there a firm reluctance among important sectors of industry to engage in price competition, but the Australian market is riddled with collusion and collective price agreements mostly designed to benefit the manufacturers at the expense of the consumer. This is particularly so with homogeneous products such as steel, chemicals and petrol. 
In such circumstances the Commonwealth must reinforce its monetary and fiscal policies and powers with the right of direct intervention in the commodity pricing structure of industry in Australia. If the Government wishes to tackle this problem it must strengthen the Trade Practices Act and negotiate for effective complementary legislation in the States. The ability of industry to reach common agreements on price and to ban price competition throughout Australia is one of the worst features of the monopolistic practices employed in this country. In such circumstances firms devote most of their competitive effort to securing a large share of the market or as large a share of the market as possible within the common price agreement. An example of the wasteful capital expenditure incurred in many industries is the multitude of petrol stations in some areas. This is evidence of a wasteful use of fixed capital. Uncontrolled and violent price wars may not be desirable in the interests of stability but healthy price competition has always been regarded as one of the best methods to achieve efficiency both in industry and in the use of the nation's resources. There is little doubt that high tariff protection for some industries is having a marked effect on price levels. Evidence presented in the annual reports of the Tariff Board and on the Trade Practices Act clearly reveals the compelling need for a thorough overhaul of the tariff in Australia. 
Of great concern to the Government should be the intolerable position of the major export rural industries, particularly those which are mainly unprotected. Official figures of the relationship of aggregate farm income to farm costs in Australia reveal the seriousness of the increase in prices. It is true that in the last 15 years substantial increases in productivity on farms have occurred. This is reflected in the increase of the gross value of rural production by around 50 per cent during this period despite the fact that the overall average of farm commodity prices has remained static. 
This is a magnificent achievement. On the other hand, total farm costs have increased in this period by over 100 per cent. Taking into account gross costs and gross income the aggregate value of net farm income of the rural sector in this period has not increased. Thus in real terms the financial position of the rural sector has deteriorated. This decline has now reached serious proportions as the rate of increase in farm costs has greatly accelerated at the expense of rural commodity prices. Evidence presented in the last Federal Budget shows that over the national financial scene the rural sector is economically sick. 
The Government has made much play of the 35-hour week. Let me put this in perspective in terms of costs. Official figures of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics indicate that in the rural sector wages account for approximately 21 per cent of total costs. To decrease the number of hours worked from 40 to 35 would mean a one-eighth or 2.6 per cent increase a total farm cost would occur; or an increase of 2.5c per bushel in the price of wheat. If the Government took more note of interest rates, shipping rates and things like that which are increasing the cost of production in the rural sector of the economy it would do a far better job. The most important thing that this Government can do is to declare its policy on the present inflationary spiral and take positive action in the field of trade practices to reduce costs in Australia. It has power under the tariff regulations and it should have power under the Trade Practices Act. If it adopted that course of action the farmers of Australia would get a fair go and would not be subjected to the disadvantages of the present iniquitous system that this Government has implemented. 
The principal objective of the States Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Bill 1970 is the financing of a programme of measurement of the flow of rivers and the investigation and measurement of underground water resources. The House will remember that in 1961 the then Prime Minister of Australia,  Sir Robert  Menzies, made an announcement in his policy speech that he intended to discuss with the 
State Premiers the possibility of establishing a water resources council. In 1962 the State Premiers agreed that this in fact was a very good move. The formation of the Australian Water Resources Council was then proceeded with. I think the Minister responsible for this measure at that time was  Sir William  Spooner and the head of the Department of National Development was  Sir Harold  Raggatt, both of whom played a major part in the establishment of the Water Resources Council and, with the State Premiers, in the formulation of the functions of that Council. 
The principal objective of the Water Resources Council was the provision of a comprehensive assessment on a continuing basis of Australia's water resources and the extension of measurement and research so that future planning could be carried out on a sound and scientific basis. There was no question but that this particular objective very much needed to be achieved in Australia because with practically all of the major works of irrigation and hydroelectricity in Australia there had been an element of guesswork as regards stream flow and the capacity of rivers over a period. Anyone familiar with some of the dry areas of Australia would realise that it is very important to know what the stream flow is over a great number of years - years in which there may have been a drought or there may have been floods. This knowledge is essential from an engineering as well as an economic point of view and this measure is one of the most important that the Government has introduced in the field of water research. However, the Water Resources Council was concerned not only with surface water. I suppose that as far as resource development is concerned there are few areas which have had less research than the area of underground water and yet it is quite apparent that in the future Australia as it develops will have to rely more and more on this resource of underground water. 
The first official assessment of water resources undertaken by the Council showed that the average annual discharge of Australia's rivers was about 280 million acre feet, of which approximately 38 million acre feet was discharged in Tasmania. If the discharge of Australia's rivers was spread over the entire continent it is estimated that there would be approximately 1.6 inches of water covering the continent compared with 9 inches in the United States of America which is approximately the same area as Australia. On an international comparison it does show that Australia is an extraordinarily dry continent. 
I briefly mentioned the physical side of the measurement of water flow. Water storages are required not only for irrigation purposes but also to enable municipal and local government authorities to supply the water needs of the consumers living in provincial cities and country towns. It is clear that the flow of streams is of extreme importance to engineers concerned with the impounding of water. The measurement of stream flow is important not only in terms of the volume of water but also as to the reliability of supply. We all know that many areas in Australia are subject to floods. We are aware of the devastation that can be caused by flooding. My own area of north Queensland is periodically subject to devastating floods. On the other hand the same area is also subject to devastating droughts. Droughts occur in areas where we see from year to year millions of acre feet of water flowing wastefully to the sea. 
It is obvious that the development of water resources in Australia will continue despite the knockers, and there are plenty of them. These knockers seem to have an obsession against the conservation of water. I have always been puzzled why they are opposed to water conservation. I am not saying that I have always endorsed the spending of money irresponsibly just to build a dam to conserve water. I do not endorse the damming of all rivers, but I am certainly in favour of constructing dams in proven and established areas which are susceptible to major droughts and in which over a cumulative period of years hundreds of millions of dollars have been lost in production. In the Bundaberg district there has over a period of years been tremendous loss in production and this alone has justified the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. Yet we find plenty of knockers in Australia who condemn this type of project being undertaken in a proven and established area. 
It cannot always be argued that one project has a greater priority than another. It is for this reason that we should have thorough cost-benefit analyses undertaken to determine project priorities. In regard to the measurement of water resources 1 do not think that there is one member of this Parliament who would disagree with this concept and the objective involved. We have to have water stream measurement. It is a great tragedy for Australia that we did not know more about water capacities before today. If there had been available to us more information relating to the behaviour of our rivers it would have helped us to save a lot of the money that has been spent over the years in the construction of dams. 
One of the important aspects of this Bill is in relation to underground water. It is easy to visualise water flowing clown a river and the installation of water measuring equipment to record the stream flow on a type of graph; but it is not easy to visualise research into underground water particularly in the sub-artesian basin. I think it can be said that, in general, underground water moves fairly slowly compared to the movement of surface water. Anyway, this is the conclusion that has been reached in research. We should consider the techniques that are used for measuring not only the capacity but also the movement of underground water. In the Burdekin district in Queensland underground water has been a major factor in recent years in replenishing the aquifers. If this replenishment had not taken place there would have been a tragic loss in the delta areas in that area of Queensland. However, this is only a temporary solution to the problem. The real solution is without doubt the establishment of proper conservation projects such as the Burdekin Dam and the Burdekin Falls project which would in terms of magnitude often shock people. The Burdekin Dam would contain 16 times more water than the Sydney Harbour. This will give honourable members an idea of the tremendous capacity of that river. That project, after making some allowance for technology in regard to the draw of water, would be one of the cheapest dam projects in Australia to construct. This does not mean that water reticulation and development over time would be cheaper. The construction costs alone would be relatively low. However before construction commenced it would be necessary to obtain all the facts. The purpose of this Bill is to measure systematically and scientifically the flow of water into many rivers and even the creeks which flow into our major tributaries entering the sea. The Opposition completely supports, as it has always supported, legislation dealing with the development of natural resources, particularly with respect to water. But we deplore the actions of the knockers on the Government side who time and time again do everything possible to downgrade water conservation. I may be wrong in what I am about to say but 1 was told by one of my colleagues- 
 J will mention them shortly, i was told by one of my colleagues that  Sir William  Gunn recently made a statement deploring irrigation, saying that it is a waste of money. If my information is incorrect I will rectify that statement. 
This is something that I have been told. 
He tried to stand for the Government side once, but he missed out on pre-selection. 
Have you ever heard the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  say one word about irrigation? 
The honourable member for Wakefield is probably one of the most constructive critics in Parliament with respect to irrigation, and this is, of course, only right. Every person is entitled to hold an opinion. The Opposition believes in water conservation. In regard to the financial aspects of this Bill, when the legislation was introduced in 1964 the allocations to the States were determined on the basis of each State's prospective area and population weighted equally. The allocations to each State were: New South Wales 25 per cent; Victoria 15.8 per cent; Queensand 20.9 per cent; Western Australia 23.6 per cent; South Australia 12.4 per cent and Tasmania 2.3 per cent. At that time the South Australian Premier was not particularly happy with the allocation for his State. 
An  i have already said this Bill concerns the measurement of water. The Opposition is in complete support of the objective and concept of this Bill. The Opposition notes with interest that in respect to the funds for the measurement of water resources the grants to the States are now to be included in the overall national water resources development programme. This amount will come out of the $50m over the next 3 years which was promised at the last election. I would like to make one observation about the schedules to the Bill. If I were a South Australian, for example, I would not be very happy with the amount of money that has been allocated to South Australia. It is well known that South Australia has a deficiency in surface water. This means that there has to be a tremendous speeding up of efforts to find water in that State. I think the Commonwealth's contribution to South Australia is pretty poor. 
Or PATTERSON - At the present time water is the most important resource in which South Australia is deficient. With those comments in mind the Opposition supports the Bill. The Opposition is also of the very firm opinion that this programme should continue for many years. From memory I understand that the period will be increased from 10 years to 12 years. It is pretty clear that this programme should nol stop after 12 years; it should be a continuing process. It is essential that Australia continues to spend money in the field of research into water development and that the research should be followed up by a constructive water development and water conservation scheme, particularly in the proven and established areas of Australia. 
As I have said before, my area of northern Queensland contains over half of Australia's water resources. Yet, this area is one of the most undeveloped in terms of water resources. Everyone would agree that there is tremendous scope for water conservation in this part of Australia. If we consider the amount of water that is contained in the Burdekin and Fitzroy Basins, for example, in conjunction with the amount of land in these areas we can see the tremendous potential which exists. 
This area is also favourably located, lt is close to the coast, it has an infrastructure of towns and transport facilities and it has an inbuilt population. This area is crying out desperately for large scale water conservation. It is as certain as that night will follow day that we will have serious droughts in Australia. The areas most susceptible to drought in Australia in terms of incidence are the coastal areas and the western areas of the north and the western areas of Queensland in particular. In terms of the loss in value of production the area worst hit cumulatively is the eastern coast of Queensland. 
The value of the losses from drought alone in the intensive agricultural areas and the intensive cattle country of eastern Queensland can be illustrated when we consider that within a radius of ISO miles from Rockhampton - and this is only a half circle - there are more cattle than in the Northern Territory and Western Australia put together. This will give the House an idea of the intensity of beef cattle production in this area. As I said before, this area is plagued by drought. We recognise that there is not much that anyone can do about providing large scale water conservation projects in semi-arid and arid areas of Australia. In these areas the farmer or the grazier must do what he can in terms of fodder conservation and in terms of small scale water conservation and harnessing underground water, be it sub-artesian or artesian. However, certainly more research should be carried out by the Government at this time in areas where official investigations have shown a high susceptibility to drought. I refer here particularly to the eastern coastline of Queensland. This is the area in which the research which is being endorsed by the Government in the legislation now before us is needed. 
The eastern coastline of Queensland is an area which contains a tremendous volume of water. The supply of this water is reasonably reliable although not as reliable as that of the Snowy Mountains area. In conjunction with the other resources in eastern Queensland, one can conclude by saying that water is the key in the short and long term developoment of this area. It does not matter whether we talk about steel works, major chemical works, the expansion of agriculture or the large scale processing of minerals; there is one thing that we must have plenty of, and that is water. If Queensland had had a large scale water conservation and power scheme some years ago the aluminium smelter would not have been lost to the south. This is one of the problems and one of the penalties that Queensland has had to endure because of a lack of large scale water and power scheme. 
The Opposition supports the concept and the objectives of the Bill now before us. The Australian Labor Party sincerely hopes that the programme will not cut out and that the rate of spending will not be reduced. This is the type of research and legislation which this country needs in a continually increasing way. 
There can be no doubt that the Australian Wool Commission Bill is the most impor tant legislation regarding the Australian wool industry that has ever been introduced into the Parliament. At the outset I would like to make it quite clear that the Opposition will not oppose the Bill. I would also like to say, however, that the Opposition deplores the practice of the Government in introducing the Bill at 8 o'clock last night and expecting us to debate it in full now. Considering the great importance of the wool industry and this legislation I think it is deplorable that the Government cannot handle its business in a better way. All honourable members have the right to study in some detail the proposals put forward in this legislation. 
I have made my point clear, that this Parliament should not rise until this legislation is finished. That does not mean we should debate it in a matter of hours. Approximately 5 years ago the price reserve scheme, which was passed by this Government's Cabinet, was thrown out by the wool growers. As I have said many times in this House, I believe that this was a tragedy for the wool growers. I believe also that at that time many growers were confused when they voted. Who will ever forget  Sir William  Gunn stomping the countryside putting forward the case, and the great propaganda machine of the newspapers speaking out against the scheme, with the result that the growers became more and more confused? As a result of their votes in the ballot the scheme was not accepted. I have always said that this was a tragedy for the wool industry. 
The Government's record over the last 20 years towards this great industry can only be described as deplorable. The wool industry, without a shadow of a doubt, is the most efficient export industry Australia has had since it was settled by white men. Over the years, particularly in the last 5 years, we have seen the financial conditions of wool production have deteriorated. In the last few months, as the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  correctly described the situation, we have seen a national disaster in the industry. The Government should recognise that it should accept some criticism with respect to the wool industry. Experts in the marketing system and people who have examined the industry' over the years have made constructive criticism of the archaic nature of the industry. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has said that there is no evidence of collusion. Many people like  Sir John  Crawford - he has addressed our committees - say that there is collusion. Who does the Minister think he is fooling when he says there is no collusion? Does he think that the Japanese are being foolish? Does he think they are going to bid vigorously against each other in a spirit of pure competition? Of course there is collusion. The overall number of buyers is seriously declining. The effects of collusion can be seen on the market. Whether it is open collusion or secret collusion, it exists. What we should take into account is that, if the Minister for Primary Industry is correct that there is no collusion, this is a very serious business for the wool industry. Why have prices dropped to such a disastrous level if there is no collusion? It must mean that the wool industry has reached a crisis in terms of the world price of wool. We say that there is collusion and that one of the principal reasons for the introduction of this Bill is to allow the Government or the Commission to become a willing buyer to the degree which will keep every other buyer honest. This is the objective. Whether it will be achieved will depend only on what happens. But one thing is certain: If there is no collusion and if the forces of supply and demand have caused the price of wool to drop to the level that it has reached today, then the Government had better start to make very serious moves with respect to the future of this industry. 
Until a few months ago - until this year - when the finances of the wool industry started to deteriorate seriously, nothing was being done to stabilise prices except talk, and to the great credit of the wool growers of Australia, they took the matter into their own hands. Meeting after meeting of growers throughout Australia criticised the Government's apathy in this field, and meeting after meeting unanimously moved for the establishment of a single statutory marketing authority - a strong buyer which would speak on behalf of the wool growers of Australia and which would sell on behalf of the wool growers of Australia. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has risen in this House time and time again and put the case for the establishment of a single marketing authority. I and most peoples - certainly the growers - were under the impression that the establishment of a single statutory marketing authority meant that a single marketing authority would acquire, buy and sell wool. The Government, through the Minister, has made it clear that this never was intended by the special Advisory Committee or by the Australian Wool Board. It was never stated otherwise before the last few weeks. 
But be that as it may, the Australian Labor Party's policy on this matter has been made clear on many occasions. It believes that as with wheat, there should be a single statutory marketing authority to purchase and to sell wool on behalf of the wool grower. Of course, this would mean over time - and I stress over time - virtually the end of the middle man or the wool broker. 
Yes. Let me deal now with this legislation. There can be no doubt that this legislation has been rushed. I do not want to be too unkind, but I would say that it is one of the worst pieces of legislation that I have seen in the Parliament, so far as trying to understand it is concerned. 
We will question the Minister about this matter later and we will see what his mind is like. I refer to the meaning and interpretation of the Bill; to the difference between what the Minister says in his second reading speech and what the Bill says; and to what has been left out of the Bill and what has been put in the second reading speech. Some of it is unintelligible. But one thing is certain - the Bill protects the broker to the hilt, and the broker is the one who gains the most out of this legislation. He will have no more worries because his sales are completely safe. The Commission is helping the sale of his wool because it is a willing buyer to buy wool at the reserve price. One question I will ask now - we will move amendments about it later on - refers to brokerage itself. Nowhere in the Bill is it explained under what conditions will the Commission purchase wool at the reserve price. We would assume that the owner of the wool, that is the wool grower, will pay a commission to the broker, and that the Australian Wool Commission will pay delivery charges. Then when the Commission re-offers this same wool for sale, through the brokers again, there will be another round of commission and another round of delivery charges. There will be 2 lots of commission and 2 lots of delivery charges for the same bale of wool. This contention may be wrong, but I make this point as an illustration. There is nothing in the Bill to show the terms of purchase and sale by the Commission as regards brokerage. 
Let me deal with the Commission itself. No mention is made of the qualifications of the members of the Commission. There is no mention of whether the  Chairman  or a member of the Commission can be the Managing Director of Dalgety Australia Ltd or of Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd. Apparently it means that the Government considers it is possible to appoint some of the brokers to this Commission. In fact, one of the brokers could be the  Chairman  of this Commission. Is this the Government's objective? There is no mention of this limitation in the Bill. There is no mention of the required qualifications of the members of the Commission. The only reference is to the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry will appoint the members. 
The Minister might be able to tell me about this matter. In his second reading speech he said that the Minister for Primary Industry will appoint the  Chairman  of the Commission in consultation with the Wool Board. I cannot find any reference to that undertaking in the Bill. It says that in regard to the appointment of the other members of the Commission, the Minister will consult with the Wool Board or with the wool growers on the Australian Wool Industry Conference. But I cannot see any reference in the Bill to the Minister consulting with the Wool Board on the appointment of the 

 Chairman of the Commission. One of the amendments which the Opposition will move is in respect of the qualifications of the members of the Commission. We believe that the  Chairman  of the Commission should be as independent as possible, because when I deal with the reserve price scheme I will indicate that I fail to see how we can have a virtually secret reserve price scheme when some of the members of the Commission could - I say 'could' in fairness - be leading wool buyers or leading brokers. 
I should also like to ask what the Minister means when he says that he will consult' before he makes a decision on who will be appointed to the Commission. It is said that he will consult with the AWIC and that he will consult with the Wool Board. 1 should like to know just what is meant by the word 'consult'. In other words, has the Wool Board any power of nomination in this matter, or does it just mean that the Minister will go and have a bit of a talk with the members of the Wool Board and that perhaps he will take their nominations into account? Or does it mean that the Wool Board or the AWIC will have the right to nominate these people? 
Knowing the calibre of the answers which we receive, I am quite certain that we will hear nothing of a constructive nature. Turning to the functions and powers of the Commission, there are some outstanding weaknesses here. Most of the functions and powers are just unworkable under present law - this is the advice I have received, anyhow - regarding the present laws of the land. Even if this Bill is passed, complementary State legislation will be required. The Minister says that he has the unanimous support of, I think, the Australian Agricultural Council. But this is quite different from having the support of the State governments in regard to interference with the standards of wool selling methods in the States. I should like to deal with this matter from the point of view of private buying. I ask the Minister: Is it legal for the Commission to demand from private buyers and sellers information of which he approves? In other words, what right has this Commission to go into a State and to say to a private buyer or seller: 'We want all the information about your income, the price at which you have sold wool and the costs involved'? I submit that the Government and the Commission have absolutely no right whatsoever to do this - certainly not under this Bill. 
Turning to clause 18 (b) and (c) dealing with the formulation of standards and making of arrangements and the formulation of terms and conditions, again it is quite obvious that Stale legislation will be required before the Commission can move at all on these points. Now let me deal with the crux of the reserve price scheme, and I hope that somebody in this Parliament will get up and tell us how this scheme will work. In its present form, no-one can decipher how the Wool Commission will be expected to formulate and operate these so-called secret day to day or more frequent reserve prices. I assume that from the wording of the Bill that the price fixation can be more frequent than day to day. If an error is made by a computer or by whoever is responsible for formulating the reserve price surely the error must be rectified straight away and not be left until the following day. So I assume that the words in the Bill mean 'at any point of time'. 
What I want to know is this: Who will set the reserve price? Will it be the Commission? Will it be some members of its staff? Who is to be responsible for the reserve price? Another thing I want to know - and the lack of information on this is a serious deficiency in the Bill - is this: Is this reserve price to be a secret? Will the Commission be able to go on to the auction floor and make one bid? Or will the Commission be able to remain silent and surreptitiously take in wool when the reserve price is not reached? ls the Minister so naive to believe that a reserve price can be kept secret? I admit that there is nothing in this Bill to say that a reserve price will be secret but on the other hand there is nothing in the Bill to say that it should be made public. If some of- 
I am criticising this Bill as wool growers and wool buyers and wool brokers will do. 
I refer specifically to clause 7 which deals with appointments to the Australian Wool Commission. The point I make here is that when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  answered my query he said that all members, including the  Chairman  would be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry. Why is' that not in the Bill? That is my specific point. The Minister cannot have it both ways. He cannot say that reference to the appointment of the  Chairman  should not be included in the Bill, because reference is made in the Bill to the appointment of every other member of the Commission. The Bill provides that the appointment of the 2 members to represent Australian wool growers, the member to represent the Commonwealth and the 3 other members of the Commission will be made after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference or the Australian Wool Board. I refer the Minister specifically to his second reading speech in which he said: 
The  Chairman  would be appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Australian Wool Board. 
I think he must agree that as he referred to this matter in his second reading speech and as the Bill provides for the appointment of the other members of the Commission after consultation with the AWIC or the Wool Board, to be consistent, reference should be made in the Bill to the appointment of the  Chairman  of the Commission after consultation. That was the point I was making. I accept the Minister's assurance that the  Chairman  will be appointed after consultation with the Wool Board, but as the Minister says this in his second reading speech and as reference is made in the Bill to the appointment of the other members of the Commission after consultation with the AWIC or the Wool Board, to be consistent, I think that reference to the appointment of the  Chairman  after consultation with the Wool Board should be included in the Bill. That is the first point regarding the appointment of the  Chairman  and members of the Commission. 
Great play was made particularly by members of the Australian Country Party of the need to appoint to the Commission men of the best calibre, I cannot help but refer to the almost parrot-like remarks made by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt).  He always makes the remark that members of the Australian Labor Party are not wool growers or wheat growers- or something else. It is a very strange thing. On this type of illogical reasoning the honourable member for Hume would not even entertain appointing to the Commission a man like  Sir John  Crawford or the members of the Advisory Committee. He would say: They are not wool growers so what would they know about the wool industry?' This is the type of illogical nonsense that we hear from the honourable member for Hume every time he gets up and opens his mouth. But as nobody in the Parliament takes him seriously, it does not really matter what he says. Of course, the honourable member would criticise a man like  Sir John  Crawford if he were offered part-time or full-time chairmanship of the Commission. He would say: 'What would he know about wool?' This is the kind of illogical nonsense we hear from the honourable member. I have made my main point. Perhaps it is not important but at the same time there is an inconsistency in the Bill regarding the appointment of the  Chairman  and the members of the Commission. To be consistent, perhaps the Minister might consider writing into the Bill the provision regarding the appointment of the  Chairman.  I may have missed it, but I could not find any reference to the appointment of the  Chairman  of the Commission after consultation with the Australian Wool . Board. There has to be consistency. 
The other point I make refers to the appointment of the 2 members to represent Australian wool growers. There is a strong argument for the appointment of more members to represent wool growers, but a lot will depend on the 2 members who are picked. This will be the key factor. It does not matter whether two, three or four members are appointed to represent wool growers. A lol will depend on whom the Minister picks, in consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference, because there is a very strange mixture of people on this Conference. As I have said in this chamber time and time again, it is not a democratically elected body representing the bona fide woolgrowers of Australia. As I see it, the key question is: Who will be the 2 members to represent the wool growers? 
Again I refer to the honourable member for Hume who must violently object to the appointment of the 3 other members of the Commission. After all, they will have more say than the 2 wool growers. Apart from the 2 members to represent the wool growers, there will be one member experienced in finance and economics - he would know a lot about wool; one experienced in the processing of wool - he is not a wool grower either: and one experienced in the marketing of wool. I wonder whether the honourable member for Hume will get. up and criticise those members because they are not wool growers. The point is that there will be a balance on the Commission. But, as I say, the key is: Who will be the 2 members to represent the wool growers? We will all be watching the outcome with great interest. It could be said that these 2 people will really be responsible to the wool growers of Australia and will have to report back to them. These 2 people will hold very responsible positions. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1.) omit 'Commission', insert Minister'. 
There are two reasons why I have moved this amendment. The first reason is quite obvious. Surely the  deputy  of the Commonwealth member on the Commission will be appointed by the Minister. As one who has been in the civil service this seems to me to be fundamental. Secondly, I believe that it is good policy for the Minister to have control over the appointment of a deputy; otherwise a member appointed by the Minister could, subject to the approval of the Commission, appoint anyone as his  deputy.  I am not saying that a member would appoint anybody who is irresponsible, but the point is that in order to tighten up the Bill the Minister should he given control over the members and deputies. If the Commonwealth representative is a member of the Commonwealth 
Public Service the only person who could possibly appoint a deputy would be the Minister. 
by leave -I move: 
In sub-clause (1.) after 'member', first occurring, insert 'or his deputy'. 
After sub-clause (1.) insert the folowing subclause: (1a.) If a member or his deputy has direct managerial or policy-making responsibility in any wool broking or wool-buying firm in Australia or elsewhere the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member or his deputy from office'. 
In sub-clause (2.) omit  otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other membersof, an incorporated company consisting of not less than 23 persons'. 
We believe the provisions of clause 16 should apply equally to the  deputy  as well as to the member. The logic of that follows on from the various clauses and sub-clauses in the Bill. The reason for the insertion of the new clause was touched on in my previous speech. I believe and the Opposition believes that members of the Commission, particularly the  Chairman,  should be independent because if the wool position deteriorates further a lot of blame will be put on the Commission and the bone will be pointed at certain people. For that reason, if the  Chairman  is a man who is directly concerned with managerial or policy making responsibility of a major wool broking or buying firm it is certain that the woolgrowers and others will tend to put the blame on him, just as a lot of woolgrowers and people have put the blame on wool buyers and brokers today. These people have been accused of collusion and all sorts of things. 
For argument's sake, let us take the case of  Mr Vines  who is respected in the international field and in Australia in terms of organisation and ability. I think I am right in saying that  Mr Vines  is the  Chairman  of Directors of Dalgety-New Zealand Loan 
Ltd. He is also a director of the P &amp; O Line which is a firm, within the terms of this Bill, with which the Commission would be negotiating - I think I am right - in respect to freights. I am not in any way casting aspersions. I am only quoting an example. We have a man who has a proven reputation in the field of marketing but who nevertheless is of vital importance with respect to the policy making and managerial decisions of a broking firm. After all, brokers and buyers are not always thought of as the friends of the wool grower. In fact, their whole policy is the reverse. Therefore, I believe and the Opposition believes that it would not be in the best interests of the Commission to have members - particularly a  chairman  - who are very closely associated with a board of directors, or act as  chairman  of directors, with policy making responsibilities of wool brokers or wool buyers in Australia or overseas. 
In regard to sub-clause (2.), 1 do not think there should be any qualifications at all with respect to contracts where a member is directly or indirectly interested in a contract made or proposed to be made by the Commission. If any member is interested in a contract other than as a wool grower putting wool in for sale, in accordance with the provisions of the Bill, 1 believe that that member should declare himself. There should be no qualification about it. If he happens to be a member of a firm, institution or corporation having over 25 members, I do not think that has anything to do with the position whatsoever. Any member of the Wool Commission who has a serious wool contract should have to declare his position straight away. He should be above suspicion and that is the reason why we have moved that amendment. 1 have given the 3 reasons behind the proposed amendments and I do not think there is any need for me to say any more about them. 
Clause 18 is extremely important because it deals with the functions of the Commission. It outlines the powers or the objectives of what the Commission has in mind. Again, one could speak at tremendous length on this subject. I do not intend to do that because most of the questions that I did ask were answered. However, 1 would draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to something at which I believe he ought to look. He will not accept an amendment, I would think, but he ought to look at this matter because to me some inconsistency is observable. 
In his second reading speech the Minister deals with wool that is taken in from other than auction. He says: 
In the latter case, the Commission would pay the grower  a  price equivalent to its most recent reserve price for the particular type of wool or such higher price as the Commission may determine. 
Nowhere in the Bill is this stated. It applies, 1 assume, to clause 18 (g) in relation to the sale of this wool. That would be the price. That is what the Minister means in bis second reading speech. But the thing is mixed up. Confusion arises because some of this wool goes into a voluntary pool and here there will be advanced, in the Minister's own words, probably about 60 per cent. So, I would suggest that the Minister have a good look at this matter because I believe that there could be - and is - some confusion here. I ask this particularly because the Minister spells this out in his second reading speech but it is not stated in any way in the Bill. 
This matter is pretty important too. This is the buying of wool by the Commission outside the auction system. This is an arrangement, I would assume, with the broker or with the buyer. It does not go through the auction. The buyer will ask the broker or the Minister: 'Well, that is all right; but what price am 1 going to get for it? That is what I want to know, lt is not in the Act', lt is no good saying that this is the same as the price averaging plan. It is not. 1 would suggest that the Minister have a good look at this matter because I believe that it should be put in somewhere in the Bill. It is pretty important. A fair amount of this wool could be about in drought areas particularly. It is not going to hit the auction floor, lt will come around through the back door and the grower has to take it on some type of trust, we might say. I do not think he should have to take it on trust. This point is important enough to be included in the Bill. I do not want to refer to other matters at this stage. Private buying is dealt with in this clause and it is a subject on its own. I have mentioned the main point 1 had in mind in respect to this clause. Most of my other questions have been answered by the Minister. 
I return to the point I raised about the price. The main point that I was making was on the confusion about the definition of advances' as it applies to the price averaging plan and as it applies to the voluntary pool and the other situation in which the wool is taken from the producer or the broker before it actually goes to auction. The answer given in the second reading speech is that a price equivalent to the most recent reserve price will be paid. I would like to have seen that in the Bill. But I assume that, as the Minister has explained it carefully in his second reading speech, that could be taken for all practical purposes, as if it were in the Bill. 
This clause deals with the reserve price scheme. The first point to which 1 wish to draw the Minister's attention- 
The Minister for Primary Industry did not comment on the second amendment. It is an important amendment because it could mean that, if the Commission was not selling at the best possible price and the losses were underwritten by the Government all the time, this is the clause under which losses could be made. Big stocks could be taken over and disposed at what price? That is why I put in as a safeguard the words 'at the best possible price'. I assume this is what the Commission would do. Would it obtain the best possible price? Will there be some type of arrangement whereby it would offer it at the reserve price on that day, or will it offer the wool at the best possible price? 
I move: 
Tn sub-clause (1.). omit 'an approved bank or from another lender', insert 'the Reserve Bank'. 
The purpose of this amendment is quite clear. We believe that the loans should be negotiated through the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank principally because the rate of interest then could be specifically negotiated between the Government and the Reserve Bank. Another lender* referred to in this clause is not defined in any way. It could be other than an approved bank. It could be a pastoral firm or an overseas firm. It is not defined. Naturally the Opposition wishes that the procedure be consistent with that which obtains, in the case of, say, wheat, and that it be financed through the Reserve Bank of Australia. Under such circumstances, the Government would then have complete negotiative power with respect to the rate of interest. After all, this clause has to be read with clause 3 which states that the Commonwealth will guarantee the repayment of amounts borrowed and the payment of interest. In other words, the Commonwealth Government underwrites, if necessary, every loan at the rate of interest negotiated with an approved bank or some other lender. In other words, the taxpayer underwrites it. The position should be consistent with that of other primary industries. We believe that it ought to be financed through the Reserve Bank at a negotiable rate of interest. 
No, it is not in the Bill. It is implied, but I think it is sufficiently important to have such provision in the legislation. After all, if a grower's wool is taken over by the Commission he wants to know when he will be paid. This is important. Ii he is selling a lot of wool and it does not reach the reserve price and is taken over, what is the position? What does the Commission do? Does it make its own rules? I think provision should be included in the Bill to meet this situation. 
The third amendment is important because when the Commission purchases wool it has to re-offer that wool for sale, but there is no indication to the broker or to the taxpayer what the price will be. Obviously a specific price cannot be stated. We can assume that the Commission will try to get the best possible price but if it is a bit lax and has big stocks of wool on hand there is the temptation to get rid of it quickly and sell it at a low price perhaps at some private sale. This could materially affect the demand for wool traded at other sales at that time. This is the reasoning behind the amendments. There is inconsistency between what the Minister said in his second reading speech and what is contained in the Bill; there is the question of paying for the wool within a certain time and there is need for the Commission to indicate the price. Earlier I asked the Minister a question which he did not answer so I shall ask it again because it is fundamental. I do not know whether the Country Party can answer this, but I want to know the answer. Is this a secret reserve price or is it not? This is important. 
It is no good saying h is because I have some doubts whether it is. If it is a secret reserve price, can it be kept secret? If anything is secret there should be some penalty for divulging it. Is this again in the realms of being secret one day and not secret the next? It was stated, after the Crawford report, that the reserve price would be a secret report and not a report posted up. It is important to know the answer to this question because if it is a secret reserve price I can see complications arising. 
'lt can do that, can it? 
The Commission shall not perform its functions so as to give preference to 1 State or any part thereof over another State or any part thereof or otherwise inconsistently with the Constitution. 
So the Commission has to try and operate evenly throughout Australia. 
 Mr Speaker,  the Opposition supports the Bill. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  referred to the need to make certain that compositions or schemes of arrangement entered into under State or Territory legislation will not be ruled invalid becauseof the present laws. The Attorney-General said his inquiries had indicated that under present laws it is unlikely that arrangements made between farmers and their creditors under State legislation would be in accordance with Part X of the Bankruptcy Act. I would assume that the principal reason for introducing this measure is because of the serious and deteriorating economic conditions in the rural areas of Australia. It would seem that if the States or Territories are going to implement legislation in respect of debt adjustment, there are some problems regarding the validity of assistance given to a farmer by a State or Territory. Because of that it would appear that the States themselves are reluctant to go ahead with their own schemes until the Federal laws have been changed. As I see it, that is the principal reason why the Government has decided to introduce this Bill. Something has to be done in the field of debt adjustment in the States. The staggering increase in rural debts in Australia has reached such a serious level that it is very clear that urgent Federal action, in addition to this Bill, will have to be taken to stop the collapse of rural areas and country towns throughout Australia. This is particularly so in the wheat and sheep areas which have been subjected to devastating drought over the last 3 or 4 years. 
The debt figures in Australia are rather staggering. In fact, they are almost unbelievable. When I first had a look at them I could not believe them; I thought there must have been a misprint in them. In the last 5 years the indebtedness of the rural sector has increased by more than 500 per cent. It is necessary, of course, to give the figures because 500 per cent may not mean much when one looks at the absolute figures. Net rural debts have risen from a relatively low figure of$1 20m 5 years ago to more than $ 1,250m today. If anybody doubts the seriousness of the debt structure in the rural areas, I think those figures speak for themselves. They are net figures. As the Attorney-General said in his second reading speech, the effects of the drought are particularly severe in some States, and it is those conditions, associated with the indebtedness, that has prompted the Slates to introduce as quickly as possible accelerated rates of debt adjustment. 
Among the primary industries, only the sugar and beef industries are not in serious trouble at this time. With deteriorating world prices and shrinking market outlets, the financial position of even those 2 industries is in some doubt. The major export industries of wool, wheat and dairy products are in very serious financial trouble, and another 2 major industries - beef and sugar - which today look reasonably sound, have ahead of them futures that could be somewhat bleak in relation to the European Common Market and the high powered political tactics on the American scene with respect to meat. 
It is obvious, therefore, that in association with this Bill progressive and dynamic farm reconstruction and debt adjustment policies have to be adopted. They should be translated into immediate action. In many areas it is probably too late to help many of the farmers. I refer particularly to the wheat and sheep areas which have been affected by drought, because there the debt liability has reached saturation point or, we might say, bankruptcy point. The granting of further loans, irrespective of the interest rate, will only place these people further into debt. They have passed the point of no return in many areas in Australia today. Some private banks have emphasised this point in their reports from time to time. 
I think that the Federal Government should take urgent action in this field. It could perhaps set up, in conjunction with the rural construction boards of the States, a Federal rural commission. Such a commission could work in co-operation with the State reconstruction boards. There would be 2 objectives of such a commission. They would be complementary and supplementary. The first objective would be reconstruction or rehabilitation and the second, debt adjustment. Both these things would work together. To me it is obvious that some sort of Federal commission will have to be set up in conjunction with the State authorities if the financial position of the farmers deteriorates any further, as we think it will. 1 have already referred to the increase in the net debt structure. In the last 5 years it has increased from $120m to $1 .250m. In gross terms the figure is over $2.000m. This level of debt illustrates the very serious position which faces the rural industries today. Progressive rehabilitation of farms with the emphasis on increased productivity as distinct from increased production, the amalgamation of farm enterprise and the streamlining of marketing techniques are all matters which should be given urgent consideration by this Government. As the debt position in the rural sector is growing so fast, the most urgent priority is to introduce a financial measure for debt alleviation. This action is more urgent than any reconstruction or rehabilitation schemes. I believe that the priorities in the field of reconstruction or debt adjustment should be ranked accordingly. That is, the top priority must be given to the objectives of this Bill or the provisions contained in it for debt adjustment. This would have to be followed by long term rehabilitation measures. It is clear to me that there should be Federal or State complementary action. 
In addition to providing loans to farmers or wiping out their debts there will have to be some provision for the immediate freezing of the principal and interest repayments on loans. This would mean that the farmers who are in very serious trouble would at least have enough cash in their hands with which to continue paying their immediate debts. They would at least have some amount of money in hands without having to worry about the repayment of the principal and interest until the reconstruction scheme became more positive. It also appears clear to me that in any Federa] commission set up in conjunction with State reconstruction boards the whole basis of financing primary industry will have to be gone into again. lt must be obvious to the Government that the primary producers cannot afford to pay high interest rates on loans obtained under short-term conditions. Although some arrangements are made through the Commonwealth Development Bank and the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank, in the main the great majority of the debts in the rural sector are with pastoral houses or trading banks. As far as agricultural areas are concerned a considerable amount of all the debts are with hire purchase companies. One has only to look at the rate of increase - and this is an important thing - in debt structure to see the seriousness of the situation. It is not just some gentle trend. The increase is staggering. One can only wonder just how much longer this debt structure can continue, lt is estimated that less than 10 per cent of farmers in Australia are free from debt. All evidence suggests that the small traditional farmer today is falling deeper into debt. It is imperative that this Bill be passed without delay so that the States may go ahead and bring in whatever legislation is necessary to ensure that the operation of compositions or schemes of arrangement entered into by the States or a Territory will be valid under the Bankruptcy Act. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
Has the statement dealing with emergency finance for the wool industry been taken off the list? 
No, this is a different matter. It is the ministerial statement on wool industry assistance and deals with emergency grants. Unless I am wrong, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  gave me an undertaking that this would be debated in the House. 
I could be wrong about this matter. 
 Mr Speaker-- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.41 a.m. (Friday) 

 - Mr Speaker, on 5th March of last year, almost 12 months ago, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  presented the Mapping Surveys Bill 1970 and delivered his second reading speech. Today, almost 12 months later, the second reading debate on that Bill is to take place. This gives an indication of the way in which this Government works. So apparently it takes 12 months to bring on for debate a Bill which is of technical importance to Australia in that it makes provision for the mapping of Australia's resources. 
The principal purpose of this Bill is to empower the Minister for National Development to authorise certain action which will accelerate and facilitate the mapping of Australia's resources. The mapping is done primarily by the Department of National Development through its Division of National Mapping which, I might say, is a Division thought of very highly by the State departments as well as by the other Commonwealth departments which are concerned with the mapping of resources. 
This Bill makes provision for the rights of officers employed by the Department of National Development to enter on to properties, to place survey marks, geodetic pegs or whatever it might be, in relation to survey work. Up to the present time, some doubt has always existed as to the right of a Commonwealth officer to go on to private property in the Commonwealth to carry out his work. What this Bill does is to ensure that officers of the Commonwealth, when carrying out their mapping surveys and ancillary works, will not be molested in any way and in fact will be empowered to go on to properties to carry out this work. 
The Bill also provides for compensation to landholders in respect of any damage which may be done in the course of such surveys. Provision is made in the Bill for landholders to object to unlawful damage to properties. The Bill sets out this provision quite explicitly. As I said before, one of the functions of the Department of National Development is the mapping of Australian resources. Very little is heard about the Division of National Mapping, which might be called a non-policy making body. It has a job to do purely in a technical field, whether it be taking aerial photographs or making land surveys. I would like to pay a tribute to the officers who constitute this Division because, as anybody who has worked in the technical field knows, the maps that the Division prepares and arranges are invaluable in projects concerned with the development of Australia. 
Projects which have been passed by this Parliament I believe have not paid sufficient attention to the work of the Division of National Mapping. These maps are important, for example, in the construction of beef roads. The whole basis of the beef roads scheme is not so much the construction of the roads but the purpose or the objective of the roads. The purpose is to develop Australia's cattle resources by using the roads for the transport of cattle, which is to the net benefit of the nation. During the compilation of the case for beef roads a great deal of use was made of maps, particularly aerial maps, compiled by the Division of National Mapping in the Department of National Development. These aerial maps showed the classification of the country. Perhaps the best example of legislation that has gone through this Parliament being dependent upon the use of aerial maps showing the classification of country is the legislation relating to the brigalow areas 1, 2 and 3. Something like 10 million acres of this land were classified by aerial maps, and where any problems arose ground traverses were made to check them. 
It has often puzzled and amazed farmers and graziers that one can sit down with a stereoscope and classify land more accurately than can someone who has traversed the ground on foot. In the brigalow area something like 103 land classes alone were classified from the air just by looking through the stereoscope, using aerial maps and then, if any problems arose, for example if there were areas of whipstick brigalow or burnt-out brigalow, going into the area to check. This is one of the practical uses of aerial maps in the development of Australia. Very rarely are these maps wrong. The aerial photographs are particularly accurate. 
It is pleasing to see also that the Bureau of Mineral Resources extensively uses maps prepared by the Division of National Mapping. Almost every survey party in northern Australia, for that matter all of Australia, has been concerned with areas for which the Bureau of Mineral Resources carries the aerial maps or relevant maps. Anybody who has worked or travelled extensively in northern Australia - in the remote areas of Cape York Peninsula, Arnhem Land or the Kimberleys - knows full well the great value of aerial maps to him. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is at the table, has I know travelled in these areas, and I am sure that he for one has used these aerial maps not only to know where he has been going but also to know the type of country that was in close proximity to him. The Land Research Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is one of the greatest users in the Commonwealth of these maps. The land classifications of northern Australia in particular have been carried out with these maps. They could not have been carried out without the maps. Whether we are concerned with soils, botany, hydrology or whatever it might be, we must have access to accurate maps. When we speak about maps we mean principally aerial maps, from which one can read the type of land class as well as the natural resources to be found there. 
I note from the Minister's second reading speech that the Government is carrying out a 10-year accelerated programme in the mapping field. This will be welcomed, because the aerial maps for a lot of areas of Australia are out of date. Many of them were compiled during World War II. In fact, it was not until, I think, 1968 that for the first time in Australia's history this continent of almost 3 million square miles was covered by a uniform series of maps. The Minister has informed us of this in his second reading speech. Only 3 years ago we had for the first time at least a uniform set of maps, and now we are refining these maps in more detail, particularly with respect to levels on the ground. The Department of National Development is also procuring sophisticated equipment, and this is to be commended. To give an example of this equipment, as quoted by the Minister in his second reading speech, special air survey cameras will, from a height of 25,000 feet, give a photograph of an area of 140 square miles. As I have said before, we cannot get anything more accurate than a photograph. Distances of up to 200 miles are measured with electronic equipment. 
It is quite obvious that the Opposition supports the Bill. It is one of those Bills which always are welcomed in the Parliament because they provide for technical advance. I want to say something about an area in which I believe there is need for more intensive mapping, and that is the off-shore area, particularly the Great Barrier Reef. The Great Barrier Reef is one of the most complex systems of natural resources in the world. The myriads of islands, rocks and reefs which are covered at high tide but exposed at low tide make the job of mapping the area for the purpose of accurate delineation of, say territorial and international waters, which is of extreme importance to Australia, a very difficult one. The solution which I put to the Parliament is that, first of all, we have to map these areas more accurately. Almost every month there are international incidents in these waters. 
We need not map them for the purposes of showing the limitations of territorial water: and the high seas if we lay claim to the rights of the Barrier Reef waters on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia, which in effect would be on behalf of the Australian people. As I said before, a Federal Labor Government, in accordance with its policy, would assert ownership of the waters of the Great Barrier Reef and would, if necessary, fight in the International Court of Justice to retain those waters if its actions were challenged. There is plenty of precedent to back such a move, in the opinion of learned international lawyers, not only in Australia but also overseas. The uncertainties under current interpretations of international Jaw relating to the ownership of the seas lying adjacent to the territorial seas which surround the islands, reefs and cays, whether they be submerged or not submerged at high tide, are clearly unsatisfactory to Queensland and to the Commonwealth. There is a need to map these areas more accurately. 
I believe that the mapping of these resources should have been carried out a long time ago. They should have been given a greater priority in the past. But of course one has to look at resources in terms of priorities, and it has been the decision of the Government to concentrate not so much on off-shore areas as areas on-shore If we had full control of these waters, not only would we benefit from mapping, in not having to do so much work, but all foreign vessels that traversed Great Barrier Reef waters, the high seas, would in fact be completely under the control of Australia. One can imagine, for example, what would happen if the Barrier Reef waters lay adjacent to Russia, China, Japan or the United States. There would be no argument then as to who owned the resources lying adjacent to those countries and therefore Australia should not hesitate to claim what most people believe is rightly ours. There is a need, however, to carry out more concentrated work on this complex natural resource and for the Division of National Mapping to work in close consultation wilh the Commonwealth authorities concerned with geological and hydrological research as well as the university and other authorities concerned with the same sciences and marine biology. This is one practical field where the Division of National Mapping can greatly assist in furthering the research carried out in this country. 
The Opposition supports the Bill and, as I said before, it does so in the belief that this accelerated mapping programme will not be cut down in this squeeze which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has indicated but not proven as far as the Parliament is concerned, because here is a public service which is of vital importance to the productivity of this country. As I have said before, it is of great use to many of the productive Commonwealth departments in terms of development. These include the Bureau of Mineral Resources, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Land Research Division, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Northern Division of the Department of National Development and the State departments of agriculture, which are all using these aerial maps and other maps extensively in their work in land classification. The great irrigation schemes that are at present proceeding in Australia or are in the development stage, such a. the Ord River, the Nogoa scheme, the Bundaberg irrigation scheme and those in New South Wales and Victoria, have all been backed by maps compiled by the Commonwealth authorities and the Department of National Development. Of course, the more remote the area is the more valuable the map is because that is all one really has to go on. If one has not the superficial experience of the person who works the soil or knows the country all one goes on are the maps themselves. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
The principal objective of the speech of the Minister of National Development  (Mr Swartz)  today is to inform the House of the relaxation of the selective embargo on the export of uranium oxide. There will be no quantitative restrictions placed on exports, at least in the near future. In September last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made a rather dramatic statement in this House in which he guaranteed on behalf of the Commonwealth Government that the rich Nabarlek uranium deposits would not fall into foreign hands. There is little doubt that two of the reasons behind his statement were the great richness of the deposits and the commercial fact that these deposits allowed for a. considerable increase in export income. There is little doubt that these reasons were behind the Cabinet's decision because there is no question that in world terms the vastness of the Nabarlek deposits is a national asset to Australia. However, the Prime Minister's statement must have been an embarrassment to the Minister because, as honourable members will recall, only a matter of hours prior to the Prime Minister's statement being made, the Minister released his statement giving the Government's official forecast on the export of minerals for the next 10 years. The figure he gave was something like $3.400m. There was no mention of uranium. 
It is clear, therefore, that there has been a change in policy on this matter. Since 1967 there has been this selective embargo which the Opposition has supported. The selective embargo was applied on the assumption that the total reserves of uranium oxide in Australia, were only approximately 20,000 tons. Since that date we have had further excellent discoveries - again in relative world terms - and estimates at Westmoreland near the Northern Territory border, at Valhalla north of Mount Isa and in South Australia. This rather large and latest find of Nabarlek shows reserves which are estimated to be at least 55,000 tons of very high grade uranium oxide yielding 540 lb to the short ton. This is certainly significantly higher in grade than that produced from the Mary Kathleen mines. The Minister has informed me that it goes up to a maxium of 1,400 lb per short ton. This, of course, shows not only the value of it but also the relatively low cost of producing it in terms of world figures.In many countries the cost of mining uranium oxide is around$5 per short ton. In Nabarlek the estimate is being put at less than $1 per short ton and possibly very much less than 50c per short ton. This gives one an idea of the tremendous value of this reserve to Australia and it is imperative, of course, that it remains in Australian hands and under Australian control at all times. 
The total supply in Australia now is such that Australia must be recognised as a major source of uranium oxide. It has something like 10 per cent of the world's known or estimated reserves. Australia is in a position definitely to influence the price as well as the supply and demand of uranium oxide. However, there is one feature of the Ministers statement in which I am disappointed and that is that it. is too sketchy. This is a very important subject. Although in qualitative terms he has mentioned the need to 'closely watch' the position of exports and to carry on with appropriate safeguards. I believe the Parliament is entitled to know in more detail the Government's policy with respect to mines and the reserves of uranium oxide and particularly its policy in regard to Queensland Mines, a subject which is in the news from day to day, and the uranium reserve at Nabarlek in the Northern Terrritory. I do not know whether the Minister has deliberately not clone this but at some future date he should inform the House in more detail of the Government's policy and attitude towards uranium deposits in Australia, the ownership of those deposits and these safeguards on export levels which he states he will watch closely, particularly with regardto importing countries. Safeguards are mandatory but it is a question of how we define safeguards. For example, to what countries does the Government believe the uranium should be sold? 
Let us look at the present position. There are countries which by reason of their industrial capacity and industrial energy will need uranium oxide. Japan is an outstanding example. In recent months Japan has announced to the world that by 1985 40 per cent of the total electricity generated in Japan will be by nuclear energy. Of course, this means that Japan, which has no real coal reserves will have to rely on atomic energy. Japan is one country with which this Government must foster not only uranium markets but also reciprocal trade agreements. In regard to the United KingdomI do not think there is any argument, but there is some doubt about the United States and for what it uses its uranium oxide. We want to know these points and hear the Government's policy and attitude towards uranium exports. On reading policy statements which are put out from time to time there does not seem to be any clear cut policy, particularly in relation to mineral exports of strategic importance such as uranium. 
We also want to know the Government's attitude and beliefs about the price of uranium. Will the price of uranium rise or fall? This is what worries me. If there are to be no quantitative restrictions on the export of uranium it could cause a reduction in price. If this is so Australia with its great Nabarlek reserves and their low cost of production could be in the box seat. We may bc pressured by other countries who have a high cost of production as compared with th.it  at  Nabarlek. We want to know also whether the Government has done any work on the demand for uranium-, lt is expected that the demand will increase in future. This is commonsense but it is to be hoped it will increase for peaceful rather than military purposes. The European Nuclear Energy Agency and the international Atomic Energy Agency have both predicted a steady increase in the demand for uranium which could in 10 years time slow clown because apparently there are tremendous innovations in the development of fast breeding reactors which I am told use only approximately half the fuel or energy requirements .of conventional reactors operating at the present lime. 
I state these points because although the Opposition supports the policy as enuciated by the Minister for National Development, we want to be given more detail of what the Government is thinking and what its attitudes and policies are in this field. This type of policy is the same as the policy we listened to on Tueday night when the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  spoke about inflation. We want to be given more detail, not just a sketchy few words about a decision of the Cabinet. This is important because it involves not only the Opposition and the people of Australia but also a lot of- developers who spend a great deal of money on development. They also want to know what the Government is thinking in this field. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has attempted to tell the House that wage increases in Australia have been the real cause of inflation. He mentions, as the one positive action that should be taken, a restraint on wages. There was no mention, of course, of a restraint on big business which, on the very accounts which the Minister mentioned, is showing a gross national product increase of 40 per cent for the last 5 years. Big business, which is protected by outrageously high tariffs and is able to increase prices at will, makes record profits. That is the sector on which economic restraint should be applied today. The Government should strengthen the Trade Practices Act and try to encourage more competition in Australia. The Government speaks of productivity, but what we need is competition in big business. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  by his own actions and by Cabinet action, unquestionably has given the impression to the Australian people that the Australian economy is critical and vulnerable to the possibilities of galloping inflation and a consequent collapse of the nation's economic stability. The Federal Treasury has warned the Government of the consequences to the economy if the current rate of overspending continues in certain sectors of the economy. The Institute of Applied Economic Research, after intensive investigation, has found that the problem of inflation has moved now into the social and moral field. It says that the whole community is responsible for what now threatens and that the whole community will be affected by the disastrous effects both of accelerating inflation and of the policies needed to control it if it persists. 
The rate of increase on consumer prices and wholesale prices in Australia is at a level which, if sustained or increased, will have a crippling effect on important productive sectors of the Australian economy. If one examines the economic indicators which are used to measure inflation, it can be seen that wholesale and consumer prices have shown a dramatic increase, running at present at anything from 6 per cent to 8 per cent. The disposition of the gross national product shows the weaknesses of certain sectors. The level of the monetary supply itself, and the velocity of that supply, indicate a serious position. The productivity factors - productivity per mim hour, including agriculture and excluding agriculture - all point to one thing, namely, an increase in overspending and an increase in inflationary pressures. All the economic indicators available point to a serious position unless the brakes are put on the economy. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service spoke about wage increases, but wage increases are a consequence and not a cause. Economic theory would explain inflation in this way: An increase in spending in the Government and private sectors creates an accelerated business investment which, in turn, creates an excessive demand and together, when an excessive demand is measured in relation to productivity, if demand is rising at a greater rate than productivity, they create an inflationary force. When there is an increase in profits and an increase in prices there is a consequential increase in wages and at that point the cumulative forces of inflation are in full swing. Every person in Australia, except those who are making a lot of money out of inflation, is fed up entirely with this cruel, vicious and evil tax which is undermining the economy and forcing misery on those people who cannot fight inflation - the pensioners, those of fixed incomes and the export farmers. The whole stability of the nation is at stake. I have mentioned the farce that is our Trade Practices Act. Amendments should be introduced to provide the Trade Practices Act with real teeth so that it can engender competition in the economy. 
I deal now with one sector of the economy which is of special interest to me. I am concerned with farm costs, particularly as applying in the export sector. I have not time during this debate to mention all of them but I will mention some farm costs over which the producer has no control to illustrate how insidious cost increases are eroding the financial position of Australian exporters. Official figures are available from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics relating to farm costs during the last 10 years. I cannot mention them all but will cite some as examples of the situation. The cost of insurance on farms has increased by 37 per cent in the last 10 years. The producer has no control over such costs. Farm rents have increased by 23 per cent. Rates and taxes - and I ask honourable members to listen to this - have increased by an average of 57 per cent in the last 10 years and interest costs on farms by 28 per cent. These are not my figures but the official figures of the Department of Primary Industry determined by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. During the same period the average prices received by farmers for farm commodities have shown no increase. Many commodity prices for primary products have decreased. Does anyone want any more proof of the seriousness of inflation in the farm sector? The net farm income has shown a decline in real terms in the last 5 years. The gross national product of the interests which the Ministers represent - big business - has shown an increase of 40 per cent or 8 per cent per annum in the last 5 years. These are the villains which have to be tackled. This is why honourable members on this side of the House have stressed that there is a need to change the Constitution and to give this Parliament the right to intervene and control the basic commodities of this country such as steel, aluminium, oil, petrol and chemicals. If we can control those prime movers we can get a degree of stability. Honourable members on this side of the House and every Australian who is being hurt believe that there has to be some restraint and control on basic commodities. 
Unless the Government has the political courage to stop and control the forces of galloping inflation which are taking charge of this nation the export sector of the rural economy will be engulfed in bankruptcy. That is not an overstatement. One has only to read the report on reconstruction by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to realise the hard facts of that statement. According to the Reserve Bank, rural debts in Australia are now running at the rate of $1,9 80m per annum although 5 years ago they were $150m per annum, lt is a scandalous situation for this debt to increase from $150m to $l,980m over 5 years. The Government's fiscal and monetary policies have now been proved a monumental failure. Rather than put a brake on the rate at which costs are rising the Government's policies, as listed in the last Budget, are now accelerating costs in Australia. Wool, which is Australia's major export earner, is in a desperate financial position. This position is worse now than during the great depression 40 years ago. At least there was a future for wool during the great depression because we knew that there would be a demand for wool at reasonable prices once world stability was restored. But under present conditions in Australia economic strangulation is completely crippling Australia's No. I industry. This is a tragedy for Australia. 
No export primary producer - not even the beef industry which possesses a sound future or the highly organised and deliberately controlled sugar industry - can withstand the onslaught of the uncontrolled wage-cost spiral if it continues at its present rate. There are certain regions in Australia where the export sector is highly vulnerable. I refer to regions in Tasmania where 90 per cent of income from the apple and pear industry is dependent on exports. These are highly vulnerable areas. The fruit canning areas in northern Victoria are also highly vulnerable because their economic dependency is on the export sector. It is in these previously viable areas that we now see the commencement of poverty, worry and misery. In the dairying industry we now see widespread and intensifying poverty. Poverty is increasing to the degree where many dairy farmers are forced to work their families under conditions of almost slave labour. Children are being dented the opportunities of a decent education. As a result the dead hand of poverty takes a wider grip. Even the established mineral industry is now starting to feel the squeeze of these inflationary forces. Already investment plans of some mineral companies are being slashed. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended, I was explaining by example some of the plights of some of the rural industries in Australia as a result of the inflationary forces which are crippling those industries. I said that unless the Government has the courage to stop and to control the forces of galloping inflation which are taking charge of the nation the export sector will be engulfed in widespread bankruptcy. Inflationary forces coupled with stagnating wool prices have crippled the wool industry. No export primary industry, whether it be the beef producing industry which has a reasonably sound future or the highly organised and deliberately controlled sugar industry can withstand the onslaught of the uncontrollable wage-cost spiral. 1 said that the tragedy of inflation is being shown vividly in the dairy industry. Poverty is increasing to the degree that many dairy farmers are being forced to work their families under conditions of slave labour and children are being denied the opportunities of decent education. As a consequence, the effects of the dead hand of poverty are widening. 
The Federal Government has the power to stop and to control the cumulative wage price spiral. Inflation or gross over spending is a cruel and vicious tax on people whose incomes are fixed or are determined by export market prices. Instead of adopting strong measures to put a brake on overspending and speculation and to implement action to control the prices of key commodities in Australia, the Prime Minister acts like some swashbuckling cavalier in this field. In the last Budget we saw not deflationary policies but inflationary factors with respect to certain prices of commodities which have been responsible for increases in the cost price spiral. 
Australia is now mortgaged to the hilt. Dividends to foreign owners are now running at approximately $800m per year. The severe deficit of international trading each year has to be met by the inflow of foreign capital which is progressively buying or exploiting Australia's natural resources. Private and public spending is increasing at the rate of 10 per cent per annum whereas the level of Australian production is increasing by 6 per cent per annum. This excess spending must generate inflationary forces to the degree that total demand is significantly greater than pro ductivity capacity. As a result of this excess spending in the private and the public sectors, prices have increased. This has resulted in a substantial rise in profits, particularly in the big business sector heavily protected by tariffs. As a con.sequence of these factors, wage increases and the self generating cumulative forces of inflation have gathered momentum at an alarming rate. 
To put the position bluntly, no longer can primary producers tolerate the fools paradise into which they have been allowed to drift. Government policies have failed, and they have failed badly. The Government consistently has refused to inform farmers as to the facts about the serious future of our export rural industries as a result of changed international marketing arrangements. Look at the present position in the wheat industry with respect to China and the policy in relation to wheat sales to the Arab States, (licenceeived subsidies, pious hopes, non-existent export markets and desperate ad hoc decisions have resulted in a collapse in the viability of Australian agriculture. In desperation, the Government tries to blame the Australian Labor Party. But the cold facts are that the Liberal Party-Country Party Government has been in power in this country for 21 years. The economy is crumbling. The financial mess in which rural Australia finds itself today is the entire responsibility of the Liberal PartyCountry Party Government - and no-one else. 
If the Prime Minister continues on this reckless cavalier course, export primary producers throughout Australia will be correct in ranking him as one of the most infamous Prime Ministers. On the other hand, big business, such as steel, chemicals, oil and the joint foreign companies, which now are controlling much of the economy of Australia, will be fully entitled to rank him as one of Australia's best Prime Ministers. 
The Opposition supports the motion. 1 am given to understand that this is the first of these colleges in the Commonwealth of Australia. In such circumstances the Opposition wholeheartedly gives its support to the principles and benefits involved in this proposal. There is certainly a need for this type of institution, especially in the Northern Territory and I hope that Western Australia and Queensland in particular also follow the pattern that has been set in the Northern Territory. The pleasing part of this proposal, or the principles underlying it, is that Aboriginal students will be given the opportunity to do post-primary and secondary education in various disciplines. This is something which 1 believe has been sadly lacking in Australia up to the present time. There has been a tendency throughout Australia to let Aboriginal children go to school up to primary level and almost invariably as soon as the age requirements are fulfilled those children leave school and before very long there is a downward trend in terms of their assimilation in the community as far as jobs are concerned rather than an upward trend at least to a level with white children. This institution is something which is badly needed in Australia and I hope it will give the lead to other parts of Australia, particularly Queensland and Western Australia. 
The basic purpose of the Sugar Agreement Bill 1970, as was stated by the former Minister for Primary Industry in his second reading speech, is to obtain the approval of Parliament to an agreement made between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments to regulate the production and marketing of sugar within the Commonwealth for a period of 5 years from 1st July 1969. The Minister said that was the basic purpose of the Bill. This Bill was introduced into Parliament on 4th March 1970. The way in which this Bill has been handled is a classic example of poor government because this is an important piece of legislation. For example it sets the maximum wholesale prices for refined and other sugar in Australia. The Bill contains a very important clause with respect to the embargo on imports of sugar and sugar products into Australia, lt prohibits the importation of sugar, golden syrup and treacle. There are important provisions in the Bill relating to the export sugar rebate on the one hand and to the domestic sugar rebate on the other hand. In other words, there are vital issues involved in this Bill. Last Tuesday I criticised the Government because of the 12 months delay in dealing with the Mapping Surveys Bill 1970. I wonder what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who  I  understand is to follow me in this debate will say about this because he is vitally concerned about issues affecting the fruit industry which are contained in this Bill. I. have placed a question on this matter on the notice paper, but the principal reason why the Opposition has not raised this matter is because it supports the Bill. However, a principle is involved. When an important Bill such as this is introduced into the Parliament surely it should not take 12 months to bring it on for debate. 
I would like to ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who is at the fable, a question. What constitutional right does the Government have to continue to place an embargo on sugar without the agreement of the Parliament? Certainly the Schedule to the Bill deals with the fixation of a maximum wholesale price as between the Commonwealth and the States. There is a measure of doubt about this, but I understand that under the Constitution it is quite correct for the Commonwealth to enter into agreements with the States without ratification by the Parliament. I do not agree with that procedure, but the legal advice I have is that it is correct. The placing of the embargo is quite a different proposition. I hasten to add that the Opposition supports the Bill, but we are concerned about the principle involved. Tt should not take the Commonwealth Government 12 months to bring on a Bill for debate after its introduction. 
The scope of the Bill is limited. I would like to discuss today subjects such as the International Sugar Agreement, the possibility of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, the present situation of quotas under the International Sugar Agreement and the recent decisions of the International Sugar Council. However, I am given to understand that these matters are outside the scope of the Bill and may be referred to only in passing. The crux of the Bill is the price of sugar in Australia today. If farm costs in Australia continue to rise as a result of the increasing pressure of inflationary forces, a significant increase in the price of sugar under the domestic sugar agreement will be fully justified. I have not said that just for the sake of making a statement. It is based on facts and supporting evidence. The evidence is that since 1960, under the terms of the agreement made between the Commonwealth and Queensland, the price of refined sugar in Australia has been increased only once - on 19th June 1967. The increase in the price of refined sugar was $26 a ton or a little over 1 cent pel lb. That is one increase in 1 1 years. 
It cannot properly be said that the sugar industry has been receiving favourable treatment through increases in prices. The best evidence available to me from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is that during the same period of 1 1 years the costs on cane farms as determined by the prices paid for the commodities and services used have increased on average by 26 per cent. On the one hand there has been one increase in the price of sugar; on the other hand there has been an increase of 26 per cent in costs. Someone may ask: What about the export market?' The domestic market consumes only about onethird of our total sugar production. In the same 1 1-year period average sugar prices including all markets have increased by only 7 per cent up to the end of 1970. It is another classic example of the cost-price squeeze. Costs have risen by 26 per cent while the price of sugar has increased by only 7 per cent. 
How is the deficiency to be made up unless excess demand or inflation takes control? The answer is obvious - by increased productivity. To some degree the sugar industry has increased productivity, but as it is deliberately controlled in terms of production - it is the best model in Australia for a study of the primary industries in respect of controlled production in relation to realistic domestic and overseas demand - certain sections, particularly the small producers. are vulnerable to increased costs. Although there is unquestionably a case for an increase in the price of sugar based simply on the economics of the industry itself in terms of net income or, if it is preferred, in terms of cost increases which are sweeping through the industry, the matter is not as simple as that. 
I remind honourable members of the experience of the wool industry in which on the one hand there is the devil of inflation causing increased costs, and on the other hand there is the devil of stagnation or a decline in world prices due to a large degree to the march of synthetics. Any increase in the price of sugar in Australia must be given very careful consideration because synthetic or artificial sweet.ners are always just around the corner. The substitutes can take a greater share of the market, particularly for industrial use by breweries and such places. So it is not just a simple question of looking at costs and incomes and preparing a case. It is necessary to analyse the effect on demand of increasing prices when, substitutes are available. - - 
In some countries cyclamatic acids have been banned as a health hazard. Investigations are proceeding in Australia to determine whether a similar step should be taken here. Certainly under present conditions substitutes for sugar are available. How have the cane farms been able to stand up to increasing costs? Farms with large peaks - that is with regard to the total amount of sugar a farm can produce within the relevant Acts - have been able to offset cost increases to some degree through increased mechanisation and efficiency and increased output as a result of the last expansion. Increased output caused a drop in the average cost curve on the larger farms. Of course, that drop has now been more than compensated for by increased costs. 
Farms with very small peaks - of from 1,000 tons to 1,500' tons- are highly vulnerable because creeping inflation is causing an increase in costs. They cannot produce above that peak except at risk, so that unless the price of sugar is increased the vicious scissor movement will be aggravated and the profit margin will be progressively reduced. We have been talking about inflation at some length this week. If it continues at Rs .present rate, lt will be necessary to implement changes in the Qld sugar industry, providing substantially higher average prices are not received. 
Seven years ago when peaks were being formulated as a result of the expansion of the industry they were fixed on the basic assumption that the cane farmers would be able to earn sufficient income to give them a reasonable living. How often have we heard that type of policy expounded, not only in Australia but overseas as well. I have in mind, for example, schemes for soldier settlement and general closer settlement. Over a number of years many people involved in such schemes, in terms of technology, have become almost peasant farmers. Although this objective was an admirable one, inflation has wrecked it. Today the small farmers are in serious trouble, lt is unjust and inequitable to allow bona fide farmers and their families with small peaks to be crucified by savage inflationary forces  to  the extent that the only alternative facing them will be to sell their farms, irrespective of how efficient they might be. In many cases they are highly efficient when it comes to the yield of sugar per acre and the cost of production per acre, but their net cash income is simply insufficient to give them a livable income to support their families and to provide a sufficient reserve with which to replace their capital equipment. 
Every effort should be made to find an equitable method by which these small peaks can be increased or, alternatively, priority should be given to them when there is an opportunity for No. 2 pool sugar or when there is a chance of harvesting sugar above the aggregate peaks. Although this might mean that a very big farm, say, with' a peak of 5,000 tons, may not receive the same percentage increase of excessive sugar when harvesting as a small farm might receive, in absolute terms this would be a good thing for the industry as a whole. I believe that, and so do a lot of other people. With the exception of the small producer, the sugar industry is currently in a better position to withstand the forces of inflation than any other major primary industry, because of the policy of deliberately controlled production, backed at every move by government decree. It has often been called a socialised industry. It does not matter what it is called. The fact is that in this type of production, where production is related strictly to market demand, there are no surplus producers of sugar. Consequently, this type of system is such that the sugar industry is not as vulnerable as other industries are to inflationary forces. 
If inflation starts to gallop then nothing will save this industry, like others also, and the small producers certainly will be the first to feel the force. The unprotected beef industry, despite its sound future, is wide open to heavy cost increases. All other major rural industries are plagued by disastrously low prices and over production. I stress that point because I have said many times in this House and outside it that other primary industries should take a good look at the organisation and structure of the sugar industry in terms of controlled production in relation to market demand. There are several aspects, which are not so important, with respect to marketing with which I disagree and which I think can be improved. But the basic principles underlying the production and marketing of sugar are sound and they should be followed by other industries, particularly the cash crop industries in Australia. It has been proved true time and time again that there has been financial trouble in the sugar industry only when there has been a relaxation of the strict correlation between production and demand, such as when the International Sugar Agreement collapsed. Then we found that the world price of sugar dropped to as low as Stg 1 2 per lon. Once the balance of world, production and demand was brought into being again we found fundamental rationality in the industry. 
At the present time in most sections of industry, with the exception of small growers, there is a level of prosperity which is not available to most primary industries in Australia. As I. mentioned, many of these costs are outside the control of primary producers.  1  will mention just one .which has an effect. The average cost increases of rates and taxes' over the  11  year period have been 55 per cent on Queensland farms. This is the type of cost over which the producer has absolutely no control. Similarly we can take the increase in interest costs and associated costs like that. This is where primary industry is highlyvulnerable, particularly on the export market. I want to make one further point which is aimed at the critics who say that the sugar industry in Australia is being subsidised because we have an import embargo. I will deal with that at some length because I think it is time that this myth was exploded. 
First of all, let us look at a comparison of the price of sugar in Australia with prices in the principal sugar consuming countries overseas. If the industry is subsidised we would expect our sugar to be sold at a significantly higher price than it is in other countries. The average retail price of sugar in Australia is 9.98c per lb. In Denmark, it is 12.34c per lb. In Finland it is 12.9c per lb. To Italy, a major consumer, it is 15c per lb. In Japan, another major consumer, it is 14. 3c per lb. In the Netherlands, a major consumer, it is 1 3c per lb. In the United States of America, one of the biggest consumers in the world, it is lie per lb. The only major consuming country with a price below Australia's is the United Kingdom, where the retail price is 7.84c per lb. To that we must add a significant deficiency payment. In other words, the industry has a high degree of consumer subsidy. If that is added we get a price far in excess of the Australian price for sugar. That is the first thing that has to be sheeted home to the critics, because the price paid by consumers of sugar in Australia is not high. In fact, in relative terms, it is low. 
The favourite argument of those who criticise the sugar industry is that the world price of sugar, at the height of the sugar trade depression a few years ago, was only Stg12 a ton. At the present time it is about Stg50 a lon. They say that we should not be producing sugar; we should be importing sugar. The same thing is said about motor cars, chemicals and every other conceivable product protected by a tariff or a subsidy. That laissez-faire argument went out with Adam Smith. Any country that operates on that type of economy is doomed to a very serious depression with great frequency. What we have to explain is the structure of the sugar industry. First of all there is the home market taking about 670,000 tons. It is a stable domestic market. I have illustrated before that the price to the consumer in Australia is not high. The Commonwealth Sugar Agreement gives Australia a guaranteed price up to a quantity of about 335,000 tons or a little more. Under the United States Act we have a guaranteed price for about 190,000 tons. Then the rest of it - over 1 million tons - is sold on the free market. 
Our present quota, with the 110 per cent of basic export tonnages plus shortfalls, is about 1.25 million ions. The important point to remember is that although the world price of sugar is below the raw sugar price in most countries of the world - this is what many economists do not appreciate - this is a residual market. It is not a free world market, as in the case of wool. The amount of sugar sold on the free world market is about 6 million tons out of a total world production of about 60 million tons. A small proportion of that 6 million tons also comes under special agreements. If Australia discontinued its production of sugar the world price of sugar would increase significantly. A fallacy which has to be exploded is the suggestion that Australia is a high cost country in the production of sugar. It is not. In the production of sugar it has one of the lowest costs of production because of its tremendous efficiency through mechanisation and productivity. This is an area in which we must give full credit to the industry and to those people who have played their part in the industry over the long period that it has been in operation. 
The elasticity of sugar prices in relation to supply on the free market is such that if the export of sugar from Australia were reduced we would sec a substantial increase in the world face price of sugar. The industry has been shown to be tremendously volatile. To give honourable members some idea of the elasticity of prices, in the 1.8th century, for which statistics are available, the minimum price was Stg90 per ton. That was a tremendous variation. In the 19th century the minimum price was Stg10 and the maximum price Stg98. But in the 20th century the minimum price has been Stg4 and the maximum price Stg140 per ton. That tremendous variation has been brought about by the supply and price elasticities. This is one reason why we must have stability for sugar on the home market and why there must be controlled production and a fair price. We cannot afford to have a situation in which we have sudden large increases or decreases in the world price of sugar, such as we saw with the collapse of the International Sugar Agreement. 
It is no answer to say that we should import sugar at the world free price because that price is not a world market price in any sense; it is a residual price which can fluctuate, as we have seen in the last 10 years, from Stg12 to Stg140. What sort of economy would we have if we embarked on this course, with this stop-go business of having a sugar industry one minute but not the next. 1 must point out that there have been times when the world price of sugar has been greatly in excess of the home consumption price in Australia and there has not been an increase in the domestic price to compensate for the loss being sustained by sugar producers. In those circumstances the producers could easily have adopted the same attitude as their critics and said: Australia will have no sugar this year; we will export the lot.' This would have resulted in a tremendous increase in the price of sugar in Australia. 
It is absolutely necessary to understand the structure of the production and marketing of sugar in Australia and overseas, particularly with reference to the residual market. When this is not understood we find these critics who suggest that we should import all our sugar and close down the industry in Australia. We have enough criticism of that kind in Australia today. Anyone who studies the residual market can understand why this kind of philosophy with regard to the market price simply is not applicable to an industry which is completely bound up with bilateral agreements between specific countries and an international sugar agreement which controls and regulates the production of sugar in relation to demand. I suggest to critics of the industry that they should take a good look at the structure of sugar production, and marketing in relation to the residual free price. They will then see quite clearly that there is no case for a cut down of sugar production in Australia. 
Stability has been the keynote of the sugar industry and it is essential that we continue to maintain stability. I have mentioned briefly cost of production and efficiency in the industry. Australia leads the world in terms of physical efficiency such as the amount of sugar per acre which it produces. That is one of the main criteria of efficiency. When one takes into account the yield and quality or ces. of our cane production, despite the very high domestic prices of commodities and labour, Australia still has one of the lowest costs of production of sugar. If the Australian cane farmer could buy chemicals, fertilisers and spare parts at the import parity price, instead of having to pay costs which are greatly inflated by tariffs, his cost of producing sugar would be extraordinarily low on world standards. Similarly if the wool producer did not have to pay high costs for his materials and services he would not be in the parlous position that he is in today. All these points must be sheeted home to the critics of primary industry. However today I am concerned particularly with the sugar industry. Every day I hear the comment chat we should cut down sugar production, that we should wipe out the sugar industry and import sugar. That is absolute nonsense. People who make these suggestions do not understand the structure of sugar production and marketing in relation to the residual free market. 
Those are the main points that I had proposed to mention. I would have liked to deal with the very important question of what might happen to the production of sugar in Queensland and New South Wales in the event of Britain joining the European Economic Community. 
The honourable member is more optimistic than I am. A British delegation which was in Australia only a matter of weeks ago visited north Queensland. There its members made the statement that Britain would look after Queensland's interest in sugar by drawing up separate agreements. I shall say no more about that, but I have found no evidence to support a statement of that kind. Members of the delegation were regarded as heroes in the north for saying that, but I have been unable to find any evidence in Canberra, overseas or anywhere else to support their contention. My discussions with  Mr Rippon  when he was in Australia left no doubt in my mind that if Britain joined the Common Market we would be looking for other markets for our sugar. Of course, there would be a phasing out period. If Britain joins the Common Market there should be no reason why, until, say, 1978 when we would be phased out of that market, we cannot overcome the problems of the industry. I would have liked to refer also to quotas. Our quota at present is 110 per cent of the basic export tonnages, but this is misleading because the price could come down within a matter of months, just as it went up very quickly. It is necessary to be cautious.I do not have time to mention other matters. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Now that a decision has been taken that the International Grains Arrangement will not include a schedule of prices for the export of wheat, is there not a danger that this could lead to a significant decrease in world wheat prices if competition breaks out between the surplus producing countries of Canada, the United States of America and Australia? In this context, is it a fact that the United Arab Republic has refused to continue its contract with Australia to take relatively large quantities of wheat on the assumption that world wheat prices might fall? 
 I want to refer tonight to a matter which concerns me and, I am certain, a lot of people in Australia. It is the subject of drugs about which we have heard so much in this Parliament in recent days and almost every day in the national Press, including the country newspapers. In recent days we have had almost a fanatical approach by the Government to marihuana and other drugs of limited significance in Australia. What I am concerned about is the Government's great concern about marihuana, LSD and cannabis, drugs which have had, up to the present, limited significance in Australia, but which, because of this tremendous publicity which they are receiving in the Australian Press and this 
Parliament and through statements of people in all walks of life, are becoming so prominent that people are asking 'What are these things?' 
The youth and children of Australia, with their naturally curious minds, are starting to question what drugs are all about. It is like a banned book. If there is one way to make a book a best seller it is by talking about it and banning it. This promotes its sales. I am worried about the constant discussion of these drugs, it is by good-meaning people, including Ministers and others, because what they are really doing is promoting them in the minds of children. I am concerned not so much with the Government's approach to marihuana and similar drugs but its apathy towards two of the worst drugs in Australia - tobacco and alcohol. The Government would be far better advised to tone down its continuous promotion of marihuana in the minds of children and to concentrate its attention on methods nf reducing the alarming incidence of alcohol and tobacco consumption among young people in Australia. I believe that this Liberal dominated Government will rank as one of the most hypocritical governments in this field since Federation. It poses as a government which is most concerned with the health of the nation, yet it consistently refuses to take any notice of and ignores scientific evidence which classifies cigarette smoking on the one hand as a monstrous killer and alcohol on the other hand as a major contributor to road deaths, social tragedies and other problems. 
The Government is actually endorsing the cigarette and alcohol mania by refusing to take any positive action to control the tremendous amount of money which is being spent on the promotion of cigarettes by advertising. Why does not the Government take some action? Why is it concerned so much with drugs of presently limited significance? Why does it not take some action on alcohol and tobacco on which it has some organic evidence? The cold facts are that in the last 5 years the Federal Government has reaped the colossal amount of $2,500m in excise duties from tobacco and alcohol and it follows that the more the Government can promote the consumption of alcohol and tobacco in Australia, the more money it will get and the fatter will be its purse. 
The bill for advertising cigarettes and alcohol on television and radio is colossal. These are the two reasons why this Government, dominated by big business, refuses to take action. Its whole concern in the Parliament seems to be with these limited drugs which it appears to be promoting. If the Government is fair dink uni about the health of Australians it will do something about tobacco and alcohol, lt has leads from America and Britain, and the latest medical reports from Britain show a staggering picture. A shock report from the Royal College of Physicians, which i assume is a responsible body, calls for a complete ban on advertising that promotes cigarettes, cigars and anything allied with those products. This report states that premature deaths and disabling illnesses caused by smoking have now reached epidemic proportions in Britain. More than 20,000 men aged between 35 and 64 years are dying each year from smoking. lt is estimated by the College of Physicians that the three smoking-induced diseases - chronic bronchitis, coronary thrombosis and lung cancer - account for nearly 100,000 premature deaths in Britain every year. These are deaths: not people going for trips somewhere. 
The Australian Government should follow the decision of the Government of the United States of America to ban all cigarette advertising on television and radio. At the same time the American Government is compelling al) tobacco companies to print health warnings on cigarette packs. The Australian Government should be disturbed at the incredible growth of smoking in our primary and secondary schools. The British report indicates that medical men are deeply concerned that at the age of 15, there are just as many girl smokers as boy smokers and that the intake of alcohol has also shown a tremendous increase at this age. According to medical research, babies can be harmed if the addiction is carried on into pregnancy. I find it incredible that the Government can spend day after day attacking marihuana, LSD, cannabis and other drugs and yet say not a word about the most important problems in Australia today in the fields of alcohol and tobacco. 
I will state " my position. If the Minister has the-, courage to introduce a Bill to ban the advertising of cigarettes and alcohol the Australian Labor Party will support it because it is our policy. 
I agree  with the Minister and he knows it. All I am saying is that these are two big issues which should be promoted more and more- in the Parliament. I do not disagree with what the Minister says about marihuana. Do not get me wrong on this; what I am really saying is that we must get things in perspective. What concerns me is the colossal sum that is involved. When one examines the Budget papers and sees that $600m will be earned this year from excise duty on alcohol and tobacco, and realises also that colossal sums are being , reaped by monopolistic television agencies, and radio stations throughout Australia from advertising, one appreciates why the- Government will not take action. All I am saying to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is that we should get .these issues into perspective. 1 am sure that the Minister, whom 1 do not criticise, makes his statements in good faith, but I am concerned about the continuous harping in the national Press about marihuana, LSD and cannabis because this only excites susceptible young children into having a go a' them. Children are freer today than they were years ago. I suggest that if we kept quiet about these drugs and concentrated more on the real problems in Australia today we might do more for the health of the nation. 
I move: 
That a National Water Conservation and Constructing Authority, embracing the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, be established by the Commonwealth to carry out in association with State Governments, the systematic development of soundly based water storage projects in the major river systems serving those established and proven areas which are periodically devastated by recurring droughts. 
In Australia sound planning for the development, utilisation and conservation of natural resources should be a fundamental objective of all political parties. Despite its  21  years of power, the Liberal-Country Party Government has refused to recognise that national investment in natural resources is an essential requirement for the efficient use of those natural resources. Water resources are recognised as one of the nation's most valued assets. Water is the only major physical natural resource which has not fallen under the control in some way or other of foreign ownership. In the field of water conservation the Government has exhibited all the earmarks of a hillbilly administration, preferring apparently to allocate taxpayers funds for water projects on the basis of ad hoc and unco-ordinated decisions heavily influenced by political expedience. There is still no national plan for the progressive development of water resources based on normal and acceptable criteria and priorities. The present method whereby the State governments submit to the Commonwealth their pet water conservation projects, with State priorities often determined in a manner which frequently has no comparative economic evaluation standards to support those priority ratings, is certainly contrary to all accepted principles of the efficient allocation of national funds. 
To illustrate this haphazard approach to development let us take, for example, the 3 major irrigation schemes approved by the Commonwealth in the northern parts of Australia, namely, the Ord, the Nogoa - the Fairbairn project - and Burnett projects. They were approved by the Federal Government in that order. I make it quite clear so that there will be no misconception, that I wholeheartedly support and will continue to support each of those 3 projects. The total cost of the development of those projects will be about $200m. But the point I am making is that each project was considered in isolation by the Government. No attempt was made to compare national investment in the Ord River project with national investment in any other water conservation project. In fact, the history of the Ord River project shows that most of a grant of 5m to Western Australia was allocated to stage 1 of this project. This allocation was not based, even in a remote way, on any economic evaluation of the project. 
If national planning based on sound principles of evaluation had been implemented by the Government, competent resource surveys by Commonwealth authorities would have been available to allow the Government to choose between alternatives in order to secure the best projects accepted within national criteria of net export income and regional development. At the same time a flexible plan of national development could have been formulated which would have allowed efficient planning to proceed in marked constrast to the present inefficient and haphazard methods employed. 
The principle of national planning of water resources and the determination of priorities is well illustrated by the beef roads project. Hundreds of beef roads systems were thoroughly examined and priorities were formulated on the basis of the comparative benefit-cost criterion, and this advice was given to the Government.  I  accept the fact that it was the Government's prerogative then to make its decisions based not only on economics but also on non-economic or qualitative terms. There is no argument about that. But at least the Government had a plan which would give, for the money invested, the best return to the nation. This is not available in water resource development. Certainly, if it is available, nobody seems to know anything about it. The orderly formulation of a national water resources programme requires that evaluation should commence with the measurement of direct benefits and costs but should be supplemented with standard procedures for taking account of secondary benefits and costs. 
The urgent need for a comprehensive national planning approach to multiple purpose water conservation is illustrated in the Government's approach to the development of the Burdekin River basin. Approximately 8 years ago the Queensland Government submitted the Broken River project located in the Burdekin basin as a priority scheme for Commonwealth financial assistance. There was no supporting evidence in terms of economics to justify the priority rating. The Commonwealth has now completed an appraisal of this project, but again in isolation. There has been no attempt to examine the development of the Burdekin basin as a whole within the framework of an overall plan of economic and planned development in order that federal funds will be invested in the most efficient way. The correct approach is for a competent evaluation team to plan the development of water resources in the Burdekin River basin as a whole instead of having a patchwork of unco-ordinated plans. In this way the many project alternatives can be evaluated within the criteria laid down by the Government with the object of the nation reaping the maximum benefit from the funds invested. 
I find it deplorable that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  approves of this slapdash way of developing national resources, particularly in river basins. There are some arguments for the Ord because that was the major scheme in that river basin, but there is no excuse for this piecemeal approach to such rivers as the great Fitzroy, the Burdekin and parts of the Darling. Years ago the United States Government laid down certain principles and these principles underlie the United States Government's action on water conservation. One of these basic principles is that Congress will direct the responsible agencies to submit proposals for water resources development to Congress only in the form of basin programmes which deal with entire basins as units and which take into account all relevant purposes in water and land development. This multi-purpose basin approach should apply to the whole process by which water resources projects move from the survey to the authorisation and appropriation stages. It enables Congress and the people concerned to have a clear picture of the entire development programme and its relationship to the economic and social development of the regions and the nation. That is sound evaluation of development and economic principles. 
At the present time in Queensland the Liberal Minister, for Justice,  Dr Delamothe.  repeatedly promises the people in his electorate that the Broken River project has the highest priority in Northern Queensland and will be supported by the Commonwealth. The people are being led to believe that it is only a matter of time before this project is approved by the Commonwealth. I support the project. I believe it is a good project, but I represent the same area as  Dr Delamothe  and, although I do support this project, just as 1 supported the others, 1 believe this isolated ad hoc approach to the development of the giant Burdekin basin denes every acceptable evaluation principle laid down through sheer experience in the evaluation of basin development. As one trained in development economics I deplore this present patchwork system. 
We have already seen one example of the wastage of Federal funds, with respect to Chowilla. Whether this was a mistake or not is incidental. The fact is that that money up to the present time has been wasted and if proper planning had been implemented it is highly possible that this would not have occurred. It is essential that a national water conservation and constructing authority be established to carry out in association with State Governments the systematic planning and development of soundly based water storage projects in the major river systems with the criteria of justification laid down by the Commonwealth, not the States, because what is involved is national planning and national criteria, and this is quite distinct from regional criteria or regional development. The two great undeveloped basins of the Burdekin and Fitzroy rivers in Queensland and the partially developed MurrayDarling complex in the south are the three priority areas in Australia for large seals and small scale multiple water conservation development on a river basin or national approach. 
The Labor Party believes that the remnants of the once world famous Snowy Mountains Authority should be welded into a national planning and development authority to ensure the efficient use of Federal funds. This authority would work in close conjunction with established and well thought of Federal agencies such as the Bureau of Mineral Resources, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organisation and the technical divisions of the Department of National Development, all agencies skilled in various fields. The overall objective would be to prepare a thoroughly evaluated development plan for the major river basins in the proven and established areas and particularly in those areas devastated by recurring drought. 
The Snowy Mountains Authority has achieved a world renowned reputation in the field of civil engineering with respect to planning, design and construction. It has developed special skills which have been acclaimed throughout the world in the design and construction of water conservation and conveyance works, including large dams, inter-mountain and trans-mountain tunnels, steel pipelines and  aquaducts,  as well as constructing townships. Labor recognises the intense State jealousies over the Snowy Mountains Authority. It appals me to read of and hear State authorities condemning and criticising the work of the Snowy Authority and always saying that they could do the work just as well, if not  better. Every State Commissioner understandably wants to be the king within his own domain. Even in the Commonwealth sphere the Department of Works considers it is just as competent as the Snowy Mountains Authority. If a Federal Labor Government is to be expected to provide large amounts of Federal funds for water resources development throughout Australia the Opposition firmly believes that a national water resources organisation to construct, to co-ordinate, to work in with the State Governments, to have uniform criteria with all the States and local government authorities on a national basis would be in the best interests of Australia. This is not to be interpreted in any way as a move to weaken State authorities. Rather is it the reverse. It would strengthen them because the Commonwealth and States would be working in co-operation in a partnership, 
I find that the shocking decision of the Gorton Government not to allow the Snowy Mountains Authority to carry out any construction works in Australia, not even in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, is a decision which must rank as one of the worst political decisions ever made by any Federal Government since federation. This decision is seen to be even worse when it is realised that this great organisation is able to construct in foreign countries for foreign Governments while it cannot construct within our own nation. If it is possible to salvage the remnants of the Snowy Mountains Authority a Labor Government would rebuild this once proud organisation so that it could be phased gradually into the major long term task of national planning and national construction in the three areas which are considered to have the highest priority from a Federal point of view, that is, the Burdekin and Fitzroy basins - two giant basins - and, of course, the Murray-Darling complex. 
I hope that the Minister when he replies will throw more light on the points I have been making because I make these points seriously. I think we must have national planning for the efficient use of resources. In America it was not until the Tennesee Valley Authority was created that there was any concentrated battery of research facilities for the special purposes of determining the efficient economical potential of  a  whole river basin as distinct from uncoordinated and ad hoc decisions which had prevailed up to that point of time and which is what is happening in Australia. Never before in America was an agency so fully equipped to carry out this efficient fully co-ordinated work. I do not think anybody would argue that the Tennessee Valley Authority and other similar Federal authorities have done a magnificent job, in co-operation with the States, but it has always been on a national basis with uniform national criteria applying. I believe if this approach could be adopted in Australia we would see a national water authority established which would be of tremendous and vital importance to the future planning and welfare of this nation. 
To recapitulate, let me say that the lack of any semblance of a national plan for the continuous development of Australian water resources has cost the Australian taxpayer millions of dollars in inefficient decisions made by this Government. Some honourable members may say that is not true, but nobody can argue that the money that has gone down the drain in the Chowilla project is not a waste of Federal or taxpayers' money. We do not know whether the money spent on the Ord River, on the Nogoa River and on the Burnett River in northern Australia and other projects in New South Wales and Victoria represent the best utilisation of Federal funds in terms of national benefits, because those projects have been treated in isolation. I repeat that I believe they are al) good projects and will prove themselves because I know, as well as the previous Minister for National Development knows, the tremendous opposition engendered throughout Australia against the Ord River scheme, and against all irrigation projects for that matter. Most of this opposition is based on false premises of laissez faire economics. As I have pointed out many times to the critics, if they used the same criteria for secondary industry as they want to use for irrigation I doubt whether we would have one secondary industry in Australia today. Certainly, there would be no steel or motor car industries and no secondary industry of major importance. We would be reduced to a nation producing wool, wheat, beef, grains and sugar to supply local demands. 
This is the type of criteria which cannot be treated in isolation. It has to be treated nationally and that is why I stress that we need a national approach. 1 have concentrated on the northern areas because my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  will speak principally on the MurrumbidgeeMurrayDarling complex. I want to hear from the Minister for National Development what has happened to the Burdekin River assessment because 3 years ago the Federal Government promised a comprehensive reappraisal of the Burdekin River project. The Queensland Premier, acting on advice from the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the previous Minister for National Development  (Mr Fairbairn),  also promised  it.  But, what has happened to it? Surely, when a promise is made to the people by a government that promise should be honoured. There may be some delays, but this has been a 3-year delay. It is no good the Government saying that it is studying maps and other information and trying to integrate the Greenvale area with something else. If it  is done  properly it is done by an evaluation team, skilled in the various disciplines, which -an go into an area, get the cooperation of local and State authorities and do a proper evaluation such as was done on the Ord, the Fairbairn Dam project and the Burnett. This has not yet been done. 
This deliberate discrimination against the Burdekin River scheme is one example of the mounting charges of bias and inefficiency that are being levelled against the Government. The practice of selecting patchwork pieces of a major river basin on some hit and miss criteria without any overall evaluation plan for that entire basin is dangerous economically. This sort of practice in other countries has resulted in wastage of funds. It has caused wastage of funds in Australia and will continue to have that result unless there is some concrete plan for that particular river basin. 1 am not suggesting that we should have a plan for the whole of Australia, but that we should not be looking at a river basin on a hotch potch, unco-ordinated and ad hoc basis. It must be planned properly in the best interests of national development. I have repeatedly suggested that the Broken River project is acceptable. I think that  Dr Delamothe  is right in his objections: This is not the way to develop economically. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded. 
 I move in relation to clause 3: 
That the clause be postponed- as an instruction to the Government: 
To amend the clause to include the Nambucca River in the definition of 'prescribed river'. 
The reasons for this amendment were debated during the second reading stage but to be more specific I refer to the definition of a "prescribed river'. The definition clause names certain rivers. The Opposition wishes to include in this definition of prescribed river' the Nambucca River. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  said that the Nambucca Shire Council did not wish to be included in this scheme. I think he said this was because it would nol be in the best interests of the rate payers. The honourable member for Riverina (Mt Grassby) has quoted a letter from the Nambucca Shire  Clerk  in which it is made quite clear that the Nambucca Shire Council would like to participate in this scheme, lt is obvious that there is superficial evidence of siltation in the Nambucca River. On the other hand it is clear also that if detailed investigations have nol been made they should be made. I ask the Minister whether, if this amendment is defeated, the State Government in the next 5 years will approach the Federal Government if the detailed survey shows there is a case for the inclusion of the Nambucca River in the definition of prescribed river'. 
What concerns me is a basic difference between the approach of the Opposition and the approach of the Government to Federal funds for development. The Minister indicated that the priorities are determined by the States. In other words, if the State does not want to put forward this proposal, irrespective of how good it might be in comparison with others, it therefore cannot be considered. Instead of the States putting forward priorities which can be heavily influenced by politics, I believe that the correct approach of the Federal Government always should be to invest its money in those projects which will give the greatest return, to the nation. That is why I have always stated that instead of waiting for the States to put forward their priorities based on qualitative terms, the correct way to invest Federal funds is for the Commonwealth to play a national role in planning and to put forward Commonwealth priorities based on a national viewpoint rather than a State viewpoint or a regional viewpoint. I hope that we are not to hear mentioned too often again that unless a State puts forward a priority we cannot consider a project which may have a high priority for development. 
I have mentioned several times that, for example, in my State, where there is a great tendency to put forward priorities for water conservation not based on economic considerations but frequently based on the whims of politicians, this is not the way to develop a nation in the best interests of the people. Therefore I hope that serious considerataion will be given to including the Nambucca River in this scheme. We are told that a survey will be carried out. If this amendment is defeated I hope this will not inhibit the Nambucca River being included in the national water resources development programme even though it is not included in this Bill. The Nambucca Shire is desirous of it being included. There is evidence of heavy siltation in the estuary. There is evidence also of periodic floods in that area and there is evidence that flood mitigation work is needed. Those are the precise reasons why the Opposition has moved this amendment. But I again make the qualification that if this amendment is defeated I hope it will not mean that for the next 5 years we will not see any amendments to this programme which will exclude not only the Nambucca River but all other rivers in the eastern part of New South Wales. 
I am pleased to hear the Minister say that the Government will consider any other flood mitigation programme that is put forward by the States. It will consider programmes relating to not only New South Wales or the eastern areas of New South Wales but also the central and western areas of New South Wales, northern New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria. This to me is a constructive move. 
The main point that the Opposition is making has been answered by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in that the Bill makes no specific provision for the inclusion of rivers such as the Nambucca River. The Minister has made it clear that, if the detailed survey which is to be carried out shows that there is a case for its inclusion, if the local authorities want it included, as has been indicated by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  and if the State authorities want it included, the Commonwealth will give serious consideration to its inclusion. Our reason for including it as an amendment was to get from the Government an undertaking that it would be included if there is a case for its inclusion. The Bill contains no specific provision for any further addendum as regards the inclusion of a river such as the Nambucca. The Opposition has no intention of withdrawing the amendment. This is an expression which we wanted included specifically in the debate on this subject. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment: report adopted. 
The Minister said that he Will do this and 1 thank him. This is something which we need to debate from time to time: at least it is something that we should have access to from time to time. Over the years there have been estimates - some accurate and some best estimates - of flood losses in the various east coast river systems.' 1 suppose it depends on how one measures in quantitative language the benefits and costs. However, if we take the crude measurement of benefits and the value of losses and also take into account what could be saved in terms of steady growth if there were no floods and compare that with the costs, I do not think that anyone would argue that this is not a good investment from a national point of view. 
From the figures I have seen, before I was a member of this Parliament and since I have been a member, flood mitigation work in eastern New South Wales has always been considered a sound investment from the national point of view. Of course, economists can argue about what values one places on benefits. For example, let us consider a severe loss in dairy production. Usually the loss to the town in real terms is the current value of the butter lost, the current value of the milk lost or whatever it might be at that point of time. Some economists would argue that one should take the import parity price and the cost of subsidies involved and so forth. On technical grounds perhaps one can justify this. However, on the practical grounds of demonstrating losses to an established community, whether it.be rural or urban, these losses are valued at a common current denominator. The point I am making is that the cumulative losses already sustained over the years far outweigh the costs involved in flood mitigation work. Therefore, in terms of a benefit cost ratio there can be no argument that this is a sound investment. 
I cannot claim to have first hand knowledge of floods in eastern New South Wales. However, I have seen several major floods in this area. During the war years I had the misfortune to be caught in a troop train at Casino for 7 days following a major flood in that area. I point out, however, that this is not the only area in Australia that suffers from severe flooding. 1 would hope that the Government will give serious consideration to extending this work into other areas of Australia that suffer severe flooding. During last weekend in north Queensland I was caught in a flood between 2 rivers. If one can imagine 27 inches of rain falling in 24 hours that will give some idea of the density of rain which fell in the area where I happened to be, unfortunately, last Saturday night, Sunday and Sunday night. I emphasise the force of water and the damage it can do in a matter of hours. A stream can be suddenly transferred from a dry sandy bottom to a raging torrent. It can break its banks and its course can be completely altered if the force of water is strong enough. In this way a great deal of flood mitigation work can be completely wrecked. This has happened with some other rivers. 
There are other areas of Australia besides New South Wales where great damage is being done by flooding. The Fitzroy basin in central Queensland is an area in which there is frequent flooding and considerable damage. The Herbert River in north Queensland is another. A proposal was put forward years ago to divert waters from the Herbert River into the Burdekin River. This would minimise the flow of water and minimise floods in that area. I hope that the Department of National Development is considering these schemes in its long term planning. One can see the types of losses that are suffered in the sugar industry and the dairy industry, for example. Flood can do much damage to the sugar industry in northern . New South Wales. This is despite the fact that sugarcane is one of the toughest and hardiest of all crops. However, severe losses to sugar production result from lodging, loss of ces through harvesting delays and the drowning of the root structure. Losses have been sustained by the dairy industry in New South Wales through the flooding of pastures, loss of livestock and alterations in the lactation period of cows. As a cumulative loss this amounts to a very large sum of money over time. Taken by and large flood mitigation work of the type which is being carried out and supervised by State governments and the local authorities is, in all areas, of tremendous benefit to the regions concerned. Over the years the Hunter River area has suffered tragic losses. 
I hope the honourable member did not think 1 was going to forget. It is very pleasing to see that a,t last the magnitude of the losses have been recognised by the Government. Not only have losses of a rural nature been suffered in this area but also there have been tragic losses in relation to road works, bridging, reservoirs and in the community itself in which many poor 'people have been homeless. All of these are losses to the nation. This is particularly so in respect of the human side. I suppose there is no area in eastern New South Wales which has suffered more from floods, on the human misery side, than the Hunter River area. Many types of work are being carried out in flood mitigation. One of the basic works is to try to keep the channel from the upper reaches  of a river to the estuary deep or straight so that there can be a minimum of water actually ricocheting from the sides of the river and overflowing into levees that have been constructed to facilitate the flow of the river or to enable drainage works to take place if in fact the river does break its banks. There are other measures such as the construction of reservoirs or small or large dams. I understand that a lot of work is being carried out in the form, of river alignment. Work is being conducted to align a river to give a very acceptable flow in terms of cusecs. This is being done by the planting of trees and shrubs. It would seem, certainly in some parts of the Hunter area, that this has been highly successful. 
Areas will be affected whether a flood is small or large. Of course, a large flood will involve more areas and a larger loss of property and perhaps greater loss of life. I would like the Government to give some inkling of what its future ideas on this matter will be. This is what one might call a second stage programme. It must be accepted that although local authorities are able to plan for the worst type of flood, or perhaps the highest flood in their records, it is accepted technology throughout the world that no flood mitigation work is 100 per cent proof. Whatever is done we will always get freak floods or flash floods that will cause havoc to flood mitigation works and which will again break the banks of a river and do damage. 
The Minister has referred to his intention to give the House more information. I ask the Minister to look at some of the work which has been carried out in the United States. 1 refer him particularly to a report to the United States Congress by the Committee on Public Works which deals with river, harbour and beach erosion and flood control projects. This is a document, presented to the Congress, that gives details of the various flood mitigation, beach erosion or harbour trust works in the United States. The report presents analyses as to what has been done with respect to this work, what are the benefits and costs of each project and, later, a progress report is given as to the funds spent. The report also gives comparative benefit-cost analyses in terms of the limited amount of money that is available to be spent. This is something at which I think the Government might look. The document certainly is an interesting one. I am sure that the Parliament would find it most interesting insofar as Australian conditions are concerned. 
I have mentioned previously that the Opposition believes that flood mitigation work - that is, minimising the effect of floods - should really be in the realms of national disaster work. In support of that point of view, I intend later lo move an amendment to the second reading along the lines that this type of programme should be expanded and that it should incorporate other disasters. When a flood occurs, the usual procedure is for the local authority concerned to assess the damage and to make an approach to its State government. The State government then makes an approach to the Federal Government. This takes time. Time and again in this Parliament we have heard impassioned speeches by honourable members on the subject of droughts or floods. Those members have tried to obtain some action quickly. In most cases, we do get some action but often it is a very long time coming. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that a national disaster organisation should be established. That organisation should have at its disposal necessary moneys so that immediately a national disaster occurs it can swing into action without the problem of all of the red tape that is the trouble now. That organisation should be able to make available to local authorities if necessary the money that is needed. Such an organisation in respect of a national disaster, be it a flood, a cyclone, a drought or a tidal wave, would streamline the lines of authority which often become entangled in State and Federal parliamentary structures. 
Civil defence does this in some States. It does in New South Wales. Its powers are most limited in terms of finance; it has manpower. In Queensland, the civil defence organisation is recognised only when a national emergency, for instance, an atomic attack, occurs. The civil defence organisation has no legal power, for instance, in relation to a cyclone. Tn Queensland, when a flood, a cyclone or a drought occurs, all areas are divided into zones under the classification of police inspector's districts.. The civil defence organisation has not (he same power in Queensland as it has in New South Wales. 
Because of this deficiency in our makeup, I believe that in relation to national disasters of this type the laws relating to civil defence at least should be uniform throughout the continent. If the laws are good enough to apply to the work done in New South Wales and experience shows them to be worthwhile, these laws should be applied also in other areas of Australia. 
It is necessary to recognise also. I think, that not all floods are bad. We are inclined to take the view that every flood is bad for the area in which it occurs. Looking at the world situation, we find that a significant proportion of the world's agriculture is produced on the flood plains. Particularly is this so in Asia. Those who have seen the flood plains of Asia often wonder whether it is worthwhile year after year for thepeople to grow rice, for instance, in the paddy fields when they see all of their labours wiped out when a major flood occurs. In China tremendous floods have occurred in the Wang Ho river. Those floods have wiped out millions of acres of crops. But when the floods have subsided it has been found frequently that the fertility content of the alluvium is of a higher value than it was before the floods came. In actual fact it is possible that floods in certain areas will bring periodic benefits to those areas. I think it must be accepted that the alluvium levels in a number of our rich river flats have been established through floods. I think that ail honourable members will accept the fact that it is far better to control waters in areas in which floods may occur than to permit uncontrolled periodic floods which do an increasing amount of damage as the agriculture in those areas becomes more itensified 
Another danger that occurs (ti areas following floods - I have seen this in most areas where flooding occurs - is pollution and, with it, disease. The threat of disease has been quite common in the Hunter River area. I have seen areas in Northern Queensland where, after severe floods, the danger of pollution and the spread of disease has been present simply because good fresh water was not available. Other factors, including the stench of rotting carcasses and sewage 'breakdown. 
The other point that J would like to make is that the Opposition believes that in this programme the Nambucca River in New South Wales should be included in the river systems. We have had representation to this effect. The argument could be put that a need exists for further surveys to be carried out to determine whether the Nambucca River should be included. But through siltation alone enough evidence is available to suggest that a strong case can be made for the inclusion of the Nambucca River in this programme. During the Committee stage the Opposition will move an amendment to this effect. 
Those are the main points that I wish to make. The Opposition supports this Bill. Bills of a similar nature have been supported by the Opposition on the previous occasions when they have been introduced. My friend, the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  has spoken on such Bills several times. I think I am right in saying that the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  has spoken on this legislation several times in support of the remarks of a former honourable member for Cowper,  Mr McGuren,  stressing the great need for flood mitigation work in the Cowper electorate. 
The Opposition does not beat around the bush. It says that this is a good programme which should be supported and which, the Opposition believes, should be expanded. Also - and perhaps this is more important - the Opposition believes that the Government should give some indication that this work will be continuous not only in eastern New South Wales but also in other parts of Australia. Although this work is of tremendous benefit to eastern New South Wales as regards flood mitigation, minimising losses and also with regard to employment, I believe that the injection of this money into local authority areas will give a great boost to employment, particularly .in seasonal industries. This is something which is in the interests of national development. It is something which is causing our national income to increase. It is something which we on this side of the House believe should be expanded. Flood mitigation work should embrace all " major- river systems, particularly those in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, where evidence of losses exists. I am not conversant with the flood position in South Australia, but I do not think that South Australia suffers much damage from floods. 
My friend from South Australia tells me that the biggest problem there is that the State has not sufficient water. All these areas in eastern Australia - in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria - are highly susceptible to flooding as well as to drought. I refer to the coastal streams as well as to some of the inland areas. I mention the Fitzroy basin, the Darling River and the border river streams. All of these areas experience national losses. Therefore, I stress again that the Government should give serious consideration to expanding this work to include other parts of Australia. In conclusion I move an amendment as follows: 
That all the words after -That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'whilst welcoming the proposal for the purpose of flood mitigation works in New South Wales, this House is of opinion that the assistance offered is inadequate and should form part of a larger scheme to deal with national disaster and that, accordingly, a joint select committee of the Parliament should be appointed to inquire into the practicability of the establishment of a national disaster organisation.' 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Prime Minister, by saying that in recent days he has gone to great pains to build an image of himself as a man of the Cabinet, as one who believes that when a Cabinet decision is taken, that decision will be backed to the hilt. 
The statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  provides the House with the Government's decision on the future of devaluation compensation payments. The Opposition has supported in principle the payment of devaluation compensation to some industries, but not all. The Opposition supports the principles behind this payment in cases in which the words that have been commonly used - losses which were demonstrable and unavoidable' - could be substantiated. In those cases something suddenly has happened in world prices, through devaluation, to alter suddenly the returns to those industries which are selling on export markets. In some industries this could have meant bankruptcy. Some industries which were economically viable one minute could have been bankrupt the next. The Government in introducing this measure was supported by the Opposition - and I stress this point - in the case of some industries. But although we support the principle it must be stressed that any devaluation compensation payment or any scheme that involves compensation for losses incurred because of changes in exchange rates must be of only a short term nature. No government or nation can afford to have a policy which would allow continual subsidisation of international markets through devaluation compensation. 
For example, if Japan decided to revalue her currency, either by devaluation or depreciation, we would have to face the issue. If that country decided to devalue her currency it would mean bankruptcy in some industries in this country. Therefore this principle has been established to provide temporary mechanism and temporary compensation until the industry or industries involved are able to adjust themselves to the dynamic marketing changes. Some issues are not dealt with in the statement just made by the Minister. He made reference only to the rural field. If there had been a debate dealing with secondary industry I certainly would have taken issue with the payment to some secondary industries of devaluation compensation. For example, I would have taken issue with the payment of $450,000 to Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd. We know of the profits which have been made by this company. Also, I would have taken issue with the payment of $500,000 in devaluation compensation to John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. 
I do not believe that the same principle should be followed in all cases. There should be some basis of need. A comparison can be made with the Tasmanian apple and pear industry. About 90 per cent of the gross returns of that industry in the 3 years of the economic survey carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics was from devaluation compensation. This industry would have been bankrupt if the Government had not provided this mechanism. We have, then, the 2 extremes. I do not believe there is justification for the payment of a very large amount of devaluation compensation to a very prosperous firm such as John Lysaght. But there is certainly justification for payment to an industry such as the Tasmanian apple industry which depends on export markets to such a degree that if devaluation compensation had not been paid that industry would certainly be bankrupt today. But as I said before, the payment of devaluation compensation cannot go on forever. An industry has to adjust itself to dynamic world changes in marketing patterns. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has set out some of the mechanism whereby the Government will be able to counter the effects of devaluation. The Minister mentioned the stabilisation scheme for the apple and pear industry. I might say to the Minister for Primary Industry that it is time he made a statement in this House about the apple and pear stabilisation scheme instead of making statements all the time outside the House. We want to know more about this scheme and the Minister should make his statements in this place. The Minister has made statements during the last week but it is time that a statement providing Parliament with information on the stabilisation scheme was made in the House. Such a scheme is extremely important to Tasmania and to the canning fruit areas of Victoria that are so dependent on export markets, particularly those that can be affected very greatly if Britain joints the European Economic Community. I would like to refer to one factor which the Minister did not mention and which I believe should be mentioned. I refer to the inflationary aspect of devaluation if it were to continue indefinitely. The Minister has said that about $100m has been injected into the Australian economy. The Opposition has supported in the short term this basic mechanism. Nevertheless this is a fundamental means of accelerating inflationary forces. This sum of money has not been matched by an increase in production or productivity. This extra money has to be found somehow by the Government. Unless it is compensated for by taxation it will be an extra force in the economy. 
My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  spoke this afternoon about the effects of such an operation on wheat. We have to be very, very careful to see that if we continue to inject money into the economy it is matched by productivity or by something which we can sell. The Minister dealt at some length with various industries. One thing is certain if a change takes place in exchange rates: It does not follow that if we get a 10 per cent movement in an exchange rate we will get a 10 per cent increase or decrease in returns. The whole question, of course, is dependent on 2 forms of elasticity - the elasticity of price with respect to demand and the elasticity of income with respect to demand. We have to marry these 2 factors to get the overall effect. 
One practical example of an industry in receipt of devaluation payment is the deciduous fruit industry. After the devaluation of sterling of 14.3 per cent in 1967 the c.i.f. prices of canned deciduous fruit in the United Kingdom rose by a much smaller figure than the 14.3 per cent. This, of course, meant that we had to relate the c.i.f. price to the f.o.b. price and the relatively small rise in the c.i.f. price resulted in a reduction of the f.o.b. price to the deciduous canned fruits industry. This resulted in a reduction in the net returns to the industry. This reduction then had to be made up by some compensatory measure - devaluation compensation. This was the principle behind what the Minister has said. There is no question that the one industry which has been most affected by devaluation compensation is the fruit industry. Most honourable members here who are concerned with fruit production should be very much concerned about the future of this industry. I understand that the apple and pear stabilisation scheme will apply compulsorily to all apples that are sold at risk. A few years ago approximately 35 per cent of apple exports were sold at risk. This figure has jumped now to approximately 70 per cent. If we take Tasmania as an example of the situation in the pear industry, we find that whereas approximately 40 per cent of pear exports were sold at risk a few years ago, the figure now has jumped to 85 per cent. This shows the vulnerability of the fruit growing areas to changes in the exchange rate. 
Those are the main points that I wanted to make. The Opposition believes that the Government has done the right thing in phasing out devaluation compensation. At the same time, some compensatory measures must be taken. For example, what will happen in the dairy industry remains to be seen. In the fruit industry, where there is a limit of $1Om, it remains to be seen whether in fact the changes in the marketing pattern will offset the loss caused by devaluation compensation, lt is to be hoped that stability reigns in the fruit industry and that the apple and pear stabilisation scheme when implemented will stabilise prices to the degree that the net farm income of producers will not be unduly deteriorated because of the phasing out of the devaluation compensation. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has mentioned sugar. As I have said in this House many times, the sugar industry ought to be looked at very closely by other primary industries. It is a model of controlled production in relation to realistic demands. It is quite unlikely that the sugar industry will need devaluation compensation because the residual price of sugar on average will be significantly higher. So the post-devaluation returns of the free market will exceed the pre-devaluation period returns on the free market. No need for devaluation compensation will arise because the sugar industry has tailored its production to a realistic market demand. This is what the fruit industry must do. There can be no question at all about this fact. If we are to continue to rely heavily upon the export market for the fruit industry wc will have to see that the fruit industry tailors its production to realistic market demand. If the industry does not, it is quite obvious that bankruptcy will occur and permanent financial assistance will be needed to keep the heads of the growers above water. By reading between the lines, I think this is what the Government has in mind in phasing out devaluation compensation. At the same time the Government seeks to inject, stability into these industries which in the future will not have further access to devaluation compensation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Robinson)  adjourned. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: (1.) Which persons in Australia are entitled to claim priority in trunk line telephone calls. 
Under what circumstances are those priorities claimed. 
What is the relevant Act and under which section is this priority granted. 
There is still difficulty or even reluctance to appreciate fully that the critical economic condition of the Australian Wool Industry is a national disaster. It is a tragedy of profound importance. Already the deteriorating economic conditions of the wool industry are having a marked effect on the Australian economy. During the last 8 months Australia's wool income has fallen by $140m or by 36 per cent compared with the corresponding period in 1969-70. The sheep industry's indebtedness to lending institutions is now running at about  1,000m. The debt has increased by more than 500 per cent in the last 5 years. This rate of increase in rural indebtedness is paralleled only by the situation that arose in the great depression of 40 years ago. 
At least one-third of Australia's 93,000 wool producers are in a serious financial situation and under current conditions have no future but bankruptcy. The Australian Wool Commission within a period of only a few months of operation has amassed a stockpile of wool to a value of about S30m. As a result of the Commission's decision, that wool is now unavailable for sale. Storage costs of this growing stockpile are already becoming an embarrassment and could well amount to $20 a bale per annum. Has the Government been consulted in the decision to freeze the massive stockpile? If it has been consulted, why has the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  not informed this Parliament of that most important decision? 
The Australian Wool Commission has panicked because of its failure to bludgeon the wool market into accepting higher prices. Grave fears are now arising that the Commission's activities could wreck the entire economic foundation of the wool industry. Some authorities even predict that this massive stockpile of wool will reach 700,000 bales by the end of June next. The aggressive policy of stockpiling wool with the objective of forcing up wool prices is now seriously depressing the market and the immediate future level of wool prices. As the Commission buys and stockpiles more wool, synthetics progressively capture an increasingly greater share of the world's textile markets. 
Powerful sections of the industry are now on the verge of revolt. One of Australia's largest farmer organisations - the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation - has condemned the present tactics of the Commission and has recommended thai the Government should act as quickly as possible to acquire the entire wool clip. Even senior members of the Australian Wool Board have taken the unprecedented action of suggesting that wool production should be controlled and, if necessary, restricted by quotas. Meanwhile the highly organised and efficient synthetic fibre industry is operating at incredibly low prices, relative to wool, and making the position of wool on the world's markets almost intolerable. 
In the last 10 years the prices of nylon, acrylic and polyester fibres have fallen by an average of 35 per cent, relative to the price of wool, even though wool prices have fallen also and are now at bedrock levels. A further crippling factor is the insidious increase in costs which is virtually smashing the viability of almost every sector of sheep production in Australia. Although a large proportion of Australia's most important export industry is faced with financial disaster and even extinction, the Government has made no effort to inform the Parliament, the wool growers or the taxpayers of this nation of its proposed actions in the immediate future to counter this crisis. 
The Government once again is guilty of gross complacency, lt has no forward plan. It is obviously backing the stockpiling activities of the Wool Commission to the hilt on the fallacious assumption that it is in the best interests of wool to remove wool from the world markets. The Government is sitting back hiding behind the skirts of the Wool Commission and handing the Australian wool markets on a plate to synthetic manufacturers. All this Government has done in recent months, to the knowledge of this Parliament and the people, is to echo those profound sentiments of the majestic and incredibly costly International Wool Secretariat that the price of wool is expected to rise perhaps to 40c per lb in the next 10 years. Even if costs in Australia were stabilised for a long term price of 40c per lb this would wipe out a large proportion of wool growers in Australia. But with the Government taking no real action to reduce fixed costs like property rates, land rents and interest rates as well as general farm production costs, the wool industry is entitled to be told of the seriousness of the consequences and the Governments attitude to the decisions of the Wool Commission. 
The nation is entitled to be told the truth about the future of wool in relation to synthetics. Wool growers cannot be expected to wait for 10 years to judge whether the Government's prediction of a price of 40c will be right or wrong. There may be no increase in the world price of wool. In fact, international evidence strongly points to the conclusion that the gap in price between synthetics and wool will widen in favour of synthetics The sheer volume of throughput in the highly organised synthetic factories as compared with the great number of small units of sheep production give decided comparative economic advantages to synthetics. The continuous stockpiling of wool is not sound policy if it means the permanent loss of valuable markets. The Federal Government must take the initiative and attempt to negotiate with other governments, such as those of Japan, the United Kingdom and countries on the European Continent in an endeavour to shift this mounting stockpile of wool and place it strategically on world wool markets. Every effort should be made to negotiate bilateral agreements with major wool consuming countries, even if this does involve government to government trading and the acquisition of the wool clip by the Commission. 
Amendments should be made to the Australian Wool Commission Act to give the Commission power, if authorised by the Government, to acquire wool and to abandon the auction system if this be in the interests of wool growers, the taxpayer and the nation. At the same time the Commission should be given the power to negotiate and sell wool direct to manufacturers throughout the world. The Commission should have, in regard to acquisition and disposal of wool, the same flexible powers over wheat as are possessed by the Australian Wheat Board. All of us, including wool growers, are aware of the dangers of cost inflation to export industries. The action of deliberately stockpiling wool must be regarded as highly inflationary unless the wool sold is able to command a significantly higher price. This has not happened. 
Up to the present time no authoritative organisation has expressed the conviction that a state of chronic over-production may exist in the wool industry or at least among certain types of wool. The Government point-blank refuses even to countenance the view that wool may be oversupplied in relation to the specialised markets on which the future of wool so heavily depends. Most industry leaders take the view that there are serious production and marketing problems, including collusion and buying cartels, but so far they refuse to admit that over-production in relation to market demand may be the real cause. Always there is the argument that all wool can be sold. But at what price? Wool growers are now seriously questioning the future of wool. The plain fact is that the world price of wool has fallen to bedrock level. The only conclusion that can be reached, unless buyer collusion or buyer resistance exists on a very significant scale, is that the market is over-supplied with certain types of wool. In other words, the low price of wool is due to the relationship between the supply and price of wool and the supply and price of synthetics. 
The streamlined and highly efficient marketing and promotion techniques for synthetic fibres, which are backed by enormous industrial research programmes, are a threat of unqualified importance, lt would be an act of gross irresponsibility for industry leaders or any government to refuse to recognise this technical and economic threat. The Opposition demands of this Government that it face up to its responsibilities. The primary producers who are in trouble have for too long had to listen to the Government's pathetic bleating that it will not act at all unless the industry tells it what to do. The consistent failure of the Liberal-Country Party Government to provide forward thinking and positive leadership and to implement progressive agricultural policies has undoubtedly resulted in economic hardships to primary industries and ancillary servicing industries. 
What are the real recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the Australian Wool Board and the International Woo) Secretariat on the best course of action to be taken by Australia in the immediate future? This is what the wool growers and the Parliament want to know. Do these organisations endorse the policies of the Wool Commission of stockpiling wool and refusing it to be sold or placed on the world market in competition with synthetics? Why can the Government not tell the Parliament and the wool growers whether these illustrious organisations, which are financed by wool growers, fully support the actions of the Wool Commission in deep freezing and stockpiling wool? I find it incredible that the Australian Wool Board and the International Wool Secretariat could endorse a policy which deliberately reduces the amount of wool available 10 textile manufacturers throughout the world. If wool had a monopoly certainly (his type of action to regulate prices would be justified, but wool is faced with dynamic cutthroat competition in the textile fibre industry. The Wool Commission is gambling heavily on the short term and apparently believes that its actions will be justified by a rise in wool prices. lt is the future of wool which the Government should be seriously considering and acting upon. What is the Government doing about the immediate future of wool? lt must be clear to everyone that the future of wool will depend heavily upon its capacity to compete in a fiercely competitive market with man-made fibres, if wool fails to do this its future will be tied to small, selective markets which concentrate on highly priced commodities for an exclusive clientele, lt will be analagous to the demand for fillet steak relative to the more popular and lower priced cuts which collectively yield the highest return from a carcass. 1 believe that the present policy of the Wool Commission of deliberately acquiring mounting stockpiles of wool and withdrawing it from the market is a dangerous gamble which has all the earmarks of backfiring. To withdraw wool from the cutthroat markets of the world at a time when these markets are exposed to gluts the over-production of all fibres - man made and natural - is playing right into the hands of the synthetics manufacturers, who are quickly filling the vacuum left by the reduction in the supply of wool on the world market. 
The Opposition wants a full debate on this most ' important subject. The wool industry is Australia's greatest export earning industry. There have been export earnings of up to $800m a year in the past. The economic lifeblood of this nation depends on these export earnings, lt would seem that the Government is apathetic to the degree that it has even refused to tell the wool growers what it intends to do. They have to wait for shock announcements from the Wool Commission as to what is going to happen next. It is quite obvious that the Government, as the elected representatives of the people of Australia, has a responsibility to tell the Parliament, the wool growers and the taxpayers what it intends to do to save and to salvage this great Australian industry. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker.  I wish to make a personal explanation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  criticised me and said that I had stated that the entire wool clip should be acquired. I shall read from the Hansard report of what I did say: 
One of Australia's largest farmer organisations, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, has condemned the present tactics of the Commission and has recommended that the Government should act as quickly as possible to acquire the entire wool clip. 
I support the motion now before the House for the provision of more efficient power facilities at Alice Springs in the Northern Territory. I think the House is indebted to my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  for the comments he has made in raising this problem which the Public Works Committee experienced in its investigation of this proposal, namely, whether natural gas or other types of fuel should be used. He has stated that if the power station is to be converted to natural gas it might cost up to $260,000. 
One would imagine that it would not be difficult to have a feasibility study of this matter made either by the experts in the Department of National Development or by other departments that the Commonwealth has at its disposal. Surely the Government should take some initiative in giving the Parliament views on whether this is economic or not. The Committee has used the words If natural gas becomes commercially and economically available in sufficient time to be planned for. That could mean that natural gas might become commercially available just after the installation of the power house facilities. If $260,000 is involved, this is a matter which must be looked at seriously. 1 fully endorse the remarks of the. honourable member for Hughes that surely the Department of National Development should have arranged for a feasibility study to be made at least to test whether natural gas could be applied commercially to this project and other projects and to give the Public Works Committee the benefit of the decision arrived at. As it is, the matter is left up in the air. What we need for the Northern Territory is the cheapest possible power, in contrast to what has happened in the past. I do not know what the honour able member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is laughing at. As soon as one mentions northern development he wants to oppose it. I do not know what he said just now, but as soon as one mentions anything about the development of northern Australia he opposes it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
What the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  said about the cherry industry made a lot of sense. It is quite obvious that the Tariff Board has made some basic mistakes in its assessment of the industry. However, I am not here to deal with that matter. It is a pity that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  was not here to listen to the honourable member. 
One has to do more than tell Ministers. I told the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  that I would be speaking about a matter which comes within his portfolio. He is not here. I expected him to be here to answer questions about the Northern Territory. On behalf of a large number of people - perhaps the great majority of people - in the Northern Territory I voice my opinion and disapproval of continued Government neglect of many aspects of the Northern Territory. Like many other people, I was shocked and dismayed at the appointment of the present Minister for the Interior to handle this most difficult area of administration. It is one more instance of the Cinderella treatment of this Government of the people of the Territory. The administration of the Territory demands and justifies the appointment of a senior Minister to the portfolio concerned with the Northern Territory. It is a most important portfolio. It deals with people who have pioneered and developed the Territory. It deals with problems which are extremely important to Australia and to the Commonwealth. The administration of the Territory covers complex matters such as the welfare of Aboriginals, development and the administration functions of the Legislative Council. All these matters are complex and important matters. 
In the past  Mr Hasluck,  as he then was, was the Minister for Territories. The present Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  succeeded  Mr Hasluck  in that portfolio. Then the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  took over the administration of the Territory when he was the Minister for the Interior. These men had a grasp of the problems of the Northern Territory. But as each moved to a different portfolio or as the Northern 
Territory came under the administration of another portfolio, the Territory went back in terms of administration. It went back until the new Minister had time to grasp the difficult problems. I simply echo the sentiments which are being expressed in the Northern Territory about the contempt and arrogance that this Government is displaying towards the people of the Territory. The present Minister has been in the Parliament for no more than about 2 years. I would say that his knowledge of the Territory is zero. This does not necessarily mean that he will not do a good job, but a person who has some knowledge of the Territory and of its problems would have been more acceptable and certainly would have been able to do a better job for the Territory more quickly. 
I am pleased to see that the Minister has now arrived in the chamber. I shall not repeat all of what I said. I am concerned that the people of the Territory should get the best chance and the best possible deal from the Government. Now that the Minister is here I shall ask him some pertinent questions about the Territory. It is being said - I do not necessarily agree - that he will simply be another puppet of the Government, a person who will sign letters whenever the senior departmental people say that they should be signed and a person who does not understand how the Legislative Council and the Administrator's Council work. These are the allegations that are flying around the Territory. 
The Minister may reply after I have finished, but I will bet that he does not reply. If he does, I will be very glad to hear his reply and I will listen in silence. I and the people of the Northern Territory hope that the Minister will not simply be a rubber stamp of his Department. This has happened so often in the past until Ministers have got a grasp of the subject. This is what is being said. Before the Minister entered the chamber I said that I did not know how much knowledge he had of the Territory. I repeat that I think his knowledge is zero. I suppose he has been there. How could he possibly have any knowledge, parliamentary or otherwise, of the complex administrative problems of the Territory? I have looked at the speeches he has made since he has been a member of this House. He has made not one speech about the Northern Territory. Yet the Government appointed him to administer one of the most difficult portfolios, the Department of the Interior, which is responsible for the administration of the Northern Territory. 
The Northern Territory has been the backwash for too long. Broken down politicians are sent up there to be Administrators. One was Roger Dean, a kindly, benevolent gentleman certainly, but a man with as much drive and initiative as a stuffed dodo. Now there is  Mr Chaney  who was defeated at the last election. Fearless Fred' they call him in the Northern Territory because of all the mistakes he makes, speaking off the cuff. These are the people responsible for the Northern Territory. It is about time that the Northern Territory had an Administrator or a Minister who understands the problems of the Northern Territory. What does the Minister for the Interior know about constitutional reform? I would like to hear his views on it and on the objective of allowing the Legislative Council to speak on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory and to truly represent the people of the Northern Territory. What does the Minister know? He is not even listening. He is too busy talking to his honourable friend, the Minister for External Territories. 
Well, I would like the Minister to listen and pay some respect. I think the people of the Northern Territory would like him to listen and not sit on the seat like a galah. 
Order! I would suggest to the honourable member for Dawson that perhaps he appreciates the fact that he is taking part in a debate in this House. He might give some consideration to some of the references he has been making in the last couple of minutes. 
I respect your judgment,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
 Yes, I do. I know a bit about birds. What I would like the Minister to give us are his views on the restrictions deliberately imposed on the Legislative Council by the Government in order to nobble it and to stop it making decisions in relation to budgets and the disbursement of funds for the Northern Territory, for the development of the Northern Territory and for the people of the Northern Territory. What does the Minister think of the Administrator's Council? Does he believe that it is functioning all right, as it was set up to do? I assume that he has heard of the Administrator's Council by now. 
What do they think of it? Did they say? 
I am sure that the people of the Northern Territory will be pleased to hear that there is a joint study group at last. The Northern Territory is being subjected to the worst type of treatment by the worst type of government that we have seen. It is a pseudo-colonialist type of government, controlled by a bureaucracy in Canberra. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who is trying to interject, should keep out of it. We take no notice of him. I do not even include him in the audience. Struggling Administrators in Darwin - 
The honourable member need not listen. He should move out, because he is not often here. I was dealing with the type of Government in the Northern Territory and the inefficiencies that are being perpetrated in the area because of the restrictions placed on the Legislative Council. The Legislative Council must advance. Has the Minister any views on the composition of the Legislative Council? Can he say that, in his opinion, it should be fully elected, that it should have the right to govern and that it at least should have the right to the same ministerial responsibility as is given to some of the members of the New Guinea House of Assembly who have ministerial responsi bility? Has the Minister any views on that, because this is most important? We know full well that the Government will always appoint a junior Minister to the Northern Territory so that he can act as some type of puppet for the Government so that the veto to withhold assent can be used. 1 would like to know what the Minister is going to do about the motions outstanding in the Legislative Council which are still waiting for assent to be given. I would also like to know what he is going to do about the unconscionable delays that have been part and parcel of the Northern Territory's development and the restrictions on the statutory boards of the Northern Territory that have been part and parcel of this Government. 
The Opposition supports in principle the 3 Bills before the House. In the Committee stages we shall move 2 amendments dealing specifically with penalties and in relation to evidence secured by people authorised by writ to do so. The principal objective of the Dried Fruits Research Bill 1971 is to establish a joint Commonwealth-industry research scheme following the accepted and tried principles laid down by legislation pertaining to other industries. Funds will be raised by means of a levy on dried fruit, and in addition the Commonwealth Government, following again the principles adopted with respect to other industries, will match this contribution on a $1 for $1 basis. The second Bill, the Dried Fruits Levy Bill, authorises the imposition of the levy relating to dried fruits. The amounts equivalent to levy collection will be credited to the Dried Fruits Research Trust Account and this Account will be the working arrangement whereby the moneys which are used for research purposes are debited. The second Bill will provide that the rate of levy must not exceed $1 a ton of currants, sultanas and raisins and $5 a ton of dried apricots, pears, peaches, nectarines and prunes. As with other similar pieces of legislation the operative rates of levy to be imposed will be prescribed by regulation. 
As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the levy will be imposed on a net sweat box weight of all dried fruits of these kinds delivered to packing houses after the commencement of the 
Act. The operative rate is the rate which will apply in the first instance. The operative rate in respect of currants, sultanas and raisins will be 50c a ton and in respect of dried tree fruits the operative rates of levy relating broadly' to' the prospective sale value of each kind of fruit will be prescribed. As the! Minister pointed out, this will be done in consultation with the research committee. ' The third Bill is simply the machinery Bill which again is common to all similar pieces of legislation in connection with the collection of research funds. This Bill enables the Government to provide the machinery " necessary for the collection of the levy On dried fruits imposed by the Dried Fruits Levy Bill. 
The principal objective, of this legislation, of course, is to. enable the industry, by a process of self-help backed by Commonwealth finance, to.- undertake specific measures of research- directly or indirectly concerned with the production and marketing of dried fruits. It will relate specifically to currants, sultanas .and raisins and the deciduous tree fruits.; such as apricots, pears, peaches, nectarines and prunes. I understand from reading- the second reading speech of the Minister that although there are some small i pockets of dried apple production in- Tasmania, at this stage this part of the Tasmanian apple industry will not be the. subject of research. I do not know the reason for that. I would have thought that it could easily have been included because although it is only a minor industry as such, nevertheless the principles in the process of drying fruit could equally apply in some instances to apples. We will not . make an issue of this but I cannot see any - basic reason why dried apples should not be covered by this Bill even though they represent only a small proportion of the apple industry located in Tasmania. ' 
There is no need for me to emphasise the great importance .of- dried fruits to some regions of Australia, basically the area in close proximity to the Murray River. There are areas in Western Australia where dried fruits are also important but without question it is the Murray environment which is the principal producing region in Australia and with which we are concerned here. Members who represent such areas fully realise the great importance to the economies of those regions of specific industries, in this case, the dried fruits industry. 
Honourable members who represent Murray River electorates know full well the great importance of regional development and the economic consequences if anything goes wrong with the financial health of a specialised industry. I represent an electorate which contains the biggest sugar growing area in Australia. The same economic principles as regards regional development apply there. It is of utmost importance that we realise this because in recent years we have had under discussion the consequences of Britain's entry into the European Common Market. Although the loss of markets, specifically in terms of fruit, sugar, soft wheat and similar products may not be in aggregate greatly detrimental to the economy of Australia - that is relative to the total gross value of production or even the gross value of our exports - to a region any significant loss of a market and any significant reduction in income could not only affect primary producers but, through the multiplier theory, influence and affect greatly those who depend on the hard core or nucleus of primary production. We have seen practical examples of this in Australia quite clearly in the great wool industry because of recent droughts and falling prices. I believe that the principle of regional development is something we have to emphasise a lot more. Too often we look at primary industry in Australia as a whole and do not concentrate sufficiently on regional development. That is one reason why the Opposition will always support the Government in any constructive plan to increase the economic health of a basic Australian industry, be it primary or secondary industry. 
I think the 2 main avenues of research in dried fruits are processing and marketing. The actual production of dried fruits is important but this is a separate matter. In this Bill the 2 areas of priority for research funds would, I think, be the processing and marketing of the product. This would involve economic research into the packaging and marketing of the finished product both in Australia and overseas. We must keep abreast of technological changes and one way to do this is to utilise our own scientists, agricultural economists and marketing economists in their respective specialised fields. In the dried fruits industry technology is on the move and anyone who believes that we can- sit still and hope that markets will come to Australia is in for a shock. We have to' produce a product which will sell in competition from other major exporting countries: and we have to get out and find markets for our products. We have had research in the dried fruits industry but it has been on an ad hoc approach and it has applied to specific fruits rather than to the different varieties of a fruit. 
The Research Committee will follow the usual pattern of other ' research organisations. From memory I think there are approximately 9 industries which have voluntarily agreed to contribute finance, backed by Commonwealth contributions. The Dried Fruits Research, Committee will broadly follow the same basis of other research committees in that the industry itself will have the dominant voice on the Committee as to the allocation of funds and the evaluation and the determination of priorities. The Research Committee will comprise 4 representatives of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, 2 representatives of packers of dried fruits, 3 representatives of the Australian Agricultural Council, one Representative of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and one representative of the Department- of Primary Industry. This will be, a, well balanced Committee with men pf practical experience of the problems relating to specific areas and industries. The men on this Committee will be experienced in the production and marketing of dried fruits, both domestically and overseas. The Committee will also have the assistance of fundamental and applied scientists. Taken by and large I believe that the Committee represents another excellent step forward in the formulation of research projects for the benefit of the dried fruits industry and for the benefit of the nation. One function of the Committee will be ,to receive applications from various institutions such as universities in Australia and from people concerned with production or with scientific research into dried fruits, including fundamental, applied or technical research. The Committee will decide whether to allocate funds to the research proposals submitted to it. The research will be administered and supervised by competent authorities. At the same time the Committee will be highly conscious of the principles underlining priorities. 
I want to say something about research because it is something about which I feel very strongly, and I am not the only one in industry or in research fields who feels this way. We are inclined to look at a lot of research in isolation when we do not have the machinery with which to examine at length whether there is any overlapping of research. We are also inclined to take for granted that because a first class scientist is doing the research such research must be good, and this applies particularly in the field of fundamental research.I do not question in any way the value of research. What I am saying is that 1 believe that today we have to think more of priorities, particularly economic research and we should give it a greater weighting than perhaps even fundamental research. I do not in any way decry the work of the fundamental research scientist. We need these people. But world markets are changing so quickly and the profitability in the dried fruits market, which is small, is also changing, so that we have to have greater emphasis placed on economic and marketing research. 
I do not want my remarks to be construed in any way that I am criticising the work of the fundamental scientist. I was associated with research organisations prior to entering into politics. What I am trying to say is that I know that very often the fundamental scientist is treated as some sort of a god, that what he says goes and if you question or evaluate the benefits of his work he will say 'I do not know, but I may be able to tell you in one year or 10 years time'. This is fundamental research and there is nothing wrong with it. We need replicated research. I may criticise any overlapping of fundamental research but by the same token the more people we have doing the research the greater the chance we have of achieving a constructive and substantive conclusion. The point I want to make is that I believe this Research Committee will have to determine priorities and this is one reason why the industry should have the dominant say in determining research proposals rather than perhaps the scientists. 
I urge the Government to give consideration to the evaluation of research. I am not one of the those people who treat research as a magic word. As one who has been trained in the field of research 1 am fully conscious of its deficiencies. I am conscious of the fact that any Government that is spending huge amounts of Federal money on research carried out by the CSIRO or by universities should ensure that there is some accounting of that research to the Parliament. Where industries are involved there should also be some accounting to those industries. There are plenty of scientists who would like to build a research empire; given the chance they would and good luck to them if they can get away with it.. One can always argue that all research is good. Perhaps it is, provided it is constructive and adds to knowledge. However, research has to be subject to evaluation and I believe it has to be subject to scrutiny. It should be accountable to the Parliament from time to time and particularly to the industry involved . which is supplying half of the funds. I make that plea in regard to the evaluation of research. 
As I have said, I feel very strongly about this. Perhaps one of these days when we get a chance we will be able to debate some of the avenues of research over the past 20 years. If we evaluated this research we might have second thoughts about spending hundreds of thousands of dollars in a particular field of research. I repeat that this is not to decry in any way the role of fundamental or applied research. We have to have both we have to have extension, but at the same time we must have the machinery for evaluation. I hope that in the debate on this Bill the Minister will give honourable members some idea of what is to happen to the stability of the dried vine fruits industry. This industry is vitally affected by this legislation. 
Honourable members will recall that on 10th September 1969 the then Minister for Primary Industry, now the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made a statement in which he said that the Government was considering' with some concern the question of the stability of the dried vine fruits industry and that it had agreed in principle to consider the possibility of implementing a further stabilisation scheme, which would be an extension of the 1964-68 dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme. The Minister, after considerable discussion with the Australian Dried Fruits Association, had arrived at a stabilisation plan for currants, sultanas and raisins. This generated considerable speculation and controversy throughout the industry. In fact, a major split developed in the industry, which is something that an industry should attempt to avoid. The people in the dried vine fruits industry were for and against the plan. Some wanted a statutory authority and others wanted a stabilisation scheme. 
Under such circumstances a referendum was held to decide whether a stabilisation scheme would he acceptable to a majority of growers. The closing date of the poll was 23rd March 1970. Then the Minister made a statement to the effect that the proposal had been rejected by the eligible growers on the criteria laid down by the Government. Although 65 per cent of growers voted in favour of the proposal and 35 per cent voted against it, the fact was that only two-thirds of all eligible growers voted, so only 42 per cent of eligible growers voted in favour of the scheme. It is important to consider this factor because no matter whether we establish a statutory authority or introduce a stabilisation scheme, as we know it, we must have a stable industry, and the research which is to be undertaken as a result of this Bill must and should be applied to a stable industry. 
The question that I ask the Minister is: What is happening to the stability of the dried vine fruits industry? At the present time we are receiving disturbing reports about the increasing production of the dual variety of grapes, that is, grapes which can be used for drying and for fresh consumption. Of course, once the bearing acreage is increased the industry can be confronted with the problem of oversupply. From time to time in this Parliament I have argued strongly that all phases of primary industry have to be reorganised and that we have to refrain from adopting this ad hoc, uncoordinated approach to primary industry. We have to reorganise primary industry in relation to realistic markets; not airy-fairy markets which, it is hypothesised, might eventuate, but realistic markets which exist at the present time and which will exist in the immediate future. 
We have to tailor our production in basic demand to fit the realistic markets. It is important to consider this factor because the dried fruit industry is unlike the wheat industry which produces a cash crop, and production can be increased or decreased very quickly. Once vines and trees are established there are virtually fixed production levels and the only way in which production can be reduced is to chop down the vines or trees or for the vines or trees to be subjected to weather conditions, such as frost. I ask that question so that the Minister might be able to give honourable members and the industry some indication of what the Government is thinking at the presenttime. 
That is all I have to say on this measure. The Opposition supports the legislation, as it has done with other research Bills which have come before the Parliament. However, at the Committee stage we will move 2 amendments dealing with the questions of penalties and the collection of evidence by those people authorised under the legislation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Turnbull)  adjourned. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2.). 
This sub-clause deals with the recovery of a levy. The Opposition has no quarrel with sub-clause (1.) which relates to amounts that may be recovered by the Commonwealth as debts due to the Commonwealth. That provision is quite straightforward but sub-clause (2.) is quite obnoxious and contrary to British justice. What it means is that any person, who has the right to go on to a producer's property if he or she chooses, can make any averment whatsoever and that averment then can be taken as evidence and there can be no argument against it. This contravenes the very essence of democracy. To make matters worse the Commonwealth, if it is the prosecuting authority, can wait up to 5 years before the averment is dealt with. We will be dealing with that aspect soon. Any contention or any statement supposedly relating to a complaint can be made by a person acting on behalf of the Commonwealth. We must assume, therefore, that every such person - public servant, bailiff or whatever he may be - concerned with this legislation will be scrupulously honest to the degree that he would never bear a grudge against a primary producer, never bear malice of any sort against any grower and never show any degree of bias. He will be a. pillar of virtue and impartial at every stage. We do not even accord this degree of virtue to the professionals, the police, yet we are prepared to accept any averment by a person who will be policing the levy. 
I find it incredible that a Country Party Minister can be a party to the sub-clause. One could imagine the admission of this type of evidence in some Gestapo state but it is foreign to Australian democracy. It is completely incredible that the Country Party Minister in charge of the Bill should agree to this type of averment against which there will be no argument. Any averment in the complaint by the plaintiff can be used as evidence and it may not be challenged for up to 5 years. Imagine this hanging over the head of a dried vine fruits producer who has a family to maintain and whose children are going to school. But this is what the Government proposes. Australia is becoming almost a police state when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  starts these capers. The people whom the Minister allows to go on to properties to check trees or whatever else it is can make an averment which can be used in evidence. For our part the Opposition will have no part of this. 
I would like to comment briefly on what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said. Taking what he has said to be true it would seem that this clause was inserted in the Bill to deal with only a few  people. I would submit that clause 11, - which we have not dealt with but which is relevant, deals with a person who fails to furnish returns and provide basic information and the penalty of S200 is sufficient. In fact, I would submit that if this were omitted the Bill would be just as viable and just as lethal. I really do not believe that the fact that it is in other research Bills that have gone through is relevant. That does not impress me at all; that does not mean it is right. But I would submit that if this were taken out it would not weaken the Bill in any way because we have clause 1 1 which fully protects the inspectors and enables the Commonwealth to take the defaulters to court. The penalties are there. But to me this is a question of the violation of a principle. This is obnoxious to the idea of justice which we in this country support, and frankly, I find it, as I said before, rather incredible that the Country Party would be wanting to put something in a Bill which could in fact lead to abuse and the penalising of primary producers. 

<graphic href="071131197103304_48_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197103304_48_0_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197103304_48_0_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question pui: 
That the sub-clause proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  stand part of the clause. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2.), omit 'five years', insert twelve months'. 
Sub-clause (2.) of clause 11 of this Bill deals with prosecution for an offence under this clause and it provides that prosecution may be commenced at any time within 5 years after the commission of the offence. The part of clause II which the Opposition seeks to amend is that which relates to the time limit within which prosecution may be commenced. The Opposition takes the view that to allow a prosecution for such an offence to be commenced at any  time within 5 years after the commission of the offence is contrary to the spirit of this Bill. The offences covered in clause 11 are not criminal offences. The Minister went to great pains to say that the levy is to be collected from persons concerned with the dried fruits industry and that the Commonwealth will provide matching grants. In the event of an offence against clause 11 a certain penalty can be imposed. The Opposition's objection to clause 11 is the time of 5 years within which a prosecution may be commenced. One can imagine that if a grower, a packer or someone concerned with the provisions of this Bill committed some criminal offence the time limit of 5 years within which to commence prosecution may well apply. However, one can imagine a trivial offence being committed by such a person. For example, an inspector may find something wrong and this would be hanging over the head of the producer and his family; they would be waiting for the Commonwealth to make up its mind to prosecute. I believe this is wrong and contrary to British justice. 
If the Commonwealth Government is properly to administer the provisions of this Bill it should be able to commence proceedings within 12 months. Why should it have to wait up to 5 years? This is an incredible clause. With all the resources available to the Commonwealth, if it cannot prosecute within 12 months after the commission of such an offence it must be guilty of mismanagement. This clause is offensive and it is contrary to the spirit of this Bill. It is not a Bill which makes provision for criminal proceedings. The Government should be able to commence proceedings within 12 months of the commission of the offence. This is why the Opposition has moved this amendment. 
The objective of the Pig Industry Research Bill 1971 is to provide for the establishment and to enable the operation of a Commonwealth industry research scheme for the Australian pig industry. This Bill follows in principle the Dried Fruits Research Bill which we have just discussed. We are discussing 3 Bills in this debate. One makes provision for the establishment of a research scheme: the second Bill authorises the imposition of a levy for research purposes; and the third Bill deals with the machinery for the collection of that levy. The basic objective is for a levy to be imposed on al! pigs slaughtered for human consumption, the moneys collected to be used to finance research schemes for the benefit of the pig industry throughout Australia. Under this proposal the maximum levy will be 10c per pig slaughtered. As with other research Bills, there is an operative rate and this has been fixed by the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Bill at 5c per pig. in his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  estimated that approximately $150,000 to $165,000 will be collected from the levy. He also said that the Commonwealth will make matching grants on a $1 for $1 basis. In other words, the total funds available to the industry for research will be double the amount collected. The levy will be payable by abattoirs and they will, of course, be the places where the pigs are to be slaughtered. The incidence of the levy will fall on the owner of the pigs at the time of slaughter. The pig industry is another industry which has joined the ranks of research. Al the present time it is estimated that approximately 70 per cent of the total value of primary production or rural production in Australia - and this includes the pig industry - is actually covered by producers who are making payments for the purposes of research. Therefore we have self-help which is backed by Federal finance. The Minister has informed us that the request for research arose through the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation which is the Federal organisation of the pig industry. The Federation consists of 6 State councils which represent the great majority, as the Minister has said, of the pig farmers in Australia. 
The Minister said that the ACPPF speaks with a national voice. He implied that all pig bodies are represented. This, ot course, is not strictly true. The Minister's second reading speech implied that the decision to implement a research scheme was a unanimous one. From reading the Minister's second reading speech one gains the impression that the Federal body speaks with a national voice and it could be inferred that the whole of the industry was behind it. However, the pig committee of the Victorian Farmers Union does not agree with the proposition which is before the House. Also, the Australian Primary Producers Union pig committee in Queensland does not agree. 1 believe that the Minister should have stated this in his second reading speech. It is desirable that, if possible, all organisations of a particular industry should be within a Federal body. I have always argued in this House that it is far better to speak with one voice than to speak with a divided voice. 
A delegation from the pig committee of the Victorian Farmers Union saw members of the Opposition and expressed the opinion to us that they would first of all like to see a referendum before legislation for a compulsory levy was introduced in this House. The delegation informed members of the Opposition that there was a significant difference of opinion on this issue within the industry throughout Australia. I made it clear to members of the delegation that if they could prove this and if in fact there was a considerable difference of opinion and widespread opposition to a levy for research in the pig industry the Opposition would take a responsible attitude and raise this question with the Government in the Parliament. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is quite clear: If there is evidence of widespread opposition from the rank and file pig producers, we believe a referendum should be held. 
Let me summarise the policy of the Australian Labor Party in respect of such a compulsory levy. If an industry asks for research and if a government believes that this research is in the best interests of the industry and the nation - and this includes the consumers - that research levy should be implemented. Tn other words, if there is a unanimous decision within the industry and if the Government believes that such a levy is in the best interests of the nation and the industry, measures to effect it should be implemented. In this case, if there is uncertainty to the degree that there is a wide difference of opinion and open opposition among the rank and file pig producers, newspapers, delegations, parliamentary representatives and so on, of course producers should have the right to express that opinion through a referendum. 
As an example, we can recall that some years ago a price reserve scheme was proposed for wool, although this was not a compulsory levy. Just recently we had a stabilisation scheme proposal for the dried vine fruits industry. Also, we hoped that the Government would allow a referendum because of the widespread opposition to the lifting of the embargo of merino sheep. There has been wide opposition to all of these schemes. There has been wide opposition to the degree that members of Parliament received constant delegations from the rank and file primary producers and a crosssection of the community. There was a definite case for a referendum. The Pig Committee of the Victorian Farmers Union has made it clear to us in writing that its pig producers are not opposed to research or a levy for research purposes. It seems that what they are basically opposed to is the way in which research moneys are allocated. They question the priorities on which research funds are allocated. 
The main point I am making here is that the Opposition has given very careful consideration to whether or not it should move an amendment to defer this legislation until a referendum has been held. After careful consideration and consultation we came to the conclusion that this would not be fair unless we received evidence of widespread opposition from pig producers themselves. To be quite fair, despite previous concern and the possible need for a referendum, we have not had this widespread opposition to the imposition of a research levy - I stress the term 'the imposition of a research levy' as distinct from the value of research or the allocation of research funds. I wish to say forcefully to the Minister that if there is evidence of widespread opposition from the rank and file pig producers to the payment of the levy for research then a referendum should be held. But the Opposition has not received any factual evidence of widespread opposition from pig producers to research or to the levy as distinct from the distributionor allocation of funds for research and the priorities for research. 
I wish to make that clear, because when the Pig Committee of the Victorian Farmers Union first discussed the matter with us I must admit I was quite concerned, as I thought there was widespread opposition to the levy from the commercial pig producers of Australia. I conferred at some length with members of the Opposition and others to see if pig producers had come to Canberra and expressed their opposition to the levy. The Opposition will always move for referenda if it believes there is a case for them and particularly if there is controversy or opposition on a widespread basis or if it believes that the research is not in the best interests of the nation. I do not think that anybody in this Parliament or any of the pig producers would argue that research is not warranted at this point of time. However, the question is one of the evaluation of research. That is a different proposition. 
The Federal Pig Committee of the Victorian Farmers' Federation has expressed grave concern at the way research projects are frequently determined. Some criticism is made of the priorities and the benefits of particular research projects. As I mentioned in the debate on the last Bill, there is some validity in this concern. I believe that there should be an annual evaluation of research funds to see whether they are being used to achieve the optimum benefits for the industry and for the nation as a whole. The pig industry in Australia has scope for expansion but not as great an expansion as many people would like. Some people believe that we have a great potential for increased pig production for the export market. Before the war approximately 15,000 tons of pig meats were exported each year. At the end of the war about 3.000 tons a year were exported. Since then there has been a slight surplus. In very recent years this has been increased to some degree with considerable exports to Japan. 
The 2 major markets on the Continent - United Kingdom and the European Economic Community countries - are the biggest importers of pig meats in the world, but these 2 markets are the most difficult for Australia to break into. The United 
Kingdom imports principally cured pig meats from Denmark, Poland and Ireland. The principal Common Market countries which import pork are France, West Germany and Italy. These are supplied by the European Economic Community countries themselves. As we are now more familiar with the common agricultural policy of the European Economic Community we know that it is virtually a free trade area in itself with a huge protective barrier around it inhibiting imports from countries not in the Common Market. This makes it most difficult for Australia to break into the 2 main traditional markets, the United Kingdom and Europe. It wilt be difficult to increase our exports to those 2 markets. The only other area which appears to offer prospects for increased exports of pig meats is Asia. One example is Hong Kong. We must realise that China is an important country as far as pig production is concerned. China has the capacity to swamp any Asian market of any consequence. 
Perhaps one of the best markets in the future will be Japan. If we handle the pig situation constructively Japan could emerge as a major importer of pig meats. The best market for pig meats is obviously our own domestic market. I would sound this note of warning about research into meats. There is a fairly stable aggregate demand for meat per capita. If one adds together the total consumption of beef, veal, mutton, lamb, poultry and pig meats one gets a fairly stable aggregate which is about 220 lbs of meat per annum. In the last 20 years or so the aggregate has varied around that figure. It is a fairly stable aggregate per capita per annum. Where the big change takes place is between meats. We have to be very careful about doing a lot of research and promotion in one of the meat industries. We could increase the domestic consumption of, say, pig meats at the expense of other meats. One could legitimately say: 'So what?' After all, pigs are competing with beef, lamb and so forth. It might be a good thing to reduce the consumption of beef and increase the consumption of pig meats at a time when we could sell all our beef on the export market and therefore gain a greater amount of export earnings. There is some logic in that. 
I want to warn the Government that we have to be very careful in the promotion of meats. We are not going to get more people to eat more meat in the aggregate. It would simply mean that we would be spending a lot more money in the various research and promotion fields to get more people to change their dietary habits. One could then argue that it is a waste of resources simply to change from one to the other. The only people who would really benefit would be the advertising companies. There has been a marked change in the dietary habits of Australians with respect to pig meats. In 1950 the consumption per head per annum of carcass pig meats was approximately 7 lbs At the present time it is about 20 lbs. So there has been a significant increase in the 'consumption per head and total consumption. On the other hand, the compensating factor has been a fall in beef and veal consumption. In 1950 the consumption per head of beef and veal was 124 lb. This has fallen to about 90 lb per head. So there has been a marked increase in the consumption of pig meats and a marked decrease in the consumption of beef. As I said before, there is nothing wrong with this provided that we can sell all our beef, which we have been able to do, and provided that the export market is as good as the domestic market. 
It would seem that there is considerable scope in Australia, however, for increased consumption of pig meats. 1 mentioned before that, taking bacon into account, the total consumption of pig meat per head in Australia is 20 lb to 25 lb per annum. When we compare this with consumption in the United States of America, which "s approximately 65 lb per head per annum, we see that there is considerable scope for an increase in the consumption of pig meats in Australia. In European countries the consumption is as high as 85 lb per head per annum. So if Australia follows the pattern of other developed countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom and the continental countries, we can expect to see a steady increase in the consumption of pig meats in Australia. There are several factors which will bring this about. One relates to the dietary habits of people. Since the War we have had an influx of migrants, who are perhaps more prone 10 eat pork than are Australians. There has been an increase in the quality of pig meat and more housewives are ordering and cooking roast pork, pork chops and so on. than before. 
Another factor is the price of feed grains. The pig industry is peculiar in that it is one of the few industries in Australia in which there has not been a significant increase in the cost of production because 70 per cent to 80 per cent of the cash costs of production of pigs are feed costs. As there has been a tremendous change in the pattern of production, from the traditional by-products of the dairy industry to grains, one sees that this is an industry in which considerable savings can be effected, lt is one of the few industries in which there has not been a significant increase in costs of production because 'he price of feed grains has not increased at the same rate as the price of other feed stocks which contribute to the costs of production in other industries. Another factor affecting the consumption of pig meats is Australia is the lower price relatively for skim milk. So. taken by and large, there is a climate for a steady increase in the annual per capita consumption of pig meats in Australia. 
What types of pig research are needed? The Victorian Farmers Union, whose representatives saw us, has put forward some constructive views on the types of research that are needed and what priorities they should be given. But looking at the problem of the pig industry in Australia as a whole and what we know from past experience, it is quite obvious that the productive efficiency of piggeries is relatively poor compared with overseas standards. Therefore we have those standards as a goal. This does not mean that we will reach overnight the very high standards of productive efficiency in, say, Denmark, the Netherlands or parts of the United States, but it does allow us to have a goal which we can aim to achieve over a period of time. Research work already shows that each sow has approximately 1.5 litters annually. The number of piglets born each year can obviously be increased significantly. 
One of the most important avenues of fundamental and applied research in the pig industry is in regard to disease. I think 
Australia has made tremendous advances in this field in recent years. As I said before, there has been a marked change in the pattern of pig production in Australia. In fact 'pig' used to be a dirty word. We used to think of pigs being raised in a pigsty, and the pigsty was regarded as a place to be avoided if possible. Today pigs are raised on grain in immaculately kept piggeries in some parts of Australia. In fact the mating and farrowing facilities for some pigs are better than the housing of some humans. This is good. After all why should they not have decent housing? As has been shown in America, one of the most significant variables in relation to mortality is inefficient mating and farrowing facilities. I am. very pleased to see that the commercial pig owners are now devoting a great deal of attention to improving facilities for management and husbandry based on principles which they know to be correct because they have been proven in other countries as well as in Australia. 
There is a great need for research into feeding. As I said before, 70 per cent to 80 per cent of costs of pig meat production are in the feeding. 1 was amazed, when 1 studied in America, by the tremendous commercial efficiency of pig producers in the Mid-West. In fact most of their feeding programmes are worked out by computers. The best mixes and most of their profit variables in relation to those mixes are worked out by computers. The information is fed into the computers at the Universities of Iowa and Illinois. A farmer might ring up and say: 'What is the best mix to use under present prices?' He would get an answer within a matter of  hours,  lt might include all the protein values, whatever it might be, but those cost facilities were there. This illustrates that there is considerable scope for feeding research in Australia. 
Another avenue of research is breeding stock and culling. In the area of north Queensland that I represent there must be some of the worst pigs in Australia. Most of them seem to be half wild or wild pigs. In fact if a person wants to get a pig for his lunch he goes out into the bush and spends a few hours finding one and catching it. I can tell honourable members that they are pretty tough to eat. 
Yes. Of course this is not the standard I am talking about when discussing this Bill. Certainly there has been a great improvement in pig standards in recent years. Surely the principles that apply to animal husbandry in regard to cattle apply also to pig husbandry. We must have good breeding stock and sound animal husbandry principles in regard to culling. The objective is the same - to get the maximum possible turnoff per annum. A man who can market  18  pigs per sow per year is financially better off than one who can market only  12. 
-I am quoting levels that have been achieved in Australia and 
Certainly in other parts of the world. Maxi mum turnoff and minimum mortality are matters on which the research people, under this Bill, will obviously give a lead to the industry. My time is almost up. The Opposition will move the same amendments and go through the same motions, though perhaps for not as long, with regard to penalties. Here we have exactly the same amendments regarding averment and the 5 year provisions relating to the commencement of prosecutions. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Robinson)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Does he, like his predecessor, the present Minister for Trade and Industry, recognise the Australian Wool Industry Conference as being fully qualified to speak on behalf of the wool growers of Australia and with the full backing of the wool industry in general. 
Tonight I wish to refer to a problem which I believe without doubt will bc a major one in future years. I refer to the remarkable achievements of science in the field of technology in producing substitutes for foodstuffs. I refer specifically to synthetic meats. I would consider that the greatest potential threat to the Australian cattle industry is not lost markets, a drop in demand or a change in dietary habits to other natural foods but the technological development of substitutes. In the post-war years we have seen what synthetic fibres have done to the Australian wool industry. We have seen also the development of substitutes for butter. I refer particularly to margarine. Now we are seeing remarkable achievements in the field of technology in producing substitutes for meat. The present position is analogous to the position many years ago when synthetic textiles were introduced. Honourable members will recall that wool industry leaders treated with the utmost scorn and contempt the suggestion that there was any chance of synthetic fibres ever making large inroads into the wool industry. This was at a time when synthetics were in their infancy. A similar analogy can be drawn now in relation to the production of synthetic meats. I believe that the cattle industry should heed very strongly the lessons to be learned from the wool industry. 
At present Japan, the United States of America and Europe are concentrating an increasing amount of resources on the production of synthetic or simulated meat. In the main, soya bean and, to a growing degree, particularly in Japan, wheat are being used in the manufacture of simulated or artificial meats. Soya bean has the 10 major elements and the essential amino acids, with the exception of the sulphur acids. Scientists have been able to replace the sulphur acids, thus overcoming any problems that might have arisen due to their absence. Science is now developing artificial proteins. Whereas the soya bean protein is extracted from plant material, science is now developing artificial proteins by biochemical means by the application of carbohydrates and hydrocarbons. This research work is a tremendous potential threat to the manufacturer of foodstuffs. 
The microbiological proteins or the artificial proteins have a fermentation basis. For example, yeast grows as a culture on petroleum products, such as natural gas and heavy natural gas. To give the House some idea of the way it can be manufactured in terms of density of weight, 1 lb of culture can double in weight in a matter of hours and in a day it can weigh 2 tons. This is an indication of the tremendous microbiological scope in the manufacture of artificial proteins. There are also the bacterial proteins, which grow on such substrates as cellulose methane, and the fungal proteins which grow on the culture generated carbohydrates. All of these scientific achievements in this field are aimed at the production of synthetic meats. Because of its high protein content - up to 96 per cent - the soya bean is by far the best of the edible fibres in terms of selling power. The protein concentrates I have mentioned are being used successfully at present as an additive to meat products. It is from there on that I see the danger. 
Judging from the relative prices and, of course, the high protein it would appear that the soya bean isolates are the best. The production of simulated meats is now being extended into the actual cuts of beef, particularly in Japan. These protein concentrates, by scientific methods of thermoplastic extrusion, by which they can be divided and spun like nylon threads into a texture, and by dividing with proteins such as the white of an egg, which are coagulated protein, can be shaped and moulded into a product which resembles almost perfectly any cut of meat except ones with a bone in it. I have no doubt that it will be possible to simulate the bones if necessary. As these proteins are being manufactured into simulated meats the scientists are adding the deficiencies in terms of the elements. For example, they are adding artificial fats, artificial flavour and artificial colouring. They are also adding suitable nutrient qualities. The end product is one which, in terms of appearance, is basically the same. Science has shown that it is very hard to tell the difference between simulated and real meats as far as the cheaper cuts are concerned, especially if they are used in stews, curries, hamburgers or as mince or something like that. When it comes to the higher priced cuts of meat, such as fillet and rump steak or sirloin roasts, there is apparently a basic difference with respect to palatability, but the scientists are working on this problem. Europe, the United States of America and Japan are the 3 main producers and consumers of simulated meats. There is a growing market at the present time in the United States in the institutions - hospitals, hotels, restaurants, cafes and so forth - for this type of meat. This is principally in relation to the cheaper types of simulated meat as distinct from the more refined cuts. 
It is only in the last 2 or 3 years that this process has been developed. It is obvious that, as with the development of synthetic fibres, there will be a time lag. The initial response from the public to simulated meat has to be gauged, particularly as I say, in countries like Japan. If the response is favourable enough the scientist really gets to work as he did with synthetic wool fibres. One of the great, selling points with simulated meats is that the scientist has been able to develop a product which has a higher protein content and a lower fat content than natural meats. In a dietconscious, health-conscious world, and particularly in the higher standard of living countries, this is a point which is, influencing people in buying the meat. As far as the other comparisons are concerned, in terms of texture the scientist has developed and is developing simulated meat which has approximately the same nutritive value as natural meat. The chewing quality is something which is hard to substitute, because there is such a tremendous difference between chewing qualities of different types of steaks. One of the advantages of simulated meat, in fact, is its uniformity. But it is in the field of palatability that the scientist has still not been able to solve the problem. The higher priced cuts such as fillet and rump steak have without doubt a better palatability factor than the simulated meats. But there is no doubt that the scientist will solve this problem also. I mention this matter to the House because I feel that the Australian cattle industry has to give it more thought. We cannot be complacent. Science is developing at a rapid rate today in the field of technology and simulated meats. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This debate is interesting and most important. I would like to comment briefly on a couple of points made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  He reduced the problem to its simplest terms by making a plea to the Australian work force not to strike and not to engage in silly arguments, as he calls them. I would not challenge in any way his argument about the need for an increase in national productivity and a greater share of the increased cake going to labour. But I take issue with him over his motive for saying that workers should not strike. The corollary is that: men should work without striking and rely on the good offices of their employer to reward them for their work. History has shown - from the industrial revolution onwards - that workers have to strive to get increased wages and increased compensation when their standard of living is reduced. That is the basic difference between the philosophies of the Liberal Parly and the Labor Party. It is the hard core or nucleus of this problem. The honourable member for Wakefield would like to see a greater share of the national cake going to capital, whereas the Labor Party would like to see a greater share going to labour. Those are the extreme views. 
I said that that was what the honourable member for Wakefield was arguing about. 
I listened carefully. I will repeat, the basic philosophical difference about the amounts which go to labour is whether we are talking in absolute or relative terms. I am speaking in relative terms. Apparently the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  does not understand the difference between absolute terms and relative terms. The basic difference in the philosophy is that if a person does not go out on strike to obtain better conditions or higher wages when his standard of living has been reduced can that person afford to rely on the good offices of his employer? Of course he cannot. History has shown that he will not get his rewards and what will happen is, relatively speaking, that any increase in the net national product will go more to capital than to labour. I agree with what the honourable member for Wakefield said about a pool of unemployment. A lot of people are still putting forward this myth and it is absolute nonsense. 
Everybody seems to speak about productivity, and what a wonderful thing it would be to increase it. No-one disagrees with this but how does one measure productivity as for example the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would like it to be measured. In fact the Arbitration Commission has challenged the Government to tell the Commission how to relate the various rewards to the factors of production which contribute to increased productivity such as land, labour, capital, marginal efficiency of capital and marginal value products in respect to increased labour inputs. It is not very difficult to be able to say that the national productivity has increased by 2.5 per cent or 3 per cent net. But how does one put a quantitative measurement on the factors of production which are responsible for the increase in national productivity? For example, what rewards are there for the labour put into production? What rewards are there for capital or management? These are the burning questions. in this debate I want to deal particularly with one point and that is the great difficulty in the measurement of components of national productivity. Members of this Parliament have for a long time referred in debates to productivity as something which can be measured without much effort involved. No-one in Australia today has been able to measure in a meaningful way the relative contribution which the factors of production have made to our increased productivity. The studies which have been made by quite a number of people have shown wide divergencies in the assumptions and conclusions. When one looks at the problem, as I hope to do in a few minutes, one can see the tremendous difficulty involved in trying to place a quantitative measurement on the response of aggregate inputs. If we were to deal with the micro-economic analysis which is the theory of the firm, we could certainly measure the rewards of the marginal returns to inputs. If we were to deal with a firm a cost accountant who is worth his salt would be able to measure the marginal rewards. He knows that if he puts additional labour in or if he substitutes capital for labour he will get a certain return and he can thereby measure on a marginal analysis the effect of the increased investment or increased labour component. When you aggregate the inputs that is when the problem of quantitative measurement of productivity changes really becomes something which no-one in this country has yet been able to measure with any satisfaction. The difficulties of measuring or forecasting in a meaningful way aggregate inputs are real and this is something on which we have to place more emphasis. 
There are two ways of broadly measuring national productivity. The first is to measure the relationship of the increase in output in regard to the work force. This method is pretty meaningless over a period of time because it completely disregards capital inputs, and after all capital inputs plus management are very important in regard to increased productivity. By using the principles of the theory of the firm, that is the micro-economic analysis, one could obtain an increase in production with a negative increase in productivity, which is the law of diminishing returns. For example a farmer may fallaciously put on more fertiliser and as a result he gets increased production but the cost of production has gone up and he has not used his resources efficiently. If you try to aggregate all of the inputs throughout the economy into the Leortief type of input output analysis it becomes a very difficult proposition to obtain a decision on how much of the increase in national productivity is earned by labour, by management, by technological change and by substitution of labour for capital. This is where we get into a whole host of problems which so far no-one has been able to solve in a meaningful way as far as being of much help to the Arbitration Commission. 
The second general measurement of national productivity is an aggregate of labour productivity which relates to groups of industries. If we had fixed assumptions, that is, no technological change, no difference in the change of capital inputs, we could get a meaningful productivity figure in aggregate terms of the return to labour from the increase in productivity. But it is unreal to argue that there can be a period of time such as one day, one year or one month when capital or technology will remain constant. That is an absurd argument to put forward. This knocks down any argument in relation to that type of measurement. In estimating there has to be an increase in the value of output per unit of money employed and it is a matter of quantifying labour, capital, management technology, land and other factors of production to try to obtain a meaningful answer. 
It is quite obvious that the aggregation of inputs and the behaviour of individual inputs, such as the substitution of capital for labour and the transferability of resources, is the real problem involved in obtaining a meaningful measurement as to who should get a greater share of the national cake. With respect to aggregation of labour inputs, for a measurement calculus one has first of all to break down the labour components into skilled, unskilled and semi-skilled labour and wage rates. This alone is a tremendous task to try to feed into a computer. Once these fixed relationships are available it is possible to reach some sort of a decision provided the relationships remain stable. However, the relationships do not remain stable because technology in relation to the skilled, unskilled and semi-skilled labour is changing all the time. Without any doubt the greatest problem in measuring the efficiency of inputs in determining increased productivity is the aggregation of capital inputs. What is capital? It is a whole host of factors relating to production inputs. In an age of great scientific discovery obsolescence has a tremendous influence on our net productivity. This can be seen in our own aircraft industry. We master a machine but within a matter of years, although it is not worn out, it becomes obsolete in terms of comparative efficiency. In itself this is a very difficult quantitative input to inject into any calculus to try to obtain a meaningful result. 
I want to emphasise the amount of work that has been done on this problem. In Australia economists have been working since the war years trying to solve this question of productivity. Federal instrumentalities such as the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Primary Industry and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics have had their skilled officers working on this problem in an endeavour to obtain a meaningful solution. They are trying to find a meaningful solution. They are trying to work out what productivity really means as a measurable quantitative figure in regard to various factors of production. I have repealed several times that they have not yet been able to produce accurate answers, 1 turn now to the substitution factor of capital for labour in respect of automation and technology or changes in relative prices, lt is not possible to keep any factor completely stable, AH one can do is form a judgment that labour gets so much of the increased national cake. If productivity is increased perhaps labour would get the same share in relative terms, but is that what we are trying to achieve? The unions are trying to gain a greater share of national productivity in relative terms. Opposing this is the philosophy of capital as to return on capital in terms of interest rates or risk capital. Capital is trying to get a greater share of national productivity. Who is right? That is the burning question. Is it labour that is contributing most to increased national productivity, or is it capital? How is this measure to be applied? There is a struggle between the elements of employer and employee, and complex problems are involved. 
I think it is true to say that in Australia today management is conducted on a higher plane than before. Let us take one firm as an example. If the productivity of that firm is increased solely by more efficient management, can labour fairly say: 'You have increased productivity in this firm and we want an increase in our wages"? Can it fairly be argued that way? Taken on an aggregate basis it is very difficult to isolate the management as a factor of production. It is almost impossible to apply a quantitative figure of measurement as it is a qualitative calculation. Yet in the determination of and movements in the aggregate value of production, which in turn leads to increased productivity, management is obviously one of the most important elements. But how is it measured or delineated? 
I want to deal with the rate of technological change, but I do not have enough time left to do that. I simply say that from studies in Australia it seems that the rate of technological change is operating at about 2i per cent to 3 per cent per annum. On the other hand, in many instances the application of labour to technology - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Mackellar)  adjourned. 
The matter of public importance proposed for discussion by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  supported by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  is one of great importance to this nation. As we could have expected, the 2 Ministers who have spoken, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  and the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  of course ridiculed this motion and treated it with some shallowness. But it is very obvious when one listened - and I listened very carefully to the 2 Ministers who spoke - where they must spend most of their time. One could liken them to the proverbial ostrich. When they tried to tell this House that there are no serious problems in Commonwealth-State finances and in local government finances I just wondered where they do spend most of their time. 
The speech of the new Treasurer was, to me, a speech of ignorance, because if he can get up and believe the things he said he is obviously quite ignorant of what is going on around him in this nation in terms of Commonwealth-State finances and local government finances. I will not spend all my time quoting examples to disprove the statements made by the 2 Ministers, but let the Treasurer go to western Queensland, for example, and make the same type of speech he has just made here. Has he ever heard of the survival group of graziers out there? One of the most important efforts they are making at present is in trying to obtain relief from local government rates, which are a basic element of local government financing. The Minister for National Development speaks with great eloquence about the trust that the people have in this Government because of the work of the Department of National Development. I will give him an example of an area where this trust is non-existent. Let him go up to the Burdekin area of Queensland and make the same speech there that he made here today. The people of that area remember the words spoken by  Sir Arthur  Fadden 22 years ago and supported by  Sir Robert  Menzies.  Sir Arthur  Fadden said: 'We will build the great Burdekin Dam project and not let it be pigeonholed in the future.' That was in 1949. In 22 years nothing has been done towards actual construction of that great project. All we have is a history of broken promises. This is the trust which the Minister for National Development says the Australian people have in this Government. As I said, let him and the Treasurer go to the areas I have mentioned. Let the Treasurer go to western Queensland and let the Minister for National Development go to the Burdekin area, and repeat the statements they have made. If they did they would be ridiculed by the people, who would have every right to do so. 
The Minister for National Development said that a great deal of information is given to the Parliament and to the people about national development projects. The people of Australia, this Parliament and 1 are still waiting to hear progress reports on the Ord River project, the beef roads scheme, the Nogoa scheme, the development in areas 1, 2 and 3 of the Brigalow scheme, the Burnett-Kolan scheme and the central Queensland power station project. Hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars of the people's money are involved in these schemes, but we in this Parliament have heard nothing in the way of progress reports on them. I believe that the Australian people are entitled to receive information. They are entitled to know whether their money is being spent wisely. This is the Government which says that the Australian people have great trust in it. What utter nonsense. However, f want to deal specifically with the problems surrounding local government financing. The area of local government and semi-government financing is grossly neglected by the Government, despite the serious and mounting problems concerning the basic development and the provision of services for the immediate and urgent needs of the Australian people. This is an important area for local government authorities, but it is a neglected area. It is the principal subject of the discussion of public importance which has been raised in the Parliament today. 
I want to deal particularly with the deteriorating financial position of local government authorities in the provincial cities and country towns as distinct from the major cities whose case was dealt with so well by my colleagues the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, and the honourable member for Adelaide. I should have thought that the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  would have spent most of his time dealing with the position of local authorities in Australia Apparently his local government area has no problems with finance, and there are no problems at all in local government areas in northern New South Wales. Not much! The great mystery of modern times is: Why do people in fact serve on local authorities and shire councils? Surely the position on a local authority or shire council must bo the worst paid and most thankless job of all. It is open at all times to continuous sniping by the people. Local authorities receive no sympathy at all from State governments and of course they have received no sympathy with respect to Commonwealth financial assistance at any time in the history of this Government. 
The worst feature of local government financing is the absence of effective machinery which can guarantee a continuity of finance to enable councils effectively to administer essential works approved by State governments. Under present conditions shire councils work out their projects. They approach the State governments for approval of those projects, then they have to enter the loan market to try to raise the funds. They are faced with utter frustration. Often their attempts to secure funds at reasonable rates of interest in order to carry out effective work for the local people are met with barriers of resistance. If shire councils cannot obtain funds, important work is nol done or, alternatively, they have to increase rates in order to try to obtain the necessary finance until in some areas - and I have mentioned one area in western Queensland - rating of the people reaches saturation point. The local authorities have no other alternative to raise revenue to carry out basic work. 
The Commonwealth Superannuation Fund lends money to foreign owned companies but in some instances it refuses to lend money to local authorities for the good of Australians. Is that right? This Government says: 'The people have great trust in us.' When local authorities cannot find sufficient money with which to carry out work they have no alternative but to increase rates in order to obtain the funds. Often they have to raise loan funds at high rates of interest. This again results in an increase in the rating structure. In the rural areas of Australia invariably this causes an increase in the cost of production. It is a case of the dog chasing its tail. 
Often when local authorities cannot raise funds it leads to an alteration of priorities in their budgets. Shire councils formulate budgets, but their planning is shot to pieces when they are unable to find sufficient funds. What else can they do? They either increase rates or try to get special funds at high rates of interest. 
The Commonwealth is shirking its responsibility. Local authorities should not be the Cinderellas of government. As far as the practical application of policy and nearness to the people are concerned, local authorities are far nearer to the Australian people than either State or Commonwealth governments. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, we need a tripartite type of government, with the Commonwealth, the States and local authorities all working together. The Commonwealth's responsibility in this field is a national one. It has to maximise the welfare of the people. It has a direct responsibility in this field. Under the policy of the Commonwealth and State governments, local authority areas are being robbed of their finances. For example, some of the most prosperous areas in Australia, in terms of natural resources, are in northern Australia, yet most of the royalties from coal and bauxite mined in these areas are going out of these areas into other areas of Australia. Certainly there is a case for this, but surely these areas, which are some of the poorer areas of Australia, are entitled to retain some of the royalties for the basic development of roads, power, education and health. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice:  ls it a fact that, when Australian merino rams were being sent to Russia from an RAAF airport, armed guards were present to ensure that these rams left Australia safely. 
Noone in this Parliament, no-one in Australia and certainly no wheat grower will be satisfied with the attempt of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to downgrade the importance of the present crisis in the Australian-Chinese wheat trade and, generally, in trade relations between Australia and China. Firm action must be taken. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I just want to clarify one point. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  accused me of attacking the former Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Anthony)  during a debate concerning abattoirs. 

 - Mr Chairman, I am amazed. We are dealing with an amendment made by the Senate to clause 11 of the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill. The Government gave its reasons for including clause 11 in the Bill and now the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has moved, without giving any explanation, that the amendment be agreed to. Not only is this an insult to the Senate, it is an insult to this House. 
It would not matter if there were none present. The important thing is that this clause was amended in the Senate and that apparently the Government has agreed to the Senate amendment and has offered no explanation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  gave in this House the reasons why the Government believed that a prosecution for an offence against this clause could be commenced at any time within 5 years after the commission- of the offence. The Opposition moved an amendment aimed at deleting the word 'five' and inserting in its place the word 'one'. This would have meant that the prosecution could be commenced within 12 months after the commission of the offence. 
When this Bill was debated in the Senate it was quite obvious that the Government would be defeated because the Democratic Labor Party objected to this period of 5 years. The result has been a compromise between 1 year and 5 years. The Government now comes forward with an amendment to make it 3 years. With due respect to the Minister for Repatriation, I would have thought that some explanation would be given to the House. The Minister does not hold the Primary Industry portfolio and therefore one cannot criticise him individually. Nevertheless I am criticising the Government. The Opposition rejects the proposal to make the period 3 years and submits that the correct course is to make the period 1 year. In general, certain principles are laid down in respect of penalties for offences. The general principle in summary offences, particularly offences not involving a penalty of a period in gaol, is that the proceedings be commenced within 12 months after the commission of the offence. The best example I can quote is the Crimes Act itself. Section 21 (1.) of the Crimes Act states: 
A prosecution in respect of an offence against any law of the Commonwealth may be commenced as follows: - 
where the maximum term of imprisonment in respect of the offence in the case of a first conviction exceeds six months - at any time after the commission of the offence; 
That is fair enough; it could involve a murder case or some other criminal offence. 
where the maximum term of imprisonment in respect of the offence in the case of a first conviction does not exceed six months - at any time within one year after the commission of the offence; and . . . 
In circumstances such as are covered in this Bill, where no imprisonment term is involved, section 21 (1.) (c) of the Crimes Act states: 
Where the punishment provided in respect of the offence is a pecuniary penalty and no term of imprisonment is mentioned - at any time within one year after the commission of the offence. 
That is exactly what the Opposition is seeking in this Bill. The reason given by the Government as to why the period should be 5 years - I suppose the same reason will be given for making it 3 years - is that what is involved is the collection of levies. There have to be inspectors and machinery for collection and the policing of the legislation, and the whole operation takes time. It was argued previously that the period should be 5 years because of the number ot inspectors involved, and the work and time involved. Now the Government seeks to make the period 3 years. 
The question the Opposition must ask is: Why are primary producers being singled out and penalised when all other sections of the community are covered by the general principles laid down in respect of the time within which a prosecution for an offence will be launched. I gave a specific example relating to the Crimes Act. The Opposition can see no reason why persons concerned in rural matters should be penalised in this way. If carried, this amendment will mean that an offence can hang over their heads for up to 3 years before any move is made by the Commonwealth. This is a type of blackmail against rural producers. The argument in favour of 5 years given by the responsible Minister in the Senate was, apparently, that that would give the authorities time to examine all cases in detail, and that perhaps they could come to some agreement with an offending producer so that a court case would not be necessary. The Minister in the Senate who represents the Minister for Primary Industry has now argued that if the period is to be reduced to  3  years rural producers may have to go to court in order to fight charges. 
This is an extraordinary argument to be put forward by the Government. One could almost say that it is a type of blackmail. The Government has said that if the period were  5  years the chances of a rural producer having to go to court were remote, but that now that the Democratic Labor Party has forced it to accept this amendment and make the period  3  years, it may not be able to be so lenient and an offender may have to go to court and take the consequences. That is exactly the argument given by the Minister in the Senate in relation to the period of  3  years. 
The main point I want to make is this: In most research Bills no time limit has been stipulated as to when proceedings will start after the commission of an offence. This idea has been opposed strongly by the Opposition over the years. Not until this Bill was presented, containing a provision for  5  years, has there been some compromise on the part of the Government. Now, because the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate was opposed to the  5  year period, this compromise period of  3  years has been selected. But why is it to be a period of  3  years? We heard the Minister for Primary Industry argue strongly, when this Bill first came before us. in favour of a  5  year period. He said that it could be no less. Now the Government has moved this amendment to make it a  3  year period.  1  would like to know why it is to be  3  years? Why not 1  8  months or  3i  years? To be consistent with the law of the land applying to offences which do not involve gaol sentences, proceedings should start within  12  months of the commission of the offence, not  5  years and certainly not  3  years. Why are primary producers to be penalised when more lenient provisions apply, in the case of summary offences, to the rest of the community? 
has correctly foreshadowed, I intend to move an amendment. I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: with the following amendment: Omit "three", insert "one" '. 
In doing so I would like to comment on the point made by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  with which he dealt at length. The argument I put up was that a primary producer should not bc penalised compared with other members of society and should not have hanging over his head for 3 or 5 years a charge which has not been proved. The honourable member for Mallee replied that it would concern only those primary producers who had committed an offence, and so why worry about them? In other words, every person whom the Commonwealth thinks has committed an offence is guilty, according to the honourable member for Mallee. I ask: What about the people who have made a mistake? What about the people who are innocent? 
I am replying to the honourable member for Mallee and saying that not all people are guilty. They are not guilty until the court passes judgment on them. The point I want to make is that the charge should not be hanging over their heads for 5 years or, as now proposed, 3 years. If the Crimes Act says that proceedings in relation to summary offences for which there is no term of imprisonment should commence within 12 months of the commission of the offence, surely it is good enough for the Commonwealth at least to honour that commitment with respect to a more minor offence. That is the main point that the Opposition makes. I cannot see why primary producers should be singled out and subjected to this lyne of differential treatment when other members of society have the right of the law on their side. 
For a summary offence the proceedings must be commenced within 12 months of the commission of the offence. That is the basic point. It has been argued that there will need to be more inspectors and more time, and that inspectors have different jobs to do. One part of the Act says that for fruit delivered up to 30th September the levy must be paid by 30th November, but if it is delivered on 1st October the levy would not be payable until 12 or 14 months time. This situation can be overcome by a simple amendment to the Act. For example, it could say that the levy should be paid within 3 months after delivery to the factory. So that is not an argument at all. The basic question of principle is: Why should primary producers be singled out and subjected to unfair treatment in terms of the general provisions which apply to the rest of the community? I have heard no argument by the Government to support this. Honourable members opposite argued strongly that the period should be 5 years but, because the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate objected, they reduced it to 3 years. The DLP agreed to the 3 years, and the Bill is back in this chamber now. Government members, without giving any reasons for reducing the period from 5 to 3 years, are now arguing in favour of a period of 3 years. What sort of arguments are these? Surely officers of the Department of Primary Industry who advise the Minister in Cabinet submissions must have given considerable thought to making the period 5 years. The Opposition objected. It said that the general law of the land should be followed and that for a summary offence where imprisonment is not contemplated proceedings should be commenced within 12 months. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  argued consistently in favour of 5 years, but suddenly because the DLP objected in the Senate the period now becomes 3 years. The Government cannot dispute that, because those are the facts and Hansard will show it. 
No. The Opposition has always said it should be 12 months. The honourable member for Cowper apparently believes that primary producers should be subjected to more severe penalties than other members of society who have committed even greater offences. I have stated basically what has been argued in the Senate and what the Opposition is arguing now. Honourable members on this side of the House believe that for a summary offence where no prosecution is involved the general law of the land should be obeyed and proceedings should be instituted within 12 months of the commission of the offence - not 5 years and not 3 years. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I preface it by saying that the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister have gone to great pains to say that the Government has never interfered with the Australian Wheat Board as far as political relations with China are concerned. I ask: Does the Prime Minister deny that in May 1967 the Australian Wheat Board delegation in Hong Kong, after negotiating a contract for the sale of 1,500,000 tons of wheat with China, was forced, on the instructions of the Commonwealth Government, to hand to the Chinese a note, after the contract had been signed, which stated that if China did not use her influence to stop the Hong Kong riots Australia reserved the right to cancel the contract? Does the Prime Minister deny that the reaction by the Chinese negotiators to this blatant blackmail was so strong that the wheat trade in 1967 was almost wrecked and the next Wheat Board delegation was bluntly informed by China that if such a provocative attitude by Australia continued China would do no more wheat business with Australia? Finally, will the Prime Minister table the relevant document containing the British-Chinese discussions in Peking on the wheat trade and the recent relevant Australian Wheat Board advice to the Government that political considerations are now a definite factor in ChineseAustralian wheat negotiations? 

 - Mr Speaker, the Leader of the House and Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has gone to great pains to defend your good self. One of the statements he made was that you have always acted with complete impartiality. Does he really mean this? Does he believe that we are all fools? After all, this is a political House and one has to look, only at question time day after day in order to get many illustrations of how, when the element of doubt is in question, the Government or the Ministers are always given the benefit of the doubt. So do not let us have this claptrap from the Minister for National Development, about the  Speaker  always acting with complete impartiality. 
The other point which the Leader of the House made was that after you,  Mr Speaker,  had recommended the suspension of my colleague the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  he 'unfortunately' - that is the word he used - had to move a motion. 1 suggest to the Leader of the House that he did not have to move any motion if he believed an injustice had been done.  Mr Speaker,  if one looks at a dictionary in order to see the meaning of the word 'unfortunately' which the Minister used, perhaps one could say that he did not agree 100 per cent with your ruling. Certainly we on this side of the House did not agree with it. 
Let me explore that matter a little. You  Mr Speaker,  gave a warning, particularly to the Opposition, in which you said that you would deal with the next person who interjected - which means out. Then you allowed the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  completely to vilify the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  to smear us and to utter words of provocation. We were supposed to sit here, while you acted with complete impartiality, and take it. The honourable member for Reid has never been one to sit quietly when an injustice is being done. He has proved that before he entered this Parliament and afterwards. That is why I say it is nonsense for the Leader of the House to say that you,  Sir, always  act with complete impartiality. If the roles were reversed, if there were a Labor  Speaker,  would I get up and say that the Labor  Speaker  always - every minute - acted with complete impartiality? Let us not be hypocrites in this matter. 

 Mr Speaker, this is a very serious matter and it gives me no pleasure to second a motion of no confidence in a person. I treat it seriously because it is quite different from moving a vote of no confidence in a Minister, who represents a part of the government, or in the government itself, because what is on trial is not the Minister but really the portfolio which he represents and administers or the government itself. When a vote of no confidence is moved in you,  Sir, it  is moved against a person because you have made deliberate personal decisions. Therefore, whether you like it or not, or whether we like it or not, the vote of no confidence is directed at you personally, and the Opposition has not done this without giving it serious thought. In fact, we were extremely upset yesterday at the way in which the proceedings were allowed to develop in this House. You,  Sir, referred  to the House as a fun House or a circus, the inference being that the only clowns in the House are on the Opposition side. My friend the honourable member for Reid pointed out where the real clown in the House was, the one who was actually damaging its prestige. and in fact making it more difficult for you,  Sir, to  carry on in your position. 
Yes, the Prime Minister himself.  Mr Speaker,  early in this Parliament - and this is the third Parliament of which I have been a member - we witnessed scenes which no doubt nobody has ever witnessed before and which we hope we will never witness again. Of course, the Opposition got the blame for them. We even had the absurd statement by the then  Deputy  Prime Minister that the police were going to be called in to control people like myself and others - police, mind you. Is this the way in which the Parliament should behave? The cold facts are that this was just the first example of the deliberate provocation that went on and on. In the end the then Leader of the House and Minister for Labour and National Service, now the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  gagged the Opposition when it was going to move amendments. Is it any wonder that the Opposition objected, and objected violently? 
I have felt the power of your position,  Mr Speaker.  I was suspended from the Parliament for several hours. As you well know, I have always maintained and will continue to maintain that I should not have been suspended as I was at that time in the heat of the moment. I interjected when a Minister was not stating facts. 1 said to him: 'You are making a lie'. Without any warning to me - I was not even allowed to withdraw the remark  -  I was suspended. 1 objected, but I was escorted from the chamber by the Serjeant-at-Arms. In a lighter vein I might say that my daughter was cross-examined at school about the necessity for me to be escorted from the Parliament by an armed guard, the Serjeant-at-Arms. I regarded this incident as serious because I take the position that no member of the Parliament wants to be suspended in any circumstances. If he is to be suspended it should be because he has committed the unforgiveable - has caused deliberate disruption and been deliberately disrespectful to you,  Mr Speaker,  or to the chamber itself. I do not believe that the honourable member for -Reid should have been suspended yesterday and certainly, in my own case as I said before, I should not have been suspended. In fact I was reinstated after I had made a statement of apology. I will say too, in support of my argument, that the former Prime Minister apologised to me, perhaps reluctantly, and said that I should not have been removed. That happened in the heat of the moment. The House got out of control and I, a member of the Opposition, was tossed out. 
What are the qualifications of a Speaker? The  Speaker  is a  chairman  - a person who conducts the affairs of the House in accordance with Standing Orders as impartially as possible. I can make a comparison only between  Speaker  McLeay and yourself.  Mr Speaker.  The record shows that  Speaker  McLeay even named a Minister. He would not tolerate many of the things that are going on at present on the Government side of the chamber. I do not know whether the Government is standing over you,  Mr Speaker,  but it is quite obvious that someone is standing over you otherwise you would not be allowing the blatant discrimination that occurs in this Parliament against the Opposition, particularly at question time when we can see it at its worst. The Opposition has moved this motion because it believes rightly - and certainly I would not have seconded the motion unless I believed it - that you,  Mr Speaker,  have time and time again exercised inexcusable bias and discrimination against the Opposition. 
Let us look at some of the facts. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  referred to the notorious occasion when the Opposition moved a vote of no confidence in the Government and you accepted an amendment which was a direct negative of the motion, thus defying every rule of debate. Time and again at question time Standing Orders are deliberately disobeyed by Ministers. Occasionally,  Mr Speaker,  you have made half-hearted attempts to stop them. You know in your own heart that Ministers are deliberately and blatantly defying the Standing Orders of this Parliament. Almost every day without fail Dorothy Dix questions, as they are called, are directed at Ministers. Some Government supporters do not engage in this practice, but it is not for me to hold any brief for them. Members of the Opposition get the impression that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  is fairly impartial in that not many of his questions are Dorothy Dixers, but yesterday there were obviously blatant preprepared Dorothy Dix questions asked of Ministers. I will deal with them presently. 
This afternoon the Prime Minister made a statement for which, in my humble opinion, he should have been pulled up immediately by you,  Mr Speaker.  In answering a question asked by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  the Prime Minister said: 'I will have to divide this very long speech into 3 parts'. That was the commencement of his answer. In other words he gave notice that he was about to make a speech. The Minister for National Development is one of the greatest offenders in this Parliament in answering questions. He gets up with a nice kindly smile on his face and makes speech after speech. You,  Mr Speaker,  know very well that this is contrary to Standing Orders, but this action by the Minister is deliberate. There is nothing wrong with a long answer if it is relevant to the question. But what happens is that it is a deliberate plot by the Government in making answers to questions long in order to limit the number of questions that can be asked. The Government gets Dorothy Dix questions from its supporters and the Opposition has time to ask only a few questions. 
Members of the Opposition are criticised by some members of the Press for not asking many questions. Up until today I had been able to ask only 2 questions. I rose in my place yesterday hoping that you,  Mr Speaker,  would give me the call, because yesterday a former Minister for the Army,  Sir John  Cramer, engaged in a deliberate infringement of the Standing Orders and the Prime Minister, fully aware of what he was going to say rose, almost rubbing his hands, and poured the bucket of hate over the Labor Party, the Leader of the Opposition and, indirectly, over myself on the Chinese question. I rose in my place. I had no doubt,  Mr Speaker,  that you knew that I was seeking to ask a question in relation to this matter of China. It was my intention to sling a question right back at the Government, but I did not get the call, despite the fact that I reckon I should have got it. My record this session is 2 questions. If honourable members examine the question list it will be seen that I should have got the call prior to some honourable members who did get the call. To me this is just another example of what is happening in the Parliament. I am not saying,  Mr Speaker,  that you did this deliberately, but I thought that some discretion would have been shown particularly as I was being aimed at directly by the Prime Minister in Dorothy Dix questions. I thought that you would at least have given me the right to sling a question back at the Government. I had a question prepared. 
In a booklet prepared by a very learned gentleman, the  Clerk  of this House, the following appears: 
An answer should be relevant to the question and should not develop into a statement. 
This also, of course, could mean that an answer should be relevant to the portfolio which the particular Minister administers. Let us consider what happened today. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  asked a question about the fact that the managing director of the Travelodge company had cancelled the bookings of South African sportsmen. What on earth did this have to do with the Prime Minister? There was no reference to this in the newspaper and it did not have anything to do with politics or with the Australian Labor Party yet you,  Mr Speaker,  allowed the question. It should have been ruled out of order immediately. The question had nothing to do with the Parliament or with the Prime Minister yet you permitted the Prime Minister to make a smart alec reply and we had to sit and take it. 
Let us examine the time available in which members of the Opposition can ask questions. I have gone to the trouble of counting the words spoken yesterday during question time and it is obvious that the Opposition occupied IS per cent of the time and members of the Liberal and Country parties 85 per cent. This does not mean that the Opposition wants 50 per cent of the time because obviously answers must be longer than questions but I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  whether 15 per cent of the time is sufficient to enable the Opposition to express its viewpoint in questions when you permit Ministers to get up and deliberately infringe Standing Orders. As the  Clerk  of the House wrote: 'An answer should be relevant to the question and should not develop into a statement'. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What additional facilities and services would be needed to establish an international airport at Townsville. 
What would be the approximate capital cost of these additional facilities. 
This Bill is a very limited one in that it has only 7 clauses in it. The Bill deals specifically with only one subject - .the construction of a small single spur railway line in the Northern Territory. This Bill seeks the approval of this Parliament for the construction of a single spur railway line from Knuckey's Lagoon to the east arm of Darwin harbour. Under the provisions of the relevant Acts relating to Commonwealth Railways there is a limitation of cost to $1.75m, which is the approximate cost of the construction of this railway, taking into account contingencies. There is not very much that one can say about this Bill other than whether the Opposition agrees with the proposed construction. The Opposition is 100 per cent in agreement with this proposal. There is no argument about that. There is not very much I can say about this Bill because even the second reading speech does not set out the main purpose of this railway line. However, the new line will obviously replace the Fort Hill bulk loading facility which will be transferred to the east arm of the harbour. 
It is an excellent idea. I agree that it is an excellent project and it is one which will certainly streamline facilities for the handling of cargo at Darwin, which is something that is most urgently required. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in its report of October last year, after having gone into tins matter very deeply, dealt with the problems .of cargo handling facilities at Darwin harbour. That Committee recommended a plan to develop the Port of Darwin and it included this proposed railway. The railway, as pointed out by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  win be constructed to a gauge 3 ft 6 in and provision is to be made to permit conversion to standard gauge at a minimum COSt. This railway line will be a spur line approximately 4 miles long. The Minister has been good enough to provide an explanatory detailed map. I think this is a very good thing with respect to development projects. I suggest that other Ministers might follow this procedure because it makes it easier to understand a project when one has an explanatory map. A small railway line will also be constructed on Quarantine Island, but from memory this is a private arrangement and therefore does not come within the provisions of this Bill, ft is very difficult to talk on the Bill unless one ventures outside its scope and you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would soon call me to order for that. The Bill simply dennes the actual route that the railway will take. It sets out the triangular connection at Berrimah and its relationship to Quarantine Island and to the causeway at South Shell Island. 
It is not often that I am stumped to say very much bat oan assure honourable members when one reads the 7 clauses of this Bill, which deal exclusively with the construction of the railway, the gauge and the route, and when one agrees 100 per cent with the Bill, as I do, there is not much one can say about it. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the telegraphic facilities available at Townsville for residents of Northern Queensland are soon to be closed during weekends. 
If so, will all residents of Queensland, other than those in Brisbane, be obliged to telephone Brisbane to lodge telegrams during weekends. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
What towns and cities in Australia have telegraphic facilities open to the general public during weekends. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
What was the total cost of televising, by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, each of the 7 cricket tests between England and Australia. 
Despite the unquestionable evidence of the growing financial crisis in the rural sector which has been available to the Government for at least the last 3 years, the Government has exhibited an incredible display of apathy and confusion with respect to this national problem. The validity of the repeated charge that the Government is incapable of providing positive leadership in rural problems is nowhere more evident than in its approach to rural reconstruction in Australia and to the need for urgent action. On 15th August 1970 the previous Minister for Primary Industry, who is now the Minister for Trade and Industry expressed the view that quick action was needed to stem the rising tide of rural indebtedness which had now reached record heights. 
On 19th August last year the same Minister announced that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics would investigate and report on the immediate and longer term need for debt reconstruction and farm adjustment. This investigation was given top priority by the Government and all credit goes to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for completing its investigation and report within 2 months. At the end of October the Government had the Bureau's report and recommendations. Six months have now elapsed. Despite the urgent pleas from State governments, from harassed industry leaders and from primary producers who are going and who have gone bankrupt, the Government apparently is still in the grip of procrastination, uncertainty and apathy. Australian Country 
Party Ministers seem oblivious of the fact that the trenchant criticism that is being directed against them by angry State governments and primary producers throughout every rural region in Australia is fair and deserved criticism. 
In Western Australia and western Queensland entire pastoral and agricultural districts face economic oblivion. With rising production and marketing costs eroding the economic heart of every export rural industry, economic strangulation caused by rising costs is now spreading into the 2 most vital primary producing industries, beef and sugar. Despite the gravity of impending bankruptcy of major sections of rural Australia, the cold fact apparently is that the Liberal-Country Party Government just does not have comprehensive policies or immediate plans to combat this crisis. At no time in the last 26 years of the post war period has Australia's need been greater than it is now for constructive policies on compulsory and voluntary reconstruction programmes aimed at progressively achieving levels of farm production in line with realistic market demand. 
Complementary to reconstruction action is the urgent need for policies to halt the insidious increase in production and marketing costs as well as the need for the immediate examination of the effects of the Australian tariff on the viability of the export rural sector. So engrossed apparently is the Australian Country Party in political intrigue aimed always at preserving its country votes that its leaders consistently refuse to take strong action on resconstruction. apparently from a fear that such action might be unpalatable to powerful sections in Country Party electorates. The Government has no modern policy on tariffs, no modern policy on progressive farm production adjustment and no policy whatsoever on the wage-price inflation which is wrecking the export rural industries. When challenged on its record of failures Country Party Ministers always resort to the same tactics of trying to put the blame on the Opposition, the unions, overseas policies, the State governments - anything or anyone as long as the spotlight is focused right away from the real culprits, themselves. Let me state one clear fact which is irrefutable. A LiberalCountry Party Government has been in control of the rural policies of this nation for 21 years, and the full blame for the incredible mess in which rural Australia has now been plunged, with a greater number of bankruptcies than at any other time, even in the great depression, must be borne not by the Opposition, the unions, the State governments or anyone else but by this Government. 
So complacent and arrogant have the Ministers become that they now ignore even the federal Parliament itself. They apparently treat this institution with some contempt. For 8 months Ministers have made utterances about the Government's proposed rural reconstruction policies and objectives. But not once have these Ministers seen fit to make a statement in Parliament on this subject. Primary producers will be staggered to learn that the Government has made not one ministerial statement in the Parliament dealing specifically with the proposed $100m rural reconstruction scheme. This apathy and complacency starkly reveal the low priority which the Government has accorded this most serious problem of debt reconstruction and general industry reconstruction. In the eyes of the Government apparently such matters as law and order as affected by student demonstrations, and the perennial Communist bogey, are far more important to the nation than the critical economic crisis that is threatening the economic livelihood of rural areas throughout Australia. 
In October last year, 6 months ago, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics officially informed the Government that at least one third of Australia's sheep producers were facing serious economic and financial problems. At the same time the Bureau warned that many wool producers, particularly those in Queensland and Western Australia, have already reached or are close to insolvency. Despite the urgency of these findings nothing positive has been done by this Government to implement a rural reconstruction policy. Is it any wonder that the wave of resentment against the Country Party has gathered such force in rural areas, particularly in Western Australia and Queensland, that even such conservative bodies as the New South Wales Graziers' Association are now openly condemning the gross ineptitude of this Government on this matter. The most telling evidence in support of the urgent need for effective rural financial reconstruction is the drastic decline in the real net farm income of sheep producers. The picture is frightening- and this is not an exaggeration. In the last 5 years the net farm income of sheep producers in real terms has declined by an average of 66 per cent in the pastoral zone, by 55 per cent in the wheat-sheep zone and by 23 per cent in the high rainfall areas. Translating these percentages into comparative levels of real income, over the last 5 years we see that a net income of, for example, $5,000 5 years ago has now been reduced to $1,670 in the pastoral zone, $2,250 in the wheat-sheep zone and $3,850 in the high rainfall areas. Of course, 1971 will be worse because wool prices have worsened and costs have increased. 
Certainly, the financial position of the sheep industry in the pastoral zone has been affected by periodic droughts. Western Queensland, of course, has been devastated. But because of the inability of sheep producers in the pastoral zones - that is in the arid and semi-arid areas - to increase productivity, due simply to the technological constraints placed on increased carrying capacity, or the various physical factors associated with increased productivity, the economic position of a large proportion - perhaps almost all - of the producers in the pastoral zone can only be regarded as hopeless under existing levels of wool prices and levels of production costs. 
Let us look very carefully at the current position of wool prices and costs. Firstly, we must take a pessimistic view of future wool prices. We can all paint a picture indicating that wool prices will go up but I think that in this case we will be far wiser to take a pessimistic view. The relationship of production, consumption and prices of synthetics versus wool offers sufficient evidence to conclude that in the near future there is little hope of any significant increase in wool prices, certainly in real terms. Secondly, we must also take a pessimistic view on the future level of farm costs in Australia. I have stated my views in this House on several occasions, but let me quote the Bureau of Agricultural Economics - the Commonwealth's top agricul tural economic authority. It has officially informed the Government as follows: 
There is no reason for expecting any significant slowing down in the rate of increase in costs and prices in the economy in future years. 
We have, therefore, the combination of low and perhaps even worse wool prices in the future, coupled with rapidly increasing costs. This is a hopeless situation for woolgrowers and for all people who rely on wool, particularly in pastoral areas, for an income. In fact, most face what could be called bankruptcy. Unless costs can be braked or reduced and unless wool prices are increased in those areas where productivity increases are severely limited, there is simply no hope for these people under present cost-price conditions. 
In a dynamic situation such as this it is deplorable that the Government has failed to inform growers of the principal objectives of the rural reconstruction scheme and how it will affect individual producers. Piecemeal and unco-ordinated makeshift policies, as has been the case with the dairying industry over the last decade for example, will only worsen the situation if this is the basis of the Government's rural reconstruction policy. Primary producers throughout Australia want the facts and policies. They want facts on the future of wool relative to synthetics, facts on the future of dairy products relative to margarine and all facts relevant to the marginal areas of Australia. I believe that the Government must give serious consideration to some measure of price control. As I have said before in this House, I do not mean price control over everything, but selective price control, giving the Commonwealth the power to intervene if necessary to stabilise the wage-price spiral in Australia. I believe that if there were a referendum tomorrow on whether the Commonwealth should have the power of selective price control the farmers of Australia would vote overwhelmingly for such a measure. 
That is right. The increase in rural debt has now reached such serious proportions that the net debt is running at around $ 1,400m. The total debt is in the vicinity of $2, 100m and approximately half of this debt belongs to the sheep industry. The latest evidence available suggests that in Western Australia more than 3,000 farmers, including 650 new farmers, are in a hopeless financial condition. I ask: Is the Government going to help these people? It is the policy of the Government which has encouraged new farmers to expand into marginal areas, to grow wheat and to run sheep complementary and supplementary to wheat. It is the Government's policy which allowed wheat producers in Western Australia to expand at an unhealthy rate and it is the Government's policy which allows farm costs to spiral at a rate which is crucifying rural producers in export areas. Is the Government going to help these people, who are now in a hopeless financial position? Long term loans at low interest rates will not help them because they have npt the capacity to service the debt. What will happen to those people in Western Australia and in western Queensland and other parts of Australia? They cannot get out of the economic and financial mess that they are in today. I shall not embarrass the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  by reading the various statements and criticisms of him or of his Government made by grazier chiefs, by State Ministers and by the Queensland Premier, but he knows what they are. 
1 want to support the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  For some weeks we have heard the rumour that the Government intends or wants to close the Parliament early in May. First of all we were supposed to finish at the end of April, but now it will be in early May. Most people who heard the date on which Parliament is  supposed to  adjourn did not believe it because frankly in the sitting time that remains it will be impossible to get through the business before the Parliament at the present time let alone get through the Bills that have not yet been introduced. What amazes me is that today the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  gave notice that he is to introduce into the Parliament this week or possibly next week one of the most important Bills in the history of primary industry in Australia. I refer to the Rural Reconstruction Bill, which will involve $100m and which will certainly be one of the most controversial and important Bills to be introduced into this Parliament. Yet apparently we are supposed to pass judgment on this Bill in several days next week without being given an opportunity to study it or debate it properly in the Parliament. It is quite obvious now that this is the Government's intention. 
It has gone about implementing this intention to close the Parliament in a stealthy and surreptitious way. First of all it has moved for the suspension of standing orders so that new business can be introduced after 11 o'clock, thus allowing the Parliament to go on till the early hours of the morning. Obviously the Government wants the Parliament to rise - apparently the rumour now appears to be correct - at the end of next week. I think that the people of Australia ought to know about the shallowness, the complacency, the apathy and the arrogance of this Government with respect to this matter. I represent 100,000 people and 50,000 electors. I do not represent them by spending 6 months in my electorate. I represent them in the Parliament, and this is where they expect me to be for most of the year. They expect me to be in the Parliament putting forward their case to the Government on behalf of the Opposition as spokesman in my particular field. I speak also for every other member of the Opposition. They want to be present in this Parliament. This is their place. Their job here is what they are being paid for. This is what the electors put them here for. 
Today we have seen the disgraceful performance of the Government in declaring its hand by revealing that the Parliament will rise, or so it hopes, at the end of next week. How on earth can it? We have so many matters before the Parliament. We are told that 29 Bills are to be debated. Goodness knows how many motions are listed on the Notice Paper. Surely there are many important matters relating to the economy of Australia which need to be debated on behalf of our constituents. Yet the Government intends to close this Parliament down in May. Obviously the Government believes that it is good strategy to close Parliament down because ministers will be able to make their statements unchallenged outside of the Parliament before we reassemble for the Budget session. 
I do not intend to go over the ground covered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who pointed out the importance of much of the legislation that is now before the House and will be coming before the House. I invite honourable members to go through these Bills, some of which have been on the Notice Paper for up to 12 months. There is the controversial off-shore resources legislation which brought forth a vote of no confidence in a Prime Minister which almost succeeded. We still have not had the opportunity to debate this legislation despite the fact that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  when introducing the legislation, said it was of great urgency. The legislation was introduced in April 1970 and now it is April 1971. We still have not got round to debating this legislation. Although all of this business is listed on the Notice Paper the Government intends to close the Parliament down. 
What must the people of Australia think of us? We are treated now with a lot of disrespect and cynicism. I can assure honourable members that we will be treated with a lot more when the people of Australia know about what the Government intends to do. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Opposition will not take this lying down. If you think, or the  Speaker  thinks, that you will have an easy ride from now on to the end of next week after 1 1 o'clock each night I can warn you now that you are making a very sorry mistake. The Opposition does not intend to sit here till 2, 3, 4, or 5 o'clock in the morning debating Bills just for the convenience of the Government so that it can have the Parliament rise at the end of next week. I think that what the Government is proposing is an absolute disgrace. 
Honourable members on this side of the House have been tricked. Two weeks ago the controversial crown of thorns starfish report was introduced. 1 moved that the debate be adjourned on the understanding that it would be debated during this session of Parliament. Obviously I did not believe that the debate would not be held before the Budget session. I have been informed that there will be no debate on the crown of thorns starfish report because there is not enough time. What are honourable members to do from the first week in May until the start of the Budget session? Of course, all of us have plenty of work to do in our electorates. But I repeat that we are elected to this place by our constituents, to earn our money by representing our electors in this Parliament as much as possible. This is something in which I strongly believe and as long as 1 sit in this Parliament I shall fight for it. 1 guarantee that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker  and  Mr Speaker,  who I hope is listening to my speech, will get a pretty rough time from me from 11 o'clock onwards each night for the rest of this session. I can assure you that I speak not only for myself but also for every member of the Opposition when 1 say that we are totally fed up with the arrogance of this Government. Closing the Parliament down in a week's time just for the convenience of the new Prime Minister and his luxury Cabinet is the last straw. The action of the Government boils down to the fact that Government supporters are not game to get up in this Parliament and debate the issues of the economy. They want to apply the gag at every opportunity. This is not the way to good government. With these few words I can assure you again that you will not have a very easy time in the next couple of weeks. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause  (2.). 
The Opposition gave its reasons for the need to reject this sub-clause when we were discussing an identical sub-clause in the dried vine fruits legislation. Basically, the reasoning was that it has always been the practice in law that he who asserts must also prove. It would seem that this clause gives tremendously wide powers to the accredited inspectors, whoever they might be, with respect to particular complaints or offences. In fact, these officers could make any averment without having to prove it until the matter went to court. I do not wish to go over the arguments again but that is the principal reason for our amendment. The Opposition submits that this clause should be deleted. 
I foreshadow that the Opposition will seek by way of amendment to substitute the words twelve months' for the words 'three years' as proposed by the amendment moved by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  This is a similar amendment to the one that was moved recently with respect to the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971. We advance the same arguments on this measure as we did when considering that Bill. Honourable members will recall that, when the Dried Fruits Levy Collection 
Bill went to the Senate, the Australian Democratic Labor Party put forward the argument that the5year period provided was too long. The Australian Labor Party argued that the period should be 12 months. The Government compromised by amending the Bill to read 'three years'. 
A remarkable thing has happened. This Bill has yet to go to the Senate, but the Minister has moved his amendment to substitute 'three years' for 'five years'. I suppose that the Minister is working on the assumption that, when this Bill is before the Senate, the DLP will adopt the same tactics as it did with respect to the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill. To save time, the Minister has moved his amendment now to alter the provisions of the Bill as I have indicated. This does not affect in any way the argument put by the Opposition. We still maintain that the period should be 12 months. 
The reason for the amendment that 1 have foreshadowed is that if we consider the Crimes Act as the yardstick in this respect, Section 21 (1.) (c) of that Act provides: where the punishment provided in respect of the offence is a pecuniary penalty and no term of imprisonment is mentioned at any time within one year after the commission of the offence. 
That means that, under the Crimes Act, proceedings in respect of such an offence will be commenced at any time within one year after the commission of the offence. Therefore, why should primary producers in Australia be severely penalised by legislation which provides that they may be proceeded against 5 years after the commission of an offence, that period to be changed to 3 years if the Minister's amendment is carried, whereas under the Crimes Act a similar prosecution may be commenced at any time within one year after the commission of an offence? 
It is interesting to note that section 21 (1.) of the Crimes Act provides: 
A prosecution in respect of an offence against any law of the Commonwealth may be commenced as follows: 
where the maximum term of imprisonment in respect of the offence in the case of a first conviction exceeds 6 months at any time after the commission of the offence. 
Let us compare in this respect an offence under this Bill with an offence of murder. the worst type of offence. It can be argued that the Department of Primary Industry has limited manpower resources and that its inspectors are engaged in duties in other areas as well as in policing laws relating to pigs and dried fruit. For this reason the Government or its delegate should have sufficient time to explore whether in fact an offence has been committed, and this may take more than 12 months. I have no argument with this sentiment at all. Perhaps the alternative is to have more inspectors, because I believe that there is no justification for penalising a section of the community, particularly when the penalty is more severe than the penalty under the Crimes Act. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  will probably speak in this debate. He will recall that we debated this point when the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill was before the House, and on that occasion he spoke in favour of both the5year and the 3year period on the ground that any primary producer would not be concerned about whether the period was 3 years or 5 years if he were innocent. In other words, it concerns those primary producers who have in fact committed an offence; in those circumstances there is no reason why the period should not be 3 years. The argument against that of course, as the honourable member for Mallee knows, is that we have no right noone has the right to suggest that these people are guilty until they are proven guilty. Therefore, such a matter should not be hanging over their heads for more than 12 months. If the Government does not have the machinery to take proceedings within 12 months it should bring into train administrative steps within the Department of Primary Industry to see that this can be achieved within that period. Quite frankly, I do not know how a provision for unlimited time found its way into other Bills dealing with the collection of levies for industry research funds. 
Yes, I accept that and I accept full responsibility for not seeing it. I assume I was in charge of those Bills at that time. It is quite wrong that unlimited time should be provided, and I hope that the Government is taking as a yardstick for the future the prescription of a definite time. The Minister said that the period would be 6 years. I am not a lawyer but I assume that under the Statute of Limitations proceedings would have to be implemented within that period. The Opposition still maintains that the period should be 12 months and not 3 years. I shall move an amendment in those terms at the appropriate time. 
The Opposition welcomes the Minister's statement and in particular his assurance that a full scale inquiry will be made into this incident. We have had some unfortunate incidents in the past. One was the incident at Duntroon; this was fully investigated by the Government and suitable action was taken. One wonders, however, how many other incidents involving cadets and training centres have occurred. There is no doubt that the family of this boy was extremely upset. To those who watched television this evening it was quite clear that the family is most embittered. However, the Opposition is fully conscious, as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said, of the ability of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force to cloud over the issues, to smooth over the issues. We saw this, as the honourable member for Grayndler said, with respect to the water torture case. Water torture, I am told, was one of the common things used at Duntroon. I do not believe that all members of the Government have the same gentle views as the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  has on these matters. Tonight the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and I had a difference of opinion. Last week in this Parliament he said: 
I know what would have happened to this woman in any other country. In Mainland China, the country that honourable members opposite have been championing tonight, she would have had her head chopped off. It is a damned pity that the Australians did not do just that very thing. 
I submit in seriousness to the Minister that not all members of the Government think as he does. What I have just quoted is the extreme view of an honourable member on the Government side who wanted to chop off the head of a woman because she was a spy. I will deal with that case later on. I want to say only this in conclusion: It is to be hoped that we will not have to wait too long before having an inquiry because, as the Minister well knows, not only is the Navy involved in this, not only is the boy involved in this, but also the family is involved. I ask the Minister to give the House an assurance that we will have an explanation before the House rises next week for the winter recess. That is what we want to know. It is no good receiving an explanation after we rise. We want an explanation before the end of next week, if that is the time at which it is proposed the House will rise. I hope that, with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  the Minister will give us that assurance. 
Tonight I wanted to reply to attacks made on me yesterday afternoon by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  Unfortunately the honourable member is away. I notified the Country Party through the Whip, which is more than the honourable member for Kennedy did to me yesterday, that I would be raising this matter tonight. Because the honourable member is absent from the House I will not say some of the things I had intended to say. I will reserve those until next week when he is here. However, I think it is necessary for me to at least put the record straight on this matter. As honourable members in this House know, we have from time to time some rough and tumble arguments in this place. - I can recall the first 12 months after my entry into this Parliament. I sat in the corner opposite the Country Party benches and I had a pretty rough time. I tried to give what was given to me. Although it was pretty rough I  can  say that I do not think there was ever anything personal in that time to the degree that any honourable members bore any malice outside this place. At least I did not and I have no indication that any member of the Country Party did either. I think that when personal attacks are made on an honourable member and when the attacks are . . . 
When those attacks are not the truth then I believe that this is quite a different matter. I do not say this was an accident. It was deliberate. What the honourable member for Kennedy tried to do to me yesterday was to somehow or another say that I was a  Dr Jekyll  and a  Mr Hyde  and that I was now a disciple of foreign ideologies. In other words, he was linking me with Communism. That was his whole objective. If honourable members read his speech they will see that this .was his objective to show that I had suddenly changed all my views and I was now becoming a Communist. This is the smear ing approach but he could not say it in that language. 
I am going to reply to his attack but I want to devote the rest of my time tonight simply to putting forward the facts. Let me say firstly that the honourable member distributed his speech to some Government members. One of those honourable members came to me and .aid - not to my face but in front of 3 other Labor members that he tore it up in disgust. 
I will say who it was when I want to. He tore up the speech in disgust. I should think that the honourable member for Kennedy would be one of the most vulnerable people in this Parliament and not one to be talking about inconsistencies in politics. The honourable member charged me with changing my ideologies, but I shall say more about that later. I do not know what hat he talks with sometimes. Before the Senate election I was in a railway camp in North Queensland when he and I were both in the Labor Party. They were voting for him because it was in Kennedy; but he was in the Labor Party! Never mind, I want to make this quite a serious matter. I speak with some difficulty tonight because I have had to change the complete tenor of what I wanted to say. 
To put the record straight I want to say that when I read the newspapers on Sunday morning I was amazed to read in the 'Sunday Mail', which is the principal Sunday newspaper in Queensland, the following statement: 
A Federal Country Party M.P.,  Mr R.  C. Katter, yesterday referred to Britain, France, Holland and Sweden as 'mongrel nations!' 
They had refused to join Australia and the United States in the Vietnam conflict, he said. 

 Mr Katter was speaking at the Young Country Party conference in Yeppoon, central Queensland. 
He said: 'Great Britain, France, Holland and Sweden - they are the greatest lot of mongrel nations in the world. 
They are the greatest culprits in the Vietnam question.' 
I did not believe it. I say that quite frankly. I did not believe that any member of the Parliament would say that. I expected to see a statement in the next edition of the newspaper, or to hear one on the air during the day, to say that he had been completely misreported, but I did not see or hear one. I made contact on Monday to see whether the report was true. The reason why I am so upset is that this happened in my electorate. Honourable members opposite would be upset if someone came into their electorate and said these things, if they were said. I made a telephone call and found that this was in fact said. The Press had put this statement in inverted commas - they are not fools - because it was highly defamatory. On Monday the 'Courier Mail', which of course is a conservative paper, said in its editorial: 

 Mr Bury, on his return, ought to do some straight talking to his parliamentary colleague,  Mr Katter,  - one of the Queensland Country Party hopefuls for ministerial rank- at least until last Saturday. 
It ill behoves a Country Party parliamentarian to presume to call Britain, France, Holland and Sweden 'the greatest pack of mongrel nations' just because their attitude of non-involvement in the Vietnam war differs from  Mr- Katter's,  or in fact, from Australia's. 
That was quite intemperate language, and an affront to some of the leading nations of the world, whose policy, after all, is their own business. 
This statement by the honourable member for Kennedy appeared in a number of newspapers. I repeat that the statement was made in the electorate of Dawson. I was beseiged with telephone requests from irate people in my electorate and others asking about this statement. I still thought that the honourable member would make some statement about it. 
When did he make a statement? I am talking about Monday. The honourable member has his dates mixed up. 
This just goes to show the mentality of the honourable member for Angas. Look at him, perched up there like some great lairising galah. 
In conclusion, I say that I asked the honourable member for Kennedy to apologise for his statement, as he should have done. However, what he has done is to try to smear me in the most crude and amateurish way. I will deal with that matter next week when he is in the Parliament. Some of the things I intended to say tonight I most certainly will reserve for next week. 
I wish to speak briefly about the misunderstanding which took place tonight with respect to the International Wheat Agreement Bill. This Bill is a most important one, but due to a misunderstanding it was not debated. The Opposition was under the impression that the International Wheat Agreement Bill would not be debated before 9.30 tonight because the Minister for Trade and Industry and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  would not be here until 9.30 p.m. Apparently this was quite wrong. There was obviously a misunderstanding and a breakdown somewhere along the line. I was at an executive meeting and my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said he thought that wheat was coming on but he did not know which Bill it was. I strolled into the House and sat down.  Mr Speaker  asked me whether I wanted to speak - I think it was on wheat. I was completely perplexed. I did not know what wheat Bill he was talking about and said: '9.30'. Then I found that this was the International Wheat Agreement Bill and it had gone straight through the second and third readings. 
The point is that this is what we were told and I am trying to make an explanation. 
We are told through the Government liaison service and our own liaison in what order and at what time the Bills come on. Not only was I told this, but also the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  When we were told this obviously we took it to be a fact. Strictly speaking, there was a mistake and I believe the mistake was on our side, not on the Government side. 1 believe that the mistake occurred through some misunderstanding along the channels which come back in a devious way to the speakers. I informed the Opposition speakers, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and others that the Bill would not be debated before 9.30 p.m. because the  Deputy  Prime Minister who was handling the Bill would not be back until then. I repeat that this was obviously a mistake. The  Deputy  Prime Minister was back at 6 o'clock or thereabouts. 
There was an attempt by the Opposition - I understand that the Government was in agreement - to have this Bill recommitted. Unfortunately the message had already been sent, under this system of ours, across to the Senate which was not sitting. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  approached the  President (Sir Alister McMullin)  who was quite willing to let the Bill come back into the House of Representatives to be recommitted and debated. I understand, however - I could be wrong - that according to the advice of the  Speaker  and the  Clerk  this was not possible. One can imagine the precedent it would set. We were told by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate that it was not possible because the message had been sent, that the Bill had already gone through the House of Representatives and could not be recommitted. That is what we were told. I understand now from the way in which  Mr Speaker  shakes his head that this is not so, that it could have been recommitted. Here again there has been a further misunderstanding. 
If that is the case, the Opposition hopes that the Bill may still come on. I certainly wanted to take part in the debate. I wanted to talk about China and a few other things which are most important to the international wheat trade. Unfortunately the Bill went through before any of us - not only on the Opposition side but also apparently on the Government side- 
Apparently the Australian Country Party did not even want to speak on the International Wheat Agreement Bill. 
Your job is to answer us? Not to make any constructive comments, but just to answer us? Something is wrong with the system when a genuine mistake takes place with an important Bill and it cannot be recommitted to the House of Representatives to be debated intelligently. Here we are at 9.35 p.m., the Parliament has closed down for business and we are told - perhaps this again is a misunderstanding - that we might be sitting until 6 o'clock in the morning on Wednesday and Thursday. Have honourable members ever heard of such a shemozzle as has taken place in this Parliament tonight? 1 cannot see any reason why this important Bill - one of the most important Bills as regards primary industry - the International Wheat Agreement Bill, and all the ramifications of it could not be recommitted and debated. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What sum has been invested by the Commonwealth in capital equipment for mining development in the Northern Territory during the last 10 years. 
What mines, with which Commonwealth facilities have been associated, have closed down during the same period. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon, notice: 
Which Australian universities are allowing graduates holding the degree of Bachelor of Veterinary Science to use the tide 'Doctor*. 
Have these universities any stated policy on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has his Department established any indices of productivity for the non-farm sector. 
If so, will he make these indices available. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Wool Commission the power to negotiate directly with governments of other countries for the sale of wool at present stockpiled under existing legislation. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the. total amount of Commonwealth loan funds made .available to the sugar industry in the last  10  years. 
What is -the total amount, including interest, which will be finally repaid to the Commonwealth by the sugar industry. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister: Will the Prime Minister give an assurance that the 
Government will never again initiate offensive political tactics to embarrass the Australian Wheat Board in negotiations with China? Where are the written facts which the Prime Minister promised me by a deadline of the middle of this week, which is noon today - high noon, if he likes - regarding the serious allegations that I made concerning the Government's most offensive policy note handed to China via the Wheat Board? Will the Prime Minister say who authorised the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to crudely attempt to interrogate certain members of the Wheat Board regarding China during the period in question? Is it a fact that, because of the insulting Australian political behaviour, China has declared the General Manager of the Australian Wheat Board,  Mr Doonan,  persona non grata? Finally, which Minister authorised ASIO .tq try to arrange for listening devices to be placed in the office of the China' National Resources Corporation in the Bank of China while Chinese-Australian wheat negotiations were in train? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 1 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Dawson from moving a motion to enable the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1971 being considered without limitation of time. 
The action of the Government yesterday in moving the guillotine, with the objective of putting a time limit on the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill, illustrates the deplorable deficiencies of the Government. I do not think that any honourable member in this House will disagree with me when I say that this is one of the most important primary industry Bills we have ever had in this Parliament. Yet this Government wants to limit the debate to 4 hours for one reason only, so that the House can go into recess some time tomorrow night or Friday morning. There is no need for me to emphasise too much why there should not be any limitation of time in relation to this Bill. We should be allowed to debate the Bill at length, to go through the agreement and schedules at length, and to cross-examine the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  or other Ministers on the Bill. Yet the number of speakers is limited. 
This is just one more example of the deliberate implementation of a ruthless policy; it is government by the Executive with absolute contempt for the Parliament and with no thought whatsoever of the members of the Parliament who represent rural electorates and who for months and months have had deputations from primary producers with respect to this very Bill. I would class it as one of the most important Bills to be considered by the Parliament, certainly during this session. As I said before, in my opinion it is one of the most important Bills on primary industry ever introduced and set down for debate in this Parliament. The Bill affects twothirds of Australia, when we consider the vast ramifications of the arid and semiarid zones, of the wheat and sheep zone, of the high rainfall zone - I am talking of wheat growing and sheep raising areas - and of the specialised fruit growing areas in Tasmania and Victoria and in certain parts of New South Wales. It affects the drought areas of western Queensland, where there are almost whole regions of people virtually moving to the coast because of bankruptcy or threatened bankruptcy. It affects people in Western Australia. 
For example, 3,000 farmers are in a hopeless economic position, according to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics; in fact, they cannot be saved by the provisions of this Bill. The Western Australian Department of Agriculture states that another 4,000 farmers, in addition to the 3,000 farmers to whom I have referred, are also in a serious economic position. This gives an idea of the seriousness of this position in Australia today. Yet we have the Government having the temerity to limit the debate to 4 hours. What I cannot understand is the complacency of the Country Party, whose members should be speaking not as I am speaking but who should have been speaking in their own Party room and condemning the Government for allowing it to put this over them. Honourable members opposite say a lot in their Party room but they do not have the guts to get up and say it here. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, are we to have interjections such as this? The honourable member for Angas who is supposed to uphold the procedures of this House, is not even sitting in his own seat. He is sitting on the front bench chewing in a way that you would know in the bush. 
The Bill before the House this evening is called  the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill 1971. It and the ancillary Bill deal with legislation relating to the pre-war reconstruction scheme. As I have said before, there can be no doubt that this is one of the most important Bills introduced in the history of this Parliament in regard to primary industry. Its consequences are far reaching. The paradox of it is that it is one of the shortest Bills that could be introduced into the Parliament. It contains only 4 clauses. Strictly speaking, the principal objective of the Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament of the execution on behalf of the Commonwealth of agreements between the Commonwealth and individual States. The actual details of the scheme are set out in the Agreement, which is contained in the Schedule to the Bill, and in the schedule to the Agreement. In summary, the total amount of funds involved at the present time is approximately $100m. It could be more or less. 
The Opposition wishes to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill bc withdrawn in order that the Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States be amended to make provision for more detailed criteria on eligibility and to ensure that every bona fide producer, within an acceptable means test, is eligible to receive assistance which will enable persons (a) to remain in primary production where it is considered, on technical and economic evidence available, that financial viability can be achieved within a reasonable time, (b) to move out of primary production where it is considered, on technical and economic evidence available, that financial viability cannot be achieved within a reasonable time and (c) to participate, with their family, in a fully co-ordinated rehabilitation programme including technical college education or at least its equivalent'. 
One might ask: What is the difference between that amendment and what the Bill attempts to achieve? The basic difference is that by this amendment the provisions of the Bill will apply to all bona fide producers within a limited means test. Under the legislation before the House there will be a very considerable number of primary producers who will be ineligible to receive any financial assistance. In the main these are the ones in a hopeless, critical financial condition. If they are lucky they will receive perhaps $1,000 to help them in rehabilitation; or if they can participate in an amalgamation or a farm build-up scheme they may receive some assistance. If they cannot qualify on these 2 criteria under the provisions of this Bill it could be that they will receive nothing. This is the principal difference between the Opposition's objective in the amendment and the Government's objective. It is possible to argue against my point on the basis of the Schedule to the Bill, which refers to the farm build-up method of operation. It says: 
None of the foregoing would prevent the Authority from purchasing an uneconomic property in advance of arrangements having been made for the property to be added to an adjoining property or properties, where the programme of farm adjustment could not otherwise be achieved. 
What this means, I suppose, is that the Authority could purchase every unsound property if it wanted to on the basis of some future possibility of amalgamation. But I suggest that this is not the objective that the Government has in mind. That is why I argue that there will be a very large number of producers, particularly in Western Australia, who will not qualify under this scheme. They are the ones who are in the most hopeless economic condition. The basic objective of the Bill, as I see it, is to assist farmers who, although having sound prospects of long term commercial viability, have used all their cash and credit resources and cannot meet their financial commitments. This is as outlined in the Bill. There are 2 broad categories of primary producers affected by the Bill. The first category includes those I have mentioned, who in the future could be viable. Therefore there is a case for helping them. The second category includes the ones I have also mentioned before, who are in a hopeless economic condition and who will receive little or no assistance. 
Let me deal with the major deficiencies in this scheme. Speaking purely from the economic viewpoint, I say that no attempt is made to recognise the deep-seated problem in rural Australia today. There is not time to deal with all of the problems, so I shall deal only with wool. The future of wool is basic to this whole scheme. According to the Schedule to the Bill, the purpose is to assist a farmer who has sound prospects of long term commercial viability. How on earth are we to establish whether a farmer in the wool industry will have sound prospects of commercial viability? I believe this is the basic problem. If anybody suggests that wool prices will increase significantly in the future he is an optimist because practically all the evidence suggests the reverse or that, if they do increase, in real terms the increase will be a negative one because increases in costs will continue. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has stated officially that there should be no decrease in the rate of increase in costs. In other words, costs will continue to increase. Wool producers, irrespective of how big they are, will eventually be put into a hopeless economic condition if the present trend of rising costs and static wool prices continues. This is particularly so of those producers in the arid and semi-arid areas; they cannot increase productivity' because the scope to do so is just not then. 
Let us look at the real problem involved in this rural reconstruction scheme. I am now arguing economically and not politically. Let us grasp the nettle. If the Government believes that synthetics will become more efficient, that costs will go up and that wool prices will not increase, what is the point in propping up producers who in the end will get further and further into debt? It would be far better to take a more progressive view and to phase these people out of production. Let us give them a chance to get out now before it is too late. The cold facts with respect to wool are that up to the present time no authoritative organisation has expressed the conviction that a state of chronic overproduction exists in the wool industry or at least amongst certain types of wool. The present Government refuses to consider this position. Most industry leaders take the view that there are many serious problems affecting the production and marketing of wool, including collusion. The Government still refuses to admit that over-production in relation to a satisfactory price may in fact be the basic cause of all wool problems. It may be a simple matter of overproduction in relation to market demand. 
I again say that I am arguing purely on economic principles. This again is taking the ruthless approach. If what I have stated is so, and if the future of the wool industry is so critical, what is the good of pouring millions and millions of dollars into an industry which in the end will sink because of the effect of synthetics and rising costs? Do we all agree with that? I do not agree with it fully. I agree with a lot of it. It is basically an economic argument. But we are parliamentarians and we have political arguments and political criteria. If we judged everything on economics and, say, a laissez-faire policy, instead of having 12 million people in Australia we might have only 3 million. We must take other welfare and social aspects into account. We consider welfare, protectionism and qualitative aspects also. Therefore we come into the field of politics. This is where we find the paradox. Are we deliberately to phase these people out of production or are we to help them to stay in production? Obviously the Government has adopted a policy. As regards wool it is going to phase out ruthlessly those people who cannot service loans and give money to others on the assumption that there is a sound future in wool. I suggest to the Minister that this Government should prepare a White Paper on the future of wool for presentation to this House. Let us not get the International Wool Secretariat or the Australian Wool Board to write it; get some competent independent authority, an international authority if necessary, to tell Australia on the best possible evidence what is the future of wool, because I can assure the Minister that producers want to know these facts. 
What I am saying about wool is just as applicable to every other primary commodity. But wool is in a worse position because there are effective substitutes for it. This is something we cannot exclude from our minds. The approach of the Australian Labor Party is as stated in our amendment. As can be seen, we believe that all primary producers are entitled to be eligible under the provisions of this Bill and not only some primary producers, as the Government says. 
Let me take one minute to explain. The Bill makes no real provision for people in a hopeless financial situation, that is those who cannot reach commercial viability. They cannot get assistance unless it is through amalgamation or rehabilitation. The chances of amalgamation, of course, depend on the tests of eligibility set out in the Schedule. They could be remote. Certainly the deliberate reduction of farms is a good economic argument. This has been possibly drawn up by economists, but the Australian Labor Party's point of view is that if bad policies have caused the present crisis the Federal Government must accept responsibility. After all the Government must take full responsibility for the encouragement of the wheat industry and the wool industry over the years, particularly when the economic indicators were showing dangers. If the Federal Government has encouraged producers in Western Australia to expand wheat production tremendously, I believe and the Australian Labor Party believes that the Government has a responsibility to help those people to move off the farms if necessary or, if it considers that they are viable, to help them. 
New South Wales did have the biggest expansion in wheat, but I would think that many of the people who expanded in wheat mostly there would not be eligible for assistance under this Bill. They were mainly the big companies and large absentee owners. I am not even directing my remarks at those people because our amendment seeks to lay down a means test. 
1 agree. They are the basic differences between the objectives of the Opposition and those of the Government. If I have misinterpreted the position 1 will be most pleased to hear from the Minister. But I have studied this Bill carefully. As I say, except for those 2 possibilities and the fact, as I mentioned earlier, that the Authority under this scheme can purchase any property, no matter how uneconomic some farmers are there is no chance of their getting any assistance under this Bill because under the Schedule they have to be able to repay loans. Paragraphs 2(b) of the Schedule, under the heading Tests of Eligibility' on page 7 of the Bill, is really the crux of the whole matter. It states: 
There is a reasonable prospect of successful operation with the assistance possibly under the scheme, the prime requirement being ability to service commitments, and to reach the stage of commercial viability within a reasonable time. 
So capacity to repay and service the debt is the major criterion - a banker's criterion. A farmer who cannot satisfy this test is not eligible unless he qualifies for amalgamation or rehabilitation. 
How bad is the position? In Western Australia over 3,000 farmers are in a hopeless financial condition and have no chance of being considered viable under this scheme. There are 3,500 to 4,500 more who are in a very difficult position and who could be eligible. In the western areas of Queensland there are hundreds of producers who will not qualify because their present debt structure is such that they just cannot service any further loans. There is only one way to describe this $100m - it is a lousy figure. I cannot understand why the Government has adhered to this figure of $100m in view of the distribution of that sum amongst the States. I think it is a disgrace. Let us consider the wool industry alone. The total indebtedness of industry is estimated today at $800m, but look at the assets of the wool industry. Its assets are estimated to be $9,500m. The export income earned by wool over the last 10 years has been about $6,000m yet all this Government can do to assist not only the wool industry but all industries is to advance $100m by way of interest bearing loans. 
It is quite obvious you have not even read the Bill. 
I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that we are all looking forward to hearing the speech of the former Minister for Defence on this subject. It will be the first time I have heard him speak on primary production since I have been in the Parliament. 
That is true; it is his main income now. I am speaking now about how bad the position is in regard to wool. The drop in the net income of wool producers over the last 4 years is estimated to be in the vicinity of more than $400m. It has dropped within a period of 4 years from $770m to $300m. If anybody says that that is not serious, he is really not looking at the facts. All that the Government has been able to find is $100m. Let us now look at the Schedule to the Bill. I mentioned before that the crux of the Bill is concerned with those who are eligible, but to be eligible they must have prospects of long term commercial viability. I ask the Minister: Who determines whether a producer has long term viability? I would like to know what assumptions are made. I have been referring specifically to wool. Who determines this question? Obviously the States do, but what criteria do they use? These are some of the reasons for our amendment. The Opposition wants to know more about eligibility because it is quite obvious from reading the Schedule that there is not a sufficient definition of 'eligibility*. When we look to the tests of eligibility set out in the Schedule, the following words appear: 
The applicant is unable to obtain finance to carry on from any other normal source. . . . 
What is the definition of 'normal source'? Is it determined by the rate of interest? We know that many primary producers today are in the grips of the back alley money lending sharks and are being forced to pay 14 per cent and 15 per cent interest. Is that a normal source within the Government's definition? After all, a lot of the hire purchase companies are simply subsidiaries of the private banking system. These are questions I hope the Minister will answer. Are hire purchase companies normal sources of lending? As everybody knows, 2 of the main beneficiaries under this Bill will be the major private banking system and the pastoral companies. They will get a major portion of their loans repaid under this scheme. 
Let us now look at what is said in the Schedule about the ability to service commitments. To my mind this is perhaps the most serious aspect in the Bill and it is the one that is being condemned throughout Australia by State Ministers. If a producer cannot service his debt he is not eligible for assistance, unless, of course, he can sell through amalgamation. Part II (3) (d) of the Schedule, dealing with debt reconstruction, states: 
Where the State legislation so provides, a protection order against any creditor who has threatened action for debt, to apply . . . 
I ask the Minister: To what States does this apply and to what States does it not apply? If there is no such legislation in the States it simply means that those who have the first mortgage can tell the authority to jump in the lake and can go ahead and foreclose on the property. This is not referred to in the second reading speech and the Opposition wants to know more about that aspect. Then there is the rate of interest. There is a very cunning expression inserted in the Schedule which I hope will be debated tonight by most honourable members. What does it mean? Part II (4) (e) in part says 
The Authority will ensure that the average interest rate over all loans made will be not less than 4 per centum per annum. 
Not less than 4 per cent could mean 5 per cent, 6 per cent, 7 per cent or any percentage providing it is above 4 per cent. What the Schedule should say is that it should not be more than 4 per cent, which puts a ceiling on it. I think this is a very grave error in the Bill. What it means is that State authorities will be able simply to make a judgment and charge varying rates of interest which is not less than 4 per cent. Similar words are used in the Schedule under Part III dealing with farm build-up. Paragraph (3)(c) states: 
Advances, at an interest rate not less than  6i  per centum per annum . . . 
In English that means  6i  per cent or higher. If the Government means that it should be a maximum of 6i per cent it should say so by simply making it read: Not more than  6i  per contum'. This aspect has to be made very clear in the House because it is a very important point. The rate of interest is crucial to the operation of this scheme. I have examined the Schedule where it deals with firm build-up. It is no good the Minister saying that its purpose here is not to say to the owner to get big or get out. Who is kidding whom? Of course that is what it means. It means marginal farmers have to amalgamate to make their properties bigger and if they cannot qualify for financial 
Assistance by amalgamating they have to get out otherwise they will go bankrupt. What the Government is saying to this category of people who have the smaller farms and whose costs are going up while wool prices are static and net cash income is diminishing is: 'Unless you fellows amalgamate and  get  big you have to get out'. That is what the Government is saying and it is of no use saying it is not. 
Let us be practical about it: There is nothing wrong with the principle of amalgamation if it will mean greater efficiency in the use of resources. The Opposition, however, does not agree with the Government on ohe point. We do not agree with getting out in the sense of becoming bankrupt and getting out by their own means. They should be helped out and not just by this miserly  $1,000  for which they may qualify.  1  turn now to Part IV of the Schedule dealing with rehabilitation. This should be one of the most important items in this agreement because it deals with the people who are going to be hurt - the farmers and their families who, under the Government's policy, will have to get out. Can honourable members find anything in the Schedule to indicate what 'rehabilitation' means? The Minister has said that it is under consideration by the Department of Labour and National Service and the State departments, but what does it mean? The only thing that is positive in this BUI is that section of the agreement which states: 
A loan on such conditions as to interest rate, if any, and repayment as are determined by the Authority up to a maximum of SI, 000 in any one case. 
I submit this argument to the Minister: What will a loan of  $1,000  do for a farmer with  2  or  3  children who is in a hopeless financial position? That farmer cannot obtain any cash or any more advances. Some doubt exists whether he can sell his property. But all the Government will offer him is a loan of  $1,000  to rehabilitate himself and his family. 
What the Opposition wishes to see written into this Bill very speedily is that such people and their children will be given the opportunity to learn a trade or be employed profitably somewhere else. Certainly the children of these farmers ought to be sent through technical college so that they may learn a trade in order to fit themselves into society. Many of these children have left school at an early age. Farming is the only life that they know. Not only is it degrading for them if they must go into the cities to try to find an unskilled job. These children are used to a way of life different from city life. They should be given the opportunity to attend a technical college and to learn a trade. Such a provision is not written into this Bill. I believe that this is one of the major deficiencies in the present agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. 
In conclusion, I say this: It is quite obvious that this Bill is not complete. Because of the time factor, it has been rushed in to the House. One needs to look only at the various sections to see this. The eligibility of people cannot be determined precisely. According to the second reading speech delivered by the Minister, it seems that the responsibility to determine who will qualify and who will not will be passed on to the relevant State. It is quite obvious that, when one reads the section on rehabilitation, there is nothing constructive in it. Yet, this section is supposed to be one of the most important parts of the agreement with the States. 
How can we be asked to ratify this agreement? We do not even know how many States have agreed to this agreement. The Bill does not state anywhere whether all of the States have agreed to it. Until a week ago, I believe that  3  States had not. Have all the States agreed to it? Have all the States agreed to the rate of interest proposed in this Bill? Have all the States agreed to the rehabilitation proposals?  1  ask those questions because I say that there are no rehabilitation proposals. Yet. we, as representatives of the people in this Parliament, are being asked to ratify this Bill. All I can say is that there  aTe  certainly some sound principles in it - do not get me wrong on that point - but the Bill does not go far enough. The Opposition wants to know what conditions will go into this rehabilitation agreement. The Labor Party is most concerned about the future of the people and their children who will be displaced from farms. If the Government has no concern for children, we have. 
Firstly I want to protest at the fact that we have been treated tonight to one more farcical display. This is one of the most important Bills affecting rural industry. Yet debate has been restricted because of the guillotine. Many serious questions have been asked by honourable members from both sides of the 'chamber but the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has not been able to reply to them. It illustrates the complete and utter farcicality of the proceedings of this Parliament when, in a debate on a rural reconstruction Bill involving at least $100m, the Minister for Primary Industry is not even given the opportunity by his own Government to answer the questions that have been asked by members from both sides of the chamber. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What has been the total acreage planted to grain sorghum at Tipperary during each of the years that sorghum has been grown. 
What has been the total amount (a) harvested and (b) exported during each of those years. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many country post offices have been closed down in the last 3 years in each of the rural federal electoral divisions. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the total value of (a) grain and (b) grain plus other items exported from Australia to Mainland China in the last 8 years, excluding 1971. 
I intend to take my time and to ask the Minister for Primary Industry questions which, no doubt, he will not be able to answer. One of the most important questions I want to ask in relation to the Schedule to the Bill is this: How many States have agreed to it?   Mr Sinclair  - All of them. 
Are there any qualifications with respect to the agreement? 
And it is a pretty important schedule, too. Does this mean that the responsible Ministers will be able to change the rate of interest? Does it mean that the responsible Ministers will be able also to change the allocation of finance between the Slates and the Commonwealth? Apparently it does. What is the point in having a schedule at all? We are being asked to ratify a schedule to an agreement that has an open-ended paragraph which provides that the Ministers apparently may do what they like. The other point I want to make is in relation to paragraph 3 (b) of Part II of the Schedule to the Bill, which relates to the negotiation of a concessional rate of interest for existing rates. Just what does this mean? With whom will the Authority enter into negotiations? Will it be with the pastoral houses or the private banking system - with respect to particular rates of interest - for loans outstanding? Does it mean that concessional rates will be granted to the farmers themselves? 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-  Order! The time allotted to debate the remaining stages of the Bill has expired. 
Question put: 
That. the Bill be agreed to and reported without amendment. . . 
What sort of a deal? The honourable member  is  the only one around here who makes deals. In all seriousness, the Government's action is just making a farce of the Parliament again. An important Bill is being introduced at 1 o'clock in the morning. When does the Government think that the executive or the caucus of the Opposition will be able to consider it - over breakfast? That apparently is what the Government expects. The Opposition will have no part of it. This is just one more example of the farce and the circus which this House has become. 
 How many? 
I move as an amendment: 
That the words 'the next sitting' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'Tuesday next'. 
The reason for this action by the Opposition is that at 1 o'clock in the morning the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has introduced a Bill which involves an amount of $4.2m. As far as I know, the Bill has not been circulated. I do not know whether anybody else has received a copy of it. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I, too, have been misrepresented in a scurrilous and cowardly fashion. Not only have I been misrepresented but so also has that excellent programme 'This Day Tonight'. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  alleged, in a question that you ruled out of order,  Mr Speaker,  that on that programme last night I made certain statements with respect to Government interference with the Australian Wheat Board. I made no such statements on the programme 'This Day Tonight'. 
The Opposition welcomes this motion, particularly with respect to the construction of a new hospital, as it might be called, in Alice Springs. Some years ago I was in the hospital at Alice Springs being treated for scurvy, and even in those times there were very serious accommodation problems. Of course, these have been accentuated greatly. The Opposition agrees entirely with the Government and the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works regarding priorities in this matter. It would seem, from what the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has said, that it will be a first class hospital. I note in passing that it will be fully equipped not only to meet the requirements of patients but also in regard to service facilities. The service facilities to be built are stores, a laundry, a boiler, a chiller house and a mortuary. It seems strange to put the chiller house and the mortuary together but this is the way it reads in the Minister's speech. The cost of the building, excluding the quarters which cost $9.7m, will be $ 11.5m. It would seem - there is no question about it following the delegations and the representations that have been made - that this building is justified in every respect. In fact, the quicker it is constructed the better it will be for Alice Springs and for the Northern Territory in general. 
Honourable members will recall that last year Parliament authorised the Australian Wool Board to enter into negotiations for the establishment of modern wool selling complexes and also, by the same Act, the Wool Board was authorised to borrow moneys for the establishment of these complexes, but the borrowings had to be approved by the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry. It could be said that the Bill is supplementary to the legislation enacted last year in that the Commonwealth Government will now guarantee the repayment of loans and the payment of interest on any amounts which the Australian Wool Board may have to borrow. As was explained by the then Minister for Primary Industry, in connection with the complementary legislation, the objective of the wool selling complexes is to streamline the handling and the marketing of wool. There can be no doubt in anyone's mind that this is a positive and constructive move because, if there is one field of the wool industry which needs streamlining, it is the wool handling and wool marketing field. 
In fact, when one compares the methods still employed with those employed50 years ago, there is little difference. The Opposition supported these measures last year and will support them again this year. From the studies made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in its surveys of wool handling techniques and the economic effects on the wool industry of various types of processes, it is obvious that there is the possibility of a significant reduction in cost if there can be an improvement or a streamlining in wool handling and wool marketing. Of course, by wool handling, I mean the actual streamlining of the number of times that wool is handled, and the placing of various types of wool in the most advantageous classifications so that they can be sold in the most advantageous way to buyers. Eventually we hope this will involve comprehensive core testing, objective measurement and, in time, presale sampling, so that buyers will be able to make purchases through samples, using specifications, without going through the very tedious process that is now characteristic of the wool industry. Therefore, overall I believe the objectives of this proposal are very sound, and the Opposition has no argument whatsoever regarding this Bill or the objectives of the complex. 
What I have said is in relation to that item only. It does not detract from anything I said yesterday on the overall question of the wool industry. Although this is a most positive move for streamlining, and for the eventual reduction of cost of bandling and marketing, one must still remember that the real problem in respect of -wool is on the price side. Despite the fact that we may be able significantly to reduce this sector of marketing costs, it seems fairly clear that the total costs of production in the wool industry will continue to rise. Again I quote as my authority the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. In the absence of monetary or fiscal measures or in the absence of positive programmes, such as selective price control, I think we must agree with the basic premise that costs will increase. To counter those increased costs we have to adopt techniques such as those envisaged in this Bill, or increase productivity on the sheep properties. 
It is quite obvious that the Yennora project is really a model; one might even say that it is an experiment. It is pleasing to note that the project has been backed by 3 Sydney brokers who, in fact, up until now, have accepted the financial responsibility for the establishment of this complex at Yennora. However, the Australian Wool Board has been closely associated with the project at all times and as the Minister for 
Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said, other brokers will be coming into this project. The complex at Yennora will act as a model for testing hypotheses in respect of other modern wool selling complexes. 
There is one other aspect of this Bill upon which I should like to comment. It refers to the financing. As the Government has pointed out, if the Wool Board has access to finance at reasonable rates of interest or even, I might say, rates which are lower than those which can be secured on the open market this obviously will be a benefit to the wool producer, because it will mean that his costs,, particularly his payments of interest, will be lower. Perhaps one of the great benefits which will be derived from the Yennora complex will be the rapid development of the pre-sale testing and objective measurement of wool. As the Minister has pointed out, the Government has made available a grant of $ 1,5m for research into these procedures. 1 think that every authority which has been connected with physical' and economic investigations of the wool industry has made it quite clear in its conclusions that we have to streamline our handling and presentation of wool for sale. We have to move the wool to and from .the wool complexes, and of course  within the complexes, in one comprehensive but fully integrated operation. 
This is a narrow Bill, in a sense, and I do not believe that I should again range all over the economics of the wool industry. I have already done that twice in the last 24 hours, and I do not see much point in doing it again, although probably it would be within the Standing Orders for me to do so. The only other point I should like to make and to stress again is that I believe that the Government has to present to the Parliament as quickly as possible a comprehensive report, preferably by an independent authority which is divorced from the International Wool Secretariat and the Australian Wool Board, on what it considers to be the truth regarding the future of wool. Too many wild allegations are being made at the present time. Some of them have been extreme, even to the extent of suggesting that wool still has a good . overall future. Some authorities or people are saying that there will be a significant increase in the . demand for wool in the future. Others paint the reverse picture and express a most pessimistic view. 
I believe that the Government has to present such a report to the Parliament. We have to have a White Paper on the future of the wool industry, because the ramifications of the wool industry are tremendous. A few years ago our export income from wool amounted to approximately $800m a year. The wool industry affects, in area, approximately two-thirds of Australia. When one considers the multiplier theory as applied to income earned- that is, to multiplying the total income earned by 2.3 or 3, because that is the number of times the income circulates throughout the economy - one can see the tremendous influence which wool has on the Australian economy. The figures I quoted yesterday indicate that the total net farm income  ta  the .sheep industry has dropped, in 4 years, by approximately $400m, and this is having a very significant effect on certain specialised sectors of the Australian economy 
I believe it is essential that we obtain more detail regarding the future of the wool industry.  1  know that this is difficult. I know that H is almost impossible to predict what wilt happen in fields which are influenced heavily by synthetics or competitive fibres; nevertheless, one can learn from what has happened in the past, particularly in the immediate past. If .one looks at the graphs which have been supplied on price ratios over the last 10 years, one can see that in this period there has been a very marked widening of the gap between the relative prices of synthetics and wool. The trend has been in favour of synthetics in the sense that synthetics have caused relative wool prices to drop by almost 40 per cent in that 10-year period, and there is no reason why one should not suggest that the gap will continue to widen. Although there has been some increase in the price of synthetics, the fact remains that when one looks at the organisation of the synthetics manufacturers one sees that it is run on streamlined, highly efficient principles of marketing and promotion, research and distribution. It is really sad to compare the efficiency of major synthetics industries, such as the acrylic industry, with our own fragmented wool industry, and I say that with sincerity. One sees the slapdash, haphazard way in which the wool industry is being forced to compete with the highly efficient and modernised synthetics industry, which is backed by tremendous amounts of money. The more the synthetics industry is able to increase production under the economies of scale the lower will be its relative cost of production. 
The wool industry will have to face tremendous problems in the future, but if we do not face them - if we put our heads in the sand - we will just fool ourselves. It is essential that we face these problems. Looking at the position from the worst point of view, it could well be that woollen garments will become a luxury type of garment. I think I have referred previously to the analogy with fillet steak. Wool by itself will always have exclusive properties. Up to the present time it has always been superior' to any synthetic fibre. But when one considers the actual competitive spirit and the techniques which are adopted in the synthetics industry, one finds that even the exclusiveness of wool is swamped in many fields by the sheer volume and efficiency of nylons and other synthetic fibres. 
Those are the main points I want to make, because this Bill deals exclusively with guaranteeing the repayment of any finance borrowed by the Australian Wool Board, and the payment of interest on that finance, for the construction of the complex at Yennora. As I said before, I can see no point in ranging again over the many facets of the economics of wool because to a large degree this was thrashed out yesterday. I finish on this note: It is essential that we have this detailed information because when we look at the matter from an overall point of view, it does not matter how efficient or modern wool complexes such as Yennora will be, if the price of wool does not increase significantly or unless the cost of production is not reduced significantly, I am afraid that modern wool complexes such as Yennora will not solve the basic and fundamental problem of wool which is a demand and supply marketing problem. 
In the early hours of today, the Opposition protested at the introduction of this Bill. Our principal reason for objection was the way in which it was introduced, and the short time given to the Oppostion to examine it, analyse it and make recommendations to the executive and to the caucus. Then, we had to consider the appropriate action to be taken in the Parliament. The fact of the matter is that the Bill was introduced, I am told by the  Clerk,  at 12.57 a.m. today. In fact, one could say that it was introduced stealthily - surreptitiously, if honourable members like - although I will admit that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  had given the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Wbitlam)  a draft copy of the Bill. 
The remarkable part of this legislation - in fact, it really intrigues me - is that the Bill, which was introduced at 12.57 o'clock this morning has as its purpose the ratification by the Parliament of the agreement between  Sir Henry  Bolte and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  That is what the Bill seeks. . We are told in the Schedule that an agreement was made on 5th May. Today is 6th May. In other, words, the agreement was made yesterday. The important point about it is this: Although we may debate whether in fact this $4.2m has been, will be or should be made available, it would appear from a reading of the Minister's second reading speech that the money has already been made available. So, I suppose that one could argue that it does not matter two hoots what this Parliament does or what decision it makes because the Shepparton Preserving Company Limited has already had access to- this finance. I find this a most remarkable aspect of the legislation. 
On 31st December, a little over 4 months ago, the crisis as the Minister termed it, with respect to this company, was fully acknowledged by the Government of Victoria and the Commonwealth to the degree that this crisis was said to be so urgent that this money was made available to the Victorian Government by the Commonwealth Government. It was not until 12.57 a.m. today, more than 4 months later, that the Government decided to let the Opposition know of this agreement. Then at 11.20 tonight we are expected to debate this Bill. 
As my good friend the honourable member for Grayndler has said, it is scandalous. In view of this I intend to move an amendment. I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  can appreciate the sentiments of the Opposition in doing so. This amendment is moved in sincerity. Certain precedents have been established here which I believe are very important. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: further progress of this BUI be deferred until a financial analysis of the five canneries in the Gonlburn Valley, Upper Murray and Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area has been completed and a report presented to the Parliament'. 
In view of the explanation given by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that not only has the Shepparton Preserving Company Ltd been involved in this matter but in fact other companies in South Australia and New South Wales also have been involved, and some advances already have been made, the Opposition is satisfied. Our principal objection to this Bill was that it looked as though preferential treatment had been given to one company as opposed to other companies. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In view of the recent establishment of Consolidated Fertilizers Ltd, what assurance do Queensland and New South Wales cane growers have that a full range of nitrogenous fertilisers will be made available to them at prices which will be competitive with world ...-A---A, standards. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government still maintain that sovereignty in respect of internal waters of Australia, in relation to the baseline of the territorial sea, is vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government still maintain that sovereignty in respect of the (a) territorial sea, (b) airspace above the territorial sea and (c) bed and subsoil of the territorial sea, is vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government on 16th April 1970 as a matter of some urgency introduce the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970 into the House of Representatives. 
Why has there been 12 months delay in debating this Bill. 
When will the Bill be debated. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the names of the poultry farmers in 49 States who, with the authority of the Com monwealth, have been made bankrupt by the respective State Egg Boards because of their inability to pay Commonwealth hen levies. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that after sequestration orders have been taken out by State Egg Boards against poultry farmers official receivers are forcing the sale of poultry farms and other assets to recoup Commonwealth levies owing to the Egg Boards. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What (a) proportion and (b) amount of Commonwealth moneys expended to date in connection with the recent emergency grant to woolgrowers has gone to the growers in Western Queensland. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the total amount of Commonwealth non-repayable grants, other than devaluation compensation, made available to the (a) wool, (b) beef, (c) dairying, (d) wheat, (e) sugar and (f) fruit industries during the last 10 years. 
What was the total value of exports of each of these rural industries during the same period. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the reasons for not informing the Parliament of the details of the Government's decision to establish a $100m rural reconstruction scheme. 
Have the States been informed of the details of this scheme. 
When will the Parliament be given some information regarding the scheme. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Australia, for some years, has been extending technical assistance to help modernise the spinning of wool and the manufacture of woollen textiles in Communist China. 
If so, what has been the extent of this assistance, and who authorised it 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Has the Public Service Board' approved of public servants who hold the degree of Bachelor of Veterinary Science using the title 'Doctor'; if so, why. 
asked, the. Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Which Ministers journeyed overseas (hiring the recent Parliamentary . recess at government expense. 
What were the names of the people who accompanied the respective Ministers at government expense. 
What countries were' Visited and what was the purpose of each visit. 
Who authorised each., journey and what was the total cost in each case. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What rates of interest were paid or are payable by (a) the Government for loans advanced by the Reserve Bank and (b) the Australian Wheat Board for moneys made available by the Government in respect of advances made by the Commonwealth to the Australian Wheat Board during each of the years 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that profits made by the Government from interest charges on loans made to the Australian Wheat board are used as an offset against the moneys paid to the Australian Wheat Board to raise the export price to the guaranteed price under the provisions of the Wheat Stabilization Plan. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many Bills have been introduced under each Ministerial portfolio during the last five years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many questions without notice have been asked by each Opposition Member during each of the last five years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Which Ministers used VIP aircraft between 1st November and 31st December 1970. 
What were the names of the passengers who accompanied the respective Ministers. 
What were the areas visited and what was the object of each flight. 
asked the Minister for 
Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the continuation of Commonwealth preferences is hindering Australia's expansion of exports to other countries. 
Has he made any estimates of net losses of revenue resulting from Commonwealth preferences. 
If so, what are the details. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What was the balance of the current account of Australia's balance of payments for each of the last 10 years? 
What funds were transferred out of Australia by foreign investors and others during each of the same years? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Why was Parliament not informed of the details of the proposed stabilisation plan for the apple and pear industry? 
What organisations and States have been informed of these details? 
How many official press releases has he made on this subject? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What was the (a) total cost and (b) cost per acre foot (yield) of all major dams constructed in Australia in the post-war years. 
by leaveThis is a matter of interpretation of the Standing Orders. I want to ask you.  Mr Speaker,  or the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  how this situation has arisen. If the Leader of the Opposition, the Minister who was in charge of the original Bill, or anyone who knew something about the Bill had not been in this chamber when this message was reported, it could have easily gone straight through. Surely, if the Senate requests the House of Representatives to take note of this mesage the Senate does not intend that you,  Sir, should  read it out and that the Minister administering the relevant portfolio should not be notified - apparently he was not notified - and that the Opposition also should not be notified. I think this raises a point which you,  Sir, and  the  Clerk  should look at in the future, because if we are not advised of these messages one can visualise a serious message - I am not saying that this is not a serious message - or a message of some content simply going through without there being any opportunity to comment on it. 

 Mr SWARTZ (Darling Downs - Minister for National Development) - by leave - 1 said that this matter had only just come to my notice, but obviously it came to my notice before the blue paper, the Daily Programme', was printed because I had to prepare the blue paper. The blue paper is the method now employed to circulate advice. It is not an official document; the notice paper is the official one. The blue paper, which has been in use over only a relatively short time, was introduced so that messages of this type coming back from the Senate and other matters could be brought to the attention of the House. It lists the order of business for the day in a more presentable form than that in the ordinary notice paper. The blue paper that was circulated today showed that this message from the Senate would be reported. These procedures are followed to try to let honourable members have the information as soon as possible. 
On the point that the Leader of the Opposition has raised, I will be prepared to move that the House take note of this message and that the debate on the adjourned motion be made an order of the day for a future date. I am afraid that I cannot give an undertaking at this stage as to the exact time at which a debate on this subject could be held, but I will be discussing this matter with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. We have yet to finalise a programme for debate on the Budget and on quite a number of Bills that are about to be introduced. Obviously the Budget debate must receive priority. 
I have much pleasure in supporting the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I wish to comment first on what the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  said about the blue sheet on which is set out the daily programme for the House. I do not dispute his statement that this matter is on the blue sheet. But all that the blue sheet says is: 

 Mr Speaker to report message from the Senate relating to the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill. 
This decision was taken by the Senate on 13th May. 1 believe that the practice of the House in future when a message of this type comes from the Senate should be that the Minister who is in charge of the message should follow the same procedure as he carries out when presenting ministerial statements. For example, when the Minister for National Development makes a statement to the House, the procedure is that he gives a copy of that statement, at least one hour before it is delivered in the House, to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  who is responsible for parliamentary business matters on the Opposition side. The  Deputy  Leader then contacts the member of the Labor Executive responsible for that matter and if necessary, other Labor members who may wish to speak on the subject, so that they may consider it. This practice has always been accepted and it has always been fair. 
I would suggest that, in future, what I have proposed might be done because, as I said before, one does not know the contents of a message from the Senate until one hears  Mr Speaker  or his  Deputy  announce the contents. It could be, as in this case, one of some importance. 
I am not particularly happy about being called upon to debate this matter today. To save the need for this debate, 1 think that the correct procedure, when one reads the resolution of the Senate, would be for honourable members to be given time to consider seriously all the ramifications involved because clearly the Senate is of the opinion that the assistance offered is not adequate. Basically, that means that the financial assistance is not adequate. We also should be given time to consider the Senate's second recommendation regarding a joint select committee. I believe that the Minister for National Development should have given an assurance that these matters would be debated on a fixed date - perhaps, in one month's time or even longer - and then we would not be debating it today. I think that this is the correct way to do it This would give the Government and the Opposition time to consider the recommendations. They are important. 
I cannot see why the Minister, in order that we should be able to consider this message, should not intervene and say that this matter will be debated on a fixed date in one month or 2 months' time. 
I now turn to the reasons for the motion seeking the suspension of Standing Orders. As the Leader of the Opposition said, Australia has periodic disasters. The motion is concerned specifically with flood mitigation in New South Wales, but there are other disasters which can occur such as fire. Recently, in my own electorate, cyclone Ada was a very serious disaster. Only last Saturday night, a tornado hit a certain small area in Queensland. T believe it was in the electorate of Fisher. Apparently, this tornado was not detected. lt struck as a storm. The area also was under the flight path of all the jets that travel over Gympie from the north to the south. The tornado was 8 miles high and, if any of the big jets had been flying over the area and suddenly were hit by the tornado, there could have been severe repercussions. It could even have been a national tragedy, These things are happening all the time. Natural events such as cyclones and tornadoes come very suddenly whereas the tragedy of floods takes a little bit longer- perhaps hours or days. The tragedy of droughts creeps on us and reaches tragic intensity. Therefore, I believe that the proposals by the Senate should be considered very seriously by this House and then debated and a determination made by way of a vote. 
This message has taken everybody - Government members as well as members of the Opposition - completely by surprise. This state of affairs is not very satisfactory. As a matter of fact, the Senate will be perfectly entitled to pass another motion condemning the House of Representatives for its tardiness in considering such an important decision. I believe that the Minister, as far as he can, should permit some latitude with respect to this request and perhaps somehow work out a form of words whereby he can give an assurance to the House that this will be debated and deliberated upon within a certain time. I am quite certain that this would satisfy the Opposition. 

 Mr swartz (Darling Downs- Minister for National Development) (4.0)  -  This motion for the suspension of Standing 
Orders relates to a message from the Senate. Reference has been made to the fact that although the blue paper circulated for the information of honourable members refers to a message from the Senate, details of the message are not known. But to obtain these details is a simple matter. Honourable members may ask the Clerks of the House for the details either before the House meets or during the sitting of the House. So, in effect, details of the message are available to any honourable member at any time. The object of the blue paper is to give notice that these messages have been received. 
The suggestion has been made that the Standing Orders should be amended so that messages from the Senate not of a routine nature may be dealt with separately. The Standing Orders do not contain this provision at the moment. Messages of this type may be dealt with automatically only if the Standing Orders Committee makes an appropriate recommendation and it is approved by the House. If the Opposition has any proposal along these lines it should place it before the Standing Orders Committee, which may then make a recommendation to the House. I suggest that if this change is desired that course should be followed. 
I want to draw attention again to the fact that the proposal to appoint a select committee was embodied in a proposed amendment to the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill 1971 and was dealt with briefly in this House. The proposal for a select committee had no relation to the purpose of the Bill, which dealt solely with flood mitigation in certain rivers in New South Wales. The Bill was used as a vehicle to propose the appointment of a select committee but the proposal was not accepted by the House at that time. The same course was followed in the Senate. The proposal could not be accepted as an actual amendment to the Bill, but it was worded in such a form that it could be debated. The Senate dealt with the proposal but did not accept it as an amendment to the Bill. However, it decided to send a message to the House recommending the establishment of a joint select committee. The Bill was passed in both Houses without amendment, but now we have a message from the Senate seeking a joint select committee. 
When this matter was raised in the House on 17th April 1969 the then Prime Minister gave some indication of the practical problems involved in establishing a national disaster fund - I think the term originally used was 'natural disaster fund'. The Prime Minister also indicated at that time that in the 3 years to June 1968 the Commonwealth had made $71m available for disaster relief and that an estimated $21m had been made available in 1968-69. Following investigations overseas it was considered that the present system-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I point out to the House that it was read earlier by  Mr Speaker.  If it is the wish of the House, I will read it again. It reads: 
Message No. 175 

 Mr Speaker, 

The Senate transmits to the House of Representatives the following resolution which has been agreed to by the Senate on 16th March 1971 during consideration of the Bill for an Act to grant financial assistance to the State of New South Wales for the purpose of flood mitigation works in relation to certain rivers, and requests the consideration by the House of the resolution: 
That this Bill be now read a second time, but the Senate whilst welcoming the proposal for the purpose of flood mitigation works in New South Wales, is of the opinion that the assistance offered is inadequate and should form part of a larger scheme to deal with national disasters and that, accordingly, a joint select committee of the Parliament should be appointed to inquire into the practicability of the establishment of a national disaster organisation.' 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the lack of public telephone facilities on the lonely main highway of approximately 150 miles between Marlborough and Sarina causes numerous delays in contacting ambulances after road accidents? 
What would be the approximate cost of providing two suitably located public telephone outlets on the highway? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
When can the Parliament expect progress reports on the (a) Ord River project (b) Fairbairn Dam (c) Burnett-Kolan project (d) Burdekin Dam investigations (e) Urannah Dam investigations (f) Brigalow Areas I, II andIII, and (g) Beef roads programme. 
What is the total amount of Commonwealth funds committed to these projects. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  maintains that the Australian Labor Party mission to China was conceived in sin. If that is the case, let  us  hope that there will be more missions overseas conceived in sin, judging from the success of this mission and the complete embarrassment it has caused to the Liberal Party and. of course the Country Party because I will be referring to wheat in the very near future. The speech of the honourable member for Bradfield represents a living example of the arrogance of this Government. It indicates why our image overseas, particularly in Asia, is so poor and why we have lost the $100m wheat trade with China. No one can tell what it will cost Australia, in terms of our economy, to regain that wheat trade. 
I will now speak in defence of the Leader of the Opposition. The way in which the honourable member for Bradfield and others criticised the interview of the Leader of the Opposition with Premier Chou En-lai in amazing. Of course, the honourable member was not there. He reads comments and the newspapers of his friends from the Press. Can the honourable member show me any derogatory comments made by any of the top Australian newsmen who were there at this interview? Can he show me that? The same remarks apply to the comments made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the absurd statements made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  when he was overseas. This is what we have to put up with. The success of the Labor Party mission has been acknowledged not only in Australia but also overseas. 
When I was listening, only 6 feet away, to the interview between the Leader of the Opposition and Premier Chou En-lai my mind wandered to how our Prime Minister would have fared if he had been sitting where the Leader of the Opposition sat. I wondered how the Prime Minister would have fared if he had been cross-examined by Chou En-lai, the leader of approximately 750 million people. Judging by the Prime Minister's pathetic performance in the Parliament on Tuesday when he was cross-examined by the Leader of the Opposition, all I can say is that Premier Chou En-lai would have rung him out that summer night, and reduced him to the status of a dehydrated rabbit. The attack by the Prime Minister, supported by the honourable member for Bradfield and others is simply a case of sour grapes. The Aus tralian Labor Party stole a march on the Government and the Government has not recovered. 
I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  whether you have ever seen a government disgrace itself so much as this Government has done by the way it has somersaulted in the last 4 months? For example, just consider the names by which it used to call China. Everyone on the Government side of the chamber called it Communist China. Do you hear that any more? Then it was Red China, and then suddenly the Prime Minister woke up to the fact that he must not use those words because the United States of America was not using those words any more. Then it became continental China. Then it became mainland China and now, of course, it is the People's Republic of China. How can the Prime Minister be trusted to give the people of Australia the facts? He maintained before the Australian Labor Party delegation went to Peking - he has maintained it since - that there was absolutely no truth in the claim that the Chinese postponed wheal purchases from Australia because of politics. He still maintains that. 
1 am not interested in what the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board told you. This is what we have been told. If, of course, the Australian Government claims that I am telling lies, it is also accusing the Foreign Minister for China, Chi-Peng Fei, and the Minister for Foreign Trade, Pai Hsiang Kuo, of telling lies. Of course, this is the mental outlook of the Country Party. What do honourable members of the Country Party care if $100m worth of wheat has gone down the drain because of the stupid and arrogant attitude of the Government? The Prime Minister still insults the people of China. He recently referred to the Chinese people as being carpet-baggers, a derogatory and insulting expression. The Minister for Shipping and Transport gave his views while overseas on the Chinese situation. He can be thankful that Monsieur Trudeau is a gentleman otherwise the Minister would have been deported very quickly. The editorial in the Age' condemned the Minister for Shipping and Transport for his absurd statements overseas regarding China. 
Let us look a little at what China thinks of Australia. It is all very well for the Government of this nation with a population of a little over 12 million people to say what it thinks of a nation with a population of approximately 750 million people. We had interviews and spoke at length with top officials concerning foreign trade and foreign affairs. We spoke with the 2 Ministers concerned and with other officials. The Chinese view of Australia was put bluntly in these terms: 
The present Australian Government is an accomplice or vassal of the United States helping to slaughter people in Vietnam while at the same time shamelessly allowing her own people to be killed and maimed in Vietnam - a country whose internal problems are not the responsibility of the United States or Australia. 
It was maintained that as each day passes and Australian troops continue to remain in Vietnam Australia's image in Asia and throughout the world worsens. The Chinese view is that the war should be ended immediately so that the people of Vietnam and Indo-China can solve their own problems immediately, without interference from the United States or Australia. The Chinese Foreign Minister's view is that the essence of United States imperialist policy, which Australia is blindly following, is to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries by openly engaging in war or by other surreptitious means under the guise of protection by stationing troops in those countries. Ministers of the Chinese Government maintain, as we well know, that the People's Republic of China is the sole legal government of China and that Taiwan is an unalienable part of China - a province of China. This is the only policy acceptable to China. 
It was made crystal clear that China is opposed to the creation of 2 Chinas. We were told, again in blunt terms, that if Australia is not clear on this there will be serious difficulties in the establishment of normal relations between China and Australia. It was made clear also that China will have, and is prepared to have, peaceful co-existence with Australia despite the. different political systems and social systems if the Taiwan situation is solved - that is, that there is only one China. Chinese policy with regard to relationships with China is that good relations cannot exist between China and Australia as long as the Australian Government continues its hostil ity towards China and tails the United States aggression in Asia. Another point the Chinese made was that the present poor relations with China have not been caused by China and therefore an initiative must come from the Australian Government. The Chinese view is that it is not possible to have normal relations with the Australian Government while the Australian Government openly supports Chiang Kai-shek, continues to establish close relations with him, opposes China in the United Nations and supports United States resolutions to exclude China. 
The 2 Chinas policy is clearly unworkable in terms of logic. The People's Republic of China will not take a seat in the United Nations if Taiwan is also represented. However, Taiwan cannot be expelled from the United Nations because Taiwan, as a country or a nation, is not in the United Nations. China is. China as a nation is already a member of the United Nations and the basic question confronting the Australian Government and the United Nations is: Which Government of China is the sole legal government of China. Is it Chiang Kai-shek's Government; is it Chou En-lai's Government? As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, Taiwan is recognised by both Chiang Kai-shek and Chou En-lai as a province of China. To admit Taiwan to the United Nations it will be necessary to secure a two-thirds vote in the General Assembly as well as the sanction of the Security Council. Thus, if the United Nations were able to get Taiwan in first, China would not go in. If the People's Republic of China were admitted first as a member of the Security Council, it would veto the entry of Taiwan. The 2 Chinas policy is completely unworkable and the People's Republic will not accept it. It has good and sound arguments as to why it should not accept it. So, of course, has Chiang Kai-shek. Both governments agree that there is only one China. 
The Australian Government must understand that principle, which is being more clearly recognised throughout the world at present. Canada recently has recognised it. An example of the serious repercussions of this 2 Chinas policy can be seen with respect to a problem which is already boiling in that area over Senkaku and Tiaoyutai islands near Okinawa. These islands are held by the United States of America at present. But the United States wants to get out of the area and get out fast, but to whom does the United States hand over the islands? Up to 1968 nobody cared about them, only map makers, but suddenly a United Nations survey found what it believes to be evidence of oil deposits under the islands. So to whom does the United States give the islands? Who claims the islands? Japan claims them, Taiwan claims them and Mainland China claims them. Who owns them? This problem must be solved. The Japanese maintain that they must be given to them. Nationalist China has records dating back to the 15th century. Mainland China agrees with Taiwan but makes the point that the People's Republic of China is, in fact, the sole and legal government of China not Chiang Kai-shek. This is the type of problem one encounters. The same problem arises with the Spratly group, lt is ruled by Taiwan; it is claimed by the People's Republic. Whom will the United Nations decide upon as the legal owner of these groups? 
Because of the Australian Government's open hostility to China the Australian people and the Australian economy have suffered. We have lost the wheat market. I will deal with this at a later date. We have lost a major wool market in China. We have lost a great steel market which only now is being developed. The wheat farmers and wool growers of this nation do not owe this Government any thanks for its ostrich-like approach to the realities of China. When it comes to the next election this Government will see very quickly what the wheat farmers and woof growers think of its foreign policy on China. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Which Ministers' staffs have telephones located in their homes, the costs of which are paid wholly, or partly, by the Government? 
What are the names of the staff in each case? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many Ministers have telephones located in their place of residence, the costs of which are paid wholly, or partly, by the Government? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many first and second division officers of the Public Service located in Canberra have their home telephone accounts paid wholly or partly by the Government? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister and refer to the critical and well-publicised pre-Cabinet meeting between himself and the  Deputy  Prime Minister on the level of the wool subsidy. Within hours of this meeting this important secret was announced throughout Australia. It was announced that both Ministers had agreed to a wool subsidy to 36c per lb. As only the 2 Ministers were involved in the incident, is it a fact that the Prime Minister arranged for the decision to be leaked? If not, who did? Within hours after Cabinet had ratified the agreed price, thus confirming the accuracy of the leak, the Press reported this Cabinet decision and the Prime Minister's 'Daily Telegraph' proudly, but blatantly, named him as the man in Cabinet who, in the words of the editor 'had sensibly limited the subsidy to one year'. I ask the Prime Minister: Is this not an example of a blatant leak from Cabinet? If the leak was not made by the Prime Minister, he must surely admit that it was a blatant leak from Cabinet. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
by leaveThe House has listened in silence and with attention to what the Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said. This is another example of hastily ill-conceived and patchwork decisions. It is heavily weighted in favour of the rich wool producer at the expense of those wool producers who need help and who have a legitimate claim to help and financial assistance because of the disastrous rural policies of this Government. The Opposition fully acknowledges the urgency of providing financial assistance to the wool industry, but it will support only a proposition which distributes government or public moneys to those producers who genuinely need help. The present proposal of the Government is a living example of the injustice and inequity of Liberal-Country Party philosophy, blatantly giving money to the rich and deliberately discriminating against the small farmer or the big farmer who genuinely needs help. I will not and I believe that my Party, the Australian Labor Party, will not be a party to giving public finance to men whose gross incomes are in the vicinity of S50.000, $100,000 or more per annum. 
Even in this House we have men who arc reputed to be millionaires, who have assets worth millions and who will receive financial assistance under this proposal. It is estimated that  Sir Philip  McBride, a great friend of the Liberal Party, would receive something like $30,000 from this proposed measure. A person who runs 50,000 head of sheep, for example, would get $27,000 in cash under this agreement. This is a tragic travesty of Liberal-Country Party deceit: Fifteen per cent of the 90,000 wool growers produce 60 per cent of Australia's 2,000 million lb wool clip. It follows that 15 per cent of the growers will receive 60 per cent of the subsidy. The subsidy will not amount to $60tn as the Government is trying to hoodwink the people into believing. It could easily be at least $ 12Om this year. 
I will make my point clear in a moment. I object very strongly to your getting the subsidy and so does every person in Australia. If you could prove that you genuinely need the subsidy, as a small producer is required to do, then I would not object. The aim of the Government is to give the small producer almost nothing. The assistance that will be given to a man who has 1,000 or 2,000 head of sheep, will be virtually nil. This will force him off the land and force his family out of wool production forever. I can only draw the conclusion that the Country Party members in this Parliament are very prosperous or they are out of touch with the rank and file traditional small producer who is being discriminated against under this proposal. I feel very strongly for them. 
I do not wish to go into personalities at all. We have seen - I think on an ABC television programme - the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  driving to his office in a MercedesBenz. 
I do not care about that. If he is entitled to a subsidy the Opposition will agree to it, but if he is not entitled to a subsidy we certainly will not agree to it. The Opposition will nol support any subsidy which deliberately discriminates against those who need assistance amongst whom could easily be some large wool growers. In western Queensland, for example, there are scores of large wool growers who need help and they are entitled to it. But I will not be a party to giving the taxpayers' money to large pastoral companies who own large wool properties throughout Australia. T am told by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  that Dalgetys has just made a $5m profit, and yet under this proposal a large proportion of the public's money (hat will go to wool growers will have to go into Dalgetys' pockets. In actual fact a large proportion of this money will be transferred straight into the pockets of the private banking sector, the pastoral houses and the hire purchase companies. That will be the effect of the present proposal. It will not give to the traditional wool producer who genuinely needs financial help the assistance that he deserves. 
I repeat the figures I gave previously. Fifteen per cent of wool growers produce 60 per cent of the clip, and 15 per cent of wool producers will be getting 60 per cent of this money. The small producer who is the backbone of the country towns and who is supposed to be supported by the Country Party in this Parliament obviously is receiving no support at all, otherwise the Party that represents him would have objected to this proposal in the party room. The Minister for Primary Industry is attempting to interject. We heard him in silence. Obviously there must be a member of the Country Party in the Chair, otherwise the Minister would have been called to order. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What steps were taken to ensure thai Australian merino rams sold to foreign countries left Australia in good health? 
How many rams have been examined prior to departure overseas? 
At what places did Commonwealth authorities inspect merino rams intended for export to foreign countries? 
From what places have merino rams finally left Australia? 
To what countries have Australian merino rams been sent? 
-- The allegation by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Australian Labor Party delegation to China, and I in particular, are responsible for the loss of the China wheat market is indicative of the miserable measures which Ministers of this Government will adopt in order to keep themselves in office. I had 3 objectives in going to China: Firstly, to find out the facts on why China had stopped wheat purchases from Australia; secondly, to see whether it was possible to get China to resume wheat purchases from Australia; and, thirdly, to examine the possibilities of expanded trade from Australia, particularly in primary products and basic raw materials. We found out the facts on wheat from the highest economic and trade policy authorities in China. To put the matter more bluntly, the assertion of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry that Australia's foreign policy or ministerial criticism of China has had nothing to do with the loss of the huge Chinese wheat market is false. Can I tell the wheat growers of Australia that if it were not for this Government's open and continued hostility to China Australian wheat would still be going to China. The entire blame for the loss of Australia's most important wheat market must be borne by this Government and noone else - not the Australian Wheat Board, not the Canadian Government, not the Australian Labor Party and certainly not myself, as the Minister for Trade and Industry claimed on television. 
China's Ministers stated that in recent years China has been forced to purchase very large quantities of wheat. In the last 10 years China has purchased 22 million tons of wheat from Australia at a cost of $US1,20Om. The large wheat purchases from Canada and Australia have been due to a food shortage in China in earlier years and they also enabled China to export higher value food products like rice which earned a net gain of foreign exchange. During this period of wheat purchases from Australia neither Canada nor Australia was given any particular priority for China's wheat because neither of those 2 countries recognised China. 
The Chinese Foreign Minister,  Mr Chi  Peng-Fei, and the Minister for Foreign Trade,  Mr Pai  Hsiang Kuo, made it patently clear that as regards trade with Australia, economics and trade cannot be separated from political decisions. That attitude was made clear. China's attitude regarding trade with Australia is and will be influenced by the policies and decisions of Australian governments. When discussing the policies of the Australian Government as they affect China's trade decisions, both the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Trade referred to the hostile political policies of the Australian Government against China. I quote the words of the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade,  Mr Pai: 
The Australian Government has consistently followed a policy of hostility to China. It has blindly followed United States imperialism and aggression. As far as China is concerned, trade, economics and politics are inseparable. Trade in wheat with the Australian Government can only  be continued and further developed if normal political relationships apply between our 2 countries. We regard the political relationship between Australia and China as the fundamental question as regards further wheat sales. Because of Australia's hostility to China it follows that such an attitude cannot but affect our trade policy with the Australian Government. 
In expanding on China's policies on the wheat trade  Mr Pai  said that because of the Australian Government's open and continuing hostility to China certain obstacles to a continuation of Australia's wheat trade with China exist. When I asked the Minister for Foreign Trade to define these obstacles he replied: 
Firstly, Australia is supporting Chiang Kai-shek and has established diplomatic relations with Taiwan; secondly, Australia has continuously opposed the restoration of China's legitimate seat in the United Nations; thirdly, Australia supports and follows United States aggression in South East Asia; fourthly, Australia refuses to recognise the Government of the People's Republic pf China as the sole legal government representing all the Chinese people, including the people of the Province of Taiwan; and lastly, Australia is collaborating with the USA to create 2 Chinas, or one China and one Taiwan and is, therefore, interfering in the internal affairs of China. 
In explaining China's relationships with Canada the Minister for Foreign Trade said: 
China used to buy more wheat from Australia than from Canada. But last year China established diplomatic relations with Canada. Canada bides by the 5 principles of mutual respect for territorial integrity and sovereignly, etc. 
He went on to state: 
At our discussions with the Canadian Minister for Trade and Commerce, Monsieur Jean-Luc Pepin, held in Peking last week, I - 
That is the Minister for Foreign Trade - informed Monsieur Pepin that if China continued to buy wheat then Canada would get first priority to supply th:it wheat. 
Those are the words of China's Minister for Foreign Trade. 
The Minister for Foreign Trade said: ' ... if China continued to buy wheat then Canada would get first priority to supply that wheat.' 
That is what  1  said, did I not? 
I apologise. The Minister remarked: 'Surely this is a logical conclusion.' As regards the possibilities of future trade, the Chinese Minister for Foreign Trade informed the delegation that if the Australian Government changed its present policies of hostility towards China then Australia would receive the same consideration and priority as Canada, but until this happens Canada has first priority to supply the wheat required by China. It must be patently obvious that to try to blame myself or the Labor Party and to maintain that Australian Government policies have nothing whatsoever to do with the loss of the Chinese wheat market is absurd and wrong. As the Chinese Foreign Ministers say: 'Politics is the fundamental question.' 
As regards the restoration of the wheat trade with China, the facts are that while in China I did everything possible to persuade Chinese authorities to alter their wheat policy as it presently discriminates against the Australian wheat grower and to resume wheat purchases from the Australian Wheat Board. I argued that if China were prepared to trade with Australian private companies like Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which comprised people or shareholders, China should be prepared to trade also with Australian wheat farmers who are really shareholders of the Australian Wheat Board. 
On the day I left Peking J was informed that consideration would be given to my request to resume the wheat trade with Australia on the grounds that Australian wheat farmers, like the shareholders of an Australian private company, were not responsible for the Australian Government's foreign policies and hostility to China. Contrary to the Deputy Prime Minister's crude attempt to blame me personally for the loss of last month's wheat sale, if the Chinese Government does decide to resume wheat purchases from Australia in the near future it will do so because of the explanations and pleas which we made to China's trade policy makers on behalf of the Australian wheat farmers. 
The recent allegations of the Minister for Trade - and this is very serious - of the alleged loss of last month's wheat sales will have been digested already in Peking. The danger now is that, because of this deceit in attempting to blame the Labor Party delegation to China and myself in particular as well as refusing to accept the real reasons why China has suspended wheat purchases, Chinese Ministers who are contemptuous of Australian Government foreign policy may now completely dismiss the extra considerations they were prepared to give to the case that Australian wheat farmers, via the Wheat Board, are distinct from the Australian Government. As China's highest policy makers are now fully informed of the role of the Australian Wheat Board and its relationship to the Australian Government and wheat farmers, it is my hope that China will once again renew wheat purchases from Australia. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has accused me of mixing politics with wheat. The facts are that Australia was incredibly lucky not to lose its wheat sales to China in 1967 when the Wheat Board introduced politics into its negotiations by handing the Chinese buying agents a threatening political note. But this was not the fault of the Wheat Board. It was instructed to do this by the Australian Government. i want to deal now with another matter. Country Party members interjected and maintained in the Parliament on Thursday that the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board had indicated that the loss of China's wheat market had nothing whatsoever to do with Australia's foreign policy or political attitudes to China. I know of no such public statement by the  Chairman  of the Wheat Board, but if he has made such a statement or has said that to Country Party members in private, he is playing a most delicate political game. I do not believe that any responsible Chinese authority on the Chinese wheat trade so informed him. 1 wish to expand on this point. Both the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry have publicly accused me of losing wheat sales to China which were to be negotiated last month by the Australian Wheat Board. Both Ministers have been publicly rebuked by a member of the Australian Wheat Board for giving to wheat growers misleading and false information and incriminating the Australian Wheat Board.  Mr A.  C. Everett, a member of the Australian Wheat Board, stated in the 'Mail Times' of Horsham on 28th July that the Australian Wheat Board at no stage this year had prospects of selling wheat to mainland China. He challenged the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry made before 1. 100 people at a meeting in Horsham Town Hall.  Mr Everett  said that the Minister told the meeting that the Australian Wheat Board was on the point of making a good sale to China but the Australian Labor Party went over there and ruined it.  Mr Everett,  who is, I repeat, a member of the Australian Wheat Board, said that that statement gives a false impression of Wheat Board activities and should be corrected. He said that never at any time was there a prospect of an Australian wheat sale to China this year. 
This whole matter of losing wheat sales to China is serious in view of the grave allegation made against me by the Minister for Trade and Industry. Someone in this Government or in other places is telling lies in an attempt to influence Australian wheat farmers and I intend to make further inquiries. I intend to clear my name following allegations made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister against me. I deeply resent the accusation that I am responsible for losing last month a wheat sale to China. It is an untruth. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister was told of this allegation by a member of the Wheat Board - and I do not believe that - who is that person? It seems to me,  Mr Deputy Speaker  that if this sort of allegation is not cleaned up, the only course to follow will be to get the  Chairman  of the Wheat Board to appear at the Bar of this House or the Bar of the Senate to inform us of the whole truth of the loss last month of a wheat sale to China. He could be asked to prove or disprove the absurd allegation made against me by the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
I do not believe that there was a wheat sale. It is up to the Deputy Prime Minister, tainly deny that I had anything to do in any shape or form with losing that wheat sale. It is up to the Deputy Prime Minister, who is to follow me in this debate, to prove to this House whether his statement is based on fact. It is not a statement of fact. His colleague the Minister for Primary Industry has been publicly rebuked by a member of the Australian Wheat Board who stated categorically that never at any time was there a prospect of an Australian wheat sale to China this year. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the rate of unemployment, financial tragedy and family depopulation has now reached alarming proportions throughout the sheep areas? Is he also aware that powerful companies, some foreign owned, are already active in many areas ostensibly waiting to pounce on large tracts of bankrupt people's land? Is it not time that the Government stopped its procrastination and wishful thinking about future wool prices and took positive action at least to hold or freeze the current position until an effective wool policy is implemented? Finally, is the Minister aware of the successful Federal and State moratoria policies adopted in the wool industry during the 1930 depression, when banks, private financial institutions and pastoral houses also had to bear some of the costs of national reconstruction in addition to the wool industry and the general taxpayers? 
The Opposition supports the motion and congratulates the Standing Committee on Public Works on its recommendations and investigations in relation to this matter. This is something which is not only badly needed in Darwin but which will give an example to the northern part of Australia, and perhaps the southern part of Australia, of what can be done in concentrated complex community colleges. This college is certainly needed in that area. There is one matter about which I am not certain and the Minister might inform me on it. Does this proposal mean that the residential accommodation is not to be constructed or has this only been deferred? 
When I saw this item on the notice paper, my first inclination was to oppose the motion. But this action would he taken wrongly to suggest that I was opposed to the procedure of reference of projects to the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works. I say that for this reason: A procedure exists whereby a reference of a work need not be made to the Public Works Committee. In a matter of urgency, the Commonwealth can proceed to construct a development project without reference of the work to the Public Works Committee for approval. The Parliament has always taken the view - and I think that it is the correct view - that matters involving the expenditure of public moneys on the construction of building projects should be scrutinised by a competent committee, that is. by a committee such as the Public Works Committee. 
I take some exception to the reference to the Committee of school building projects. I believe that both of these proposed projects are urgent, because of the definite deficiency in providing school facilities. This situation is found not only in the Northern Territory but also in other areas. The 2 schools about which we are speaking today are urgent and they should be constructed immediately. The Public Works Committee will visit the Northern Territory and take evidence on the projects. In all probability, as a result of that evidence, the plans will be improved. Evidence will be given by people who are conversant with the area and the conditions. 
It is possible that the Public Works Committee may recommend some amendment of or improvement to the plans. I know and accept that that happens. This is good practice. But the Committee when it investigates these projects takes evidence, writes its report and presents its recommendations to the Parliament. This procedure takes some months. It may take 6 months or even longer. This practice is fully justified with respect to the majority of building projects, whether they be for roads or for structures. But I think that some serious consideration should be given when there is an urgent need to construct schools, and there is- 
There is an urgent need to construct these schools. 
I do know. Does the honourable member say that no need exists to construct them? 
Is the Commonwealth so far advanced in its education system in the Northern Territory that no need exits to construct much needed schools urgently? This proposition to me is &gt;o exaggerated that I am surprised tha: the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee should make such a statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! Interjections are out of order! 
I take the point. If these projects are not urgent the arguments that I am putting forward do not apply. What I am saying is that schools are urgent. If they are urgent - and I am saying that they are urgent - surely we should not need to wait until the Committee's investigations follow the normal course of events and its report is submitted to the Parliament. Surely the pro forma is good enough for the construction of schools in the Northern Territory to proceed as soon as a Cabinet decision is taken to build those schools. However, I recall the celebrated case years ago in Darwin about airconditioning. The Public Works Committee played a major part in rectifying the obvious error regarding that matter. In view of the experience that the Commonwealth has had in constructing schools in recent years in the Northern Territory, I think that no real need exists now for costly and certainly time-consuming investigations. Perhaps I should say that relative to the cost of the project the cost of the investigations is not great, but the investigations are time consuming. If a project is urgent, it need not be referred to the Public Works Committee and its construction can proceed. 
I know that that is in the Act. This can be done. In the case of the beef roads, when I was in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics I wrote a submission recommending that particular beef roads project be not referred to the Public Works Committee because of its urgency. This Parliament, through the then Minister, agreed to this recommendation. All I am saying here is that where a necessity or an urgency exists to do something - in this case in relation to schools - we should not become bogged down in what could be called the red tape of investigation and the taking of evidence which results in the presentation of a report simply approving the project. Because the provision of schools in the Northern Territory for improved education purposes is urgent, I say that the need to construct these schools is urgent. 
-The Opposition supports the motion moved by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  From the initial investigation and implementation of beef roads- or development roads as they are now termed - this type of project has received the full support of the Opposition and the Parliament. They have been proved to be part of a development project of great worth. I was associated very closely with this project in the initial stages of its development and it gives me a certain amount of pleasure to see the progress that is being made. We are considering a part of a long term programme in the Alice Springs district. In that area beef roads have already been constructed from the Stuart Highway to Yuendumu, a distance of about 180 miles, and from the Stuart Highway to Plenty River, about 130 miles. There is a network of these roads in the Victoria River district from Katherine to Willeroo, across to Dingo Gap linking up then from Dunmarra and Willeroo; and the Top Springs to Wave Hill Road. 
In the Barkly Tableland district key links have been established from Anthony Lagoon to Borroloola, and then there is a road going into Cape Crawford. These roads are all part of a specially designed system and I do not think anybody would disagree with the conclusions reached in the early 1960s after investigations and economic evaluations were made. We have learned from experience of some of the problems. I note that the sealing of the Timber Creek to Dinge Gap Road will be only 12 feet wide. 1 appreciate the prob lems involved, including the nature of the traffic and the costs of construction. Certainly bitumen 12 feet wide is far superior economically to no bitumen at all. It has been proved conclusively that it is false economy to construct unsealed roads in the northern areas, but I am not convinced that a bitumen road 12 feet wide is good economy. I understand that the Committee gave some thought to this matter but I suggest that when the road is constructed sections of it up to a mile in length be made 18 feet wide, and the remaining sections be made 12 feet wide. A study could then be made of the effects on the shoulders of the road. 
It could be false economy to build a road 12 feet wide for road trains over 100 feet long. Their numbers are increasing and so will the need for passing and overtaking. This transport does affect the shoulders of the roads, as we all know. I fully support construction of a development road from Alice Springs to Erldunda. This project has top priority and should have been constructed long ago. I do not think anybody would disagree with that contention. It will be one of the most intensively travelled roads in the Northern Territory because it will be really a tourist road rather than a beef road. The Alice Springs district, and particularly the Ayers Rock area, is one of the two areas of Australia to which international tourists most want to go. The other is the Great Barrier Reef, part of which is in my electorate. 
The Minister is a great believer in northern development also, and he spends a considerable amount of time in the north. Beef roads are now called development roads, and I like that change. When we were working out criteria in the early days we had, of course, to confine our evaluation principal!) to the beef cattle industry. We could not evaluate, quantitatively anyhow, the effects that these roads would have on the tourist industry. I believe it is correct to suggest that the road from Alice Springs to Eldunda will in the near future be one of the most intensively travelled roads in the whole of the Northern Territory. 1 am pleased to see that this road will be sealed to a width of 20 feet. Of course, there are cattle stations along the road. I can speak only from memory but I think there would be probably 12 cattle stations, with a turnoff of between 8,000 and 10,000 head of cattle, which would be serviced by this road. I think that these figures would be near enough to being correct. However, they show the significance of this road from the point of view of the beef cattle industry. Of course, the main beneficiary in the long run will be the tourist industry. 
The other road is the Timber Creek to Dingo Gap road. I assume that someone will seal the section of road between Dingo Gap and the Western Australian border. I should have read the report but I have not done so, and I can only assume that this section of road, which is about 8 miles in length, will be sealed. I imagine that noone would be silly enough to seal the road from Timber Creek to Dingo Gap and leave the 8 miles on the other side of the Gap to the Western Australian border unsealed. 
 1 thank the honourable member for that information. The Western Australian Government will be doing it, even though this section of the road is in the Northern Territory. This, of course, is regarded as the missing link in the Northern Territory and particularly in the Victoria River district. We have other key roads from Katherine to Willeroo, from Dunmarra to Moolooloo and from Top Springs to Wave Hill. However, in terms of sealing the road from Timber Creek to Dingo Gap is the missing link. Of course, it was one of the original beef roads in terms of gravel, although it was also the missing link in terms of gravel for quite some time. Now it is the missing link in terms of sealing. I believe that it will be a significant tourist road. Already more and more people are going into the Northern Territory and the east Kimberleys. Tourists in cars and caravans are going across that way. Now that the road is to be sealed many more tourists will be using it. In particular they will be going to Kununurra and to the great Ord River project of which I know my honourable friend the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is a great supporter. 
I believe that these roads are probably some of the best possible investments that the Commonwealth can make in the northern part of Australia. Although their prime purpose is to serve the cattle industry in particular - this industry has been the major beneficiary in terms of production up to the present time - it is obvious that these roads have done  a tremendous amount of good in opening up the Northern Territory, the east and west Kimberleys and the western and northern parts of Queensland. I hope that the Government will continue with this programme. One thing that does concern me - and I hope that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  will pass this on to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  - is that the programme of beef roads is now coming to an end, not so much in the Northern Territory which is subject to a different set of decisions, but certainly in Western Australia and Queensland. As the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee emphasised before the suspension of the sitting, it is essential that planning be done so that we know well in advance the roads, wherever they may be, that will be sealed. This is essential from the point of view of economy. 
I will not say more than that except to refer again to the matter of the sealing to a width of 12 feet. The  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee might take this up again with the Government or the Minister. They might give some thought to sealing certain sections to a width of 18 feet so that the economies of sealing to 18 feet as against 12 feet can be measured. One thing that we have learned in the north is that road trains play havoc with the shoulders of 12 foot wide sealed roads, if those roads carry heavy traffic. So if the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee can do as I have suggested, I think that he will be doing a service not only to the engineers in terms of experimental work, but also to the nation in terms of showing whether we should put down 18 foot wide sealed roads rather than 12 foot wide sealed roads. That is something which a lot of people would like to know, because very few of us have the answer. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware of the announcement by Canada that China has just purchased another 500,000 tons of wheat from Canada? This special sale will be valued at approximately $20m. Do the Minister and the Government still persist with the explanation that China's decision to purchase wheat from Canada, while again completely wiping Australia, has nothing to do with political considerations or the hostile attitude of the Australian Government to the People's Republic of China? 
I understand that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  will be unavoidably absent from the chamber during this debate because of a Cabinet meeting. I would say before he leaves that I intend to move an amendment to the motion proposed by the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).  I hand him a copy of that amendment. Briefly the amendment will be to widen the scope of this statement to include all people who are unemployed as a result of the variables he has mentioned in country areas. We think the scheme should include not just farmers, the families of farmers and the work force on those particular farms or those people affected by technology, but also people who work in country towns and are out of work because of the problems in the rural areas. I do not think that the Government has the right to discriminate between people in country areas. That will be the substance of my amendment. I will elaborate on that later. 
The principal objective of the Minister's statement is to acquaint the Parliament with the Government's intentions in the field of rural rehabilitation. On behalf of the Opposition 1 would like to protest about the way in which an increasing number of these types of decisions are being taken. Obviously there will not be any legislation in this Parliament on which formal amendments can be moved and formal votes taken in respect of the various clauses which would be embodied in legislation authorising the expenditure of Federal money in the field of reconstruction and rehabilitation. It seems to me that the Government is simply going to foot the bill for a worthy principle for the country, but there will be no legislation. That is the wrong way to govern a country. Legislation should be introduced in the Federal Parliament, with or without mirror legislation in the States. 
I draw the Government's attention to the relevant Acts passed in 1935 or thereabouts relating to the various moratoria, reconstruction and rehabilitation schemes of the Federal Government. They were debated in this Parliament and then suitable amendments were moved to a number of them, and the same procedure happened in the States. Apparently the only way we can debate anything in this House today is, as I am doing now, by getting up and moving an amendment and speaking generally on the subject. But we have no right and no way to debate the subject properly as would be the case with legislation. In my opinion the proposed scheme represents another unco-ordinated decision of the Government. In relation to the policy of rehabilitaton for rural areas, which is the end result, it is a good principle. But, as we all know, such policies must be complementary and not ad hoc. 
Where is the Government's policy on unemployment in the country areas in general? Where is the Government's policy on decentralisation in country areas? Where are its policies on debt alleviation and stabilisation of incomes in country areas? We have heard a little about the socalled 36c average guaranteed price scheme for wool in the Parliament, but we still have seen no legislation on it. Where is the Government's policy with respect to the drift to the cities and the increased demand for urban housing it will create? All of these things are complementary. What we are seeing in this Parliament are hastily prepared, ill conceived, ad hoc decisions which are just not related. 1 think everybody would agree that we need a comprehensive plan and not just a set of decisions taken by Cabinet and relayed to the Parliament in this fashion. If we cannot get a comprehensive plan embracing all these things we are going to have chaos in the rural areas. 
One thing that has become obvious is the Government's policy on unemployment. If ever we needed stark truth it is now. The Government has decided to accept a high level of unemployment in this nation. The Government has taken it for granted that there will be a wholesale closing down of properties, farm businesses and rural businesses and a reduction in the rural work force. Its orthodox antiinflationary policy is to slacken the demand and deliberately create unemployment. This is a very dangerous policy for any government to pursue. Any government that takes for granted that there will be a high level of unemployment does so at its own risk. Things are quite different today from what they were before the war. Before the war, accepted levels of unemployment were about 8 per cent, 9 per cent or 10 per cent. That was thought to be a common part of the national economy. But in post-war years every worker in this nation has been conditioned to a system of near full employment. The political fortunes of a government are very closely correlated with the level of unemployment. 
This is a most explosive factor. A figure of 3 per cent national unemployment is sufficient to blast the Government out of office. The way that this Government is behaving with its anti-inflationary policies, and the fact that we are fast approaching high levels of unemployment, will blast the Government out of office even before the next election. There are many people in the country who have mortgaged their future. They have bought houses. They have bought motor cars. They have bought television sets, on hire purchase and by other means. They, believed that the Government would look after their security. I notice that in the Minister's statement no provision at all is made for loss of equity for people who will be forced to move out of the country areas. Everyone knows full well that the value of housing in those areas has decreased. 
Many people have invested their life savings in country areas and they should at least be given the right to recoup some of those losses. The main intention of the scheme is to assist farmers, their families, their work force and those workers who have been displaced because of technological change. But what about all the other people in the country towns? What about the shearers, the dam sinkers, the unskilled machinery workers, the shop assistants, the people who work on councils - the amount of rates collected will decrease and these people also will be out of work - the stock firm employees and the truck drivers? They are just as important to the country areas in terms of population as the farmers and the workers on the farms ure. This is a glaring deficiency in the statement. Those people are fully entitled to receive retraining benefits, just as are their friends who happen to own or work on the properties affected. I do not think anybody could justly deny that. 
Many of these people have worked in the country for generations. They have been brought up in those country towns, and that is their whole life. They are out of work because of the crisis in rural industry. Surely they are entitled to some consideration. I think it is time that the Government widened the scope of its decision and included every person in the country who is unemployed, to give everybody the chance of rehabilitation and retraining. There are plenty of examples of this need in the pastoral areas in particular. Those areas are the ones being hit the hardest at the present time. The most vulnerable are those who have been affected by drought for a number of years. In the most intensely populated areas crises are developing in the dairying and fruit industries. The people in the country towns are entitled to rehabilitation and retraining under the reconstruction scheme. That is my main point. I therefore move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: but this House is of opinion that the scheme as proposed by the Government should not be confined only to displaced farmers, their families, their work force or those workers displaced by technological change but should include all people in rural areas whose occupation is directly dependent on th? viability of farming such as people engaged in local businesses or country town works who will also be unemployed'. 
It must be obvious to anybody that there is justice in the amendment. If honourable members do not vote for the amendment they will be showing blatant discrimination against sections of the work force living in country towns. What concerns me is that the statement contains no complementary statements relating to the whole facet of reconstruction and financial assistance to producers in the country areas and it contains no decentralisation policy and no policies relating to unemployment in the country areas or in the country towns. There is a lack of information and this is one of the reasons for the uncertainty in country areas. The Government has not announced a comprehensive policy embracing the reasons for the present decline of economic activity in rural areas. This is needed, not the ad hoc decisions which this Government takes from time to time. We had a statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a few weeks ago relating to a guaranteed price of 36c a lb for wool but we have heard nothing further about this. 1 understand that the preparation of the Bill is in chaos because the Government cannot agree on the types of wool to be included in or excluded from the deficiency payment. This is not the way to run a government. We have to have comprehensive policies introduced speedily into this Parliament, debated and passed. If this were done confidence in the country would be stabilised at least to a degree. 
The statement on the rural reconstruction employment training scheme has to be closely examined. Neither I nor any member of the Opposition have had time to study this statement in detail. We had approximately 1 or 2 hours in which to try to digest it before it was presented by the Minister. It is a most complex statement dealing with specific allowances, rates of pay and terms and conditions for trainees. It is quite obvious that the provisions of this statement must be looked at very closely by those concerned. I ask honourable members on the other side who are to speak in this debate whether my assumption is correct from the Minister's statement that legislation will not be forthcoming in relation to this scheme? We have not had sufficient time to study the proposals under this scheme introduced by the Government. If there is to be a pool of unemployment in country areas - and this is the basis for this statement - there are 2 major things we have to decide. What will happen to the unemployed? Is it the intention of the Government to train them and then to employ them in the capital cities? Is it the intention of the Government to try to keep these country people in country areas? What is the intention of the Government? It is certainly not set out in this statement. 
Obviously such a scheme must lay down principles. The Australian Labor Party represents all sections of the community. Our priority is to allow people to go to areas where they would be of the greatest benefit to the nation. Our first priority is to try to retain them in country areas in the interests of decentralisation. The Government has no policy of regional development or decentralisation. We have heard it put in this House time and time again that the Opposition has no policy on regional development or decentralisation. We have had promises by 3 Prime Ministers of information and findings by committees on decentralisation but we have not received any concrete proposal on this matter. It is quite obvious that reconstruction, rehabilitation and decentralisation are part and parcel of this scheme put forward by the Government. As I see it this scheme is deficient in the principles I have elaborated. 
I commend to the Government the Labor Party's policy on this matter. I have not sufficient time in this debate to read it. It is published in the annual conference platform of the Labor Party. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has had a lot to do with the formulation of this policy. Our policy makes it quite clear that the Labor Party places human rights and values first and provides for the development of full human dignity in this sphere. This means that every person should be entitled to consideration in the expenditure of Commonwealth funds on rehabilitation, reconstruction and retraining for the future development and benefit of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Is the amendment seconded? 
On a point of order. I assume that the honourable member for Riverina wishes to speak in this debate now because he is not certain whether he will be able to speak to it later. Is there an agreement that there will be 2 speakers from each side in this debate? The Government Whip did tell me that this would be so. 
I should like to say a few words on this  matter. I have had representations from very disturbed technicians in Mackay which will be one of the district centres affected. What surprises me is the great complacency of members of the Australian Country Party in this matter. 
Perhaps I do not use the word 'technician' in the same way as the Postmaster-General does. I refer to the technical people - the engineers and the telecommunications people. I do not mean linesmen. 
According to what the Postmaster-General said in his statement between 25 and 35 areas will be affected. The 3 main centres affected are Cairns, in the electorate of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  Mackay, in my own electorate, and Roma, in the electorate of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  These 3 centres are important in the communications field. I support what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said, that this is quite a strange proposal coming from a Government which is supposed to follow the principle of decentralisation. Here we find deliberate centralisation, which is quite contrary to the accepted principle of decentralising in order to keep people in the country. I find it quite strange that the Country Party accepts this proposition without any protest whatsoever, lt is not difficult to understand the principal reason for this. Probably most of the people who will be transferred compulsorily from these areas will be Labor voters, and the Country Party could not care less about them. If the people being transferred were farmers, it would be different. The people in these areas are entitled to some consideration. 
The Postmaster-General indicated that these people have been consulted. I do not know who has been consulting whom, but not much consultation has gone on in Mackay and I doubt very much whether much consultation has gone on in Cairns, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Leichhardt. I have looked at the map which is attached to the statement. I suppose that one must bow to the expertise of the Postmaster-General's Department. But for the life of me I find lt most difficult to understand why an area like the Mackay district and the Pioneer Valley has been cut right out in terms of a centralised headquarters. 
As the Postmaster-General knows, this district is the most important timber growing area in Australia. In addition, it is now developing into one of the most important areas in Australia for the production of coal for export. Already parts of the hinterland are recognised as some of the greatest coal districts in the world. One railway line has been constructed in the last 12 months and another railway line is mooted to go from Hale Creek through the Pioneer Valley into Mackay. Yet, competent and efficient men  ia  this district are to be compulsorily removed to Rockhampton on the departmental pretext of achieving greater efficiency and economy. The principal reason given is centralisation. I suppose if the Postmaster-General wants to take it further he might as well abandon more boundaries and have fewer than 25 in the whole of Australia. The figure of 25 contained in the Postmaster-General's statement must have been worked out by a computer. But why was the figure 25 instead of 24, or 23 or another? 
I am concerned, as I hope the PostmasterGeneral is concerned, about the people who will be moved. I would have thought that the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in particular would speak on this matter because he represents an area in which land values are somewhat depressed at present. The people in his electorate who are affected by this change will probably have to sell on a depressed market houses which they purchased and developed over the years. They will possibly move into areas where land values are much higher. 1 am hoping that the Postmaster-General will give us some indication that a man who is compulsorily transferred and must sell his assets and thereby suffers a loss will be compensated. I believe that is only fair because most of the men, perhaps, have mortgaged their lives and future. Many of them would have put their wives' savings into the purchase of houses and the development of the blocks. However, under the scheme before the House they may find that they have to moye out of the area in which they now live. Maybe only a relatively few people will be affected in each of the existing country districts. The Minister in his statement said: 
In each case between 23 and 35 positions only will eventually be transferred to Area headquarters. 
But it does not matter if there is only one transfer. The principle is still the same whether 1, 25 or 100 families are affected. If there is any distress or loss of equity because families have been compulsorily transferred the Government should take this into account. 
A loss of purchasing power also is involved. If 35 men are transferred from one of the local headquarters this in itself might mean that, taking into account wives and children, 100 people move out of the area, with resultant loss to that district. As I have said before, it is amazing to me that this Government which stands - or is supposed to stand - for decentralisation is deliberately bringing in a policy which will lead to centralisation; it is deliberately moving people out of country areas to the cities. Yet members of the Country Party sit quietly in their places and do not even object to this proposal. This is against Country Party policy. As the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  said this afternoon, the Party is a sham and this is another example of it. 
The objective of the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Bill 1971 is to provide for the extension for a further period of 3 years, from 1st January 1972 to 31st December 1974, of the special levy on livestock slaughtering in order to provide finance for the operations of the meat industry service and the investigation section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. It is noticeable that the rates of levy are to remain unaltered. As honourable members will know, the work carried out by the CSIRO in the various laboratories with respect to meat services has been of very valuable assistance to the cattle industry and the meat exporting industry as well as to the domestic meat industry over the years. The Opposition supports this measure. In terms of research work on quality control, sanitation, hygiene and various aspects of meat inspection, this service is of interest and of benefit to the meat industry in Australia. 
It would seem that the beef cattle industry is the industry which has the best prospects of all major primary industries in Australia, if one can judge from its history, particularly in the post-war years, and from trends in production and consumption in the major consuming countries of the world. In fact, it would seem that world beef prices, which are the main determining factor for the level of prices in Australia, will continue to increase despite the fact that there is a very large swing in Australia towards beef production, particularly in the southern States. But, of course, as everybody knows, beef cannot be produced overnight. With a cash crop such as wheat, production can be increased relatively quickly. But it takes 9 months to breed a calf and possibly another  2i  to 3 years before that calf is turned off in killable condition. 
Well, in general  2i  years to produce a beast is a pretty short period on the average in Australia. Not many States can produce a carcase of  5i  to 6 cwt dressed weight in that period, except in parts of Southern Australia where producers do not experience the periods of seasonal distress that are experienced in the major areas of beef production in Australia. 
Dealing with science and technology in this field, the matter which I am concerned about and which should concern most honourable members in this House, is the possibility of the introduction of synthetics. It would seem1 that the combination of science and technology in the field of synthetics could become the greatest threat to the future of important established primary industries in Australia. I am referring now particularly to the beef industry. Science, having mastered the production of synthetic fibres as substitutes for wool, cotton and silk, is now concentrating its attention on the efficient production of synthetic foods, particularly meat. At present, the No. 1 challenge for science in the highly industrialised countries is to find a method of producing an effective substitute for the high priced commodity of beef. The remarkable achievements of science which have provided tremendous benefits to various primary industries, including the beef industry, throughout the world could in the end be responsible for the death of some of these major industries. Honourable members may say that this statement is an exaggeration, but we can recall, and see from the evidence now available to us, what happened to the wool industry when synthetic fibres were produced. The paradox of benefits and costs of synthetic achievement is in fact seen with telling force in the way in which synthetic fibres have contributed to the eroding or even the smashing of the economic viability of wool. 
Tremendous research has been carried out in post-war years in industrialised countries into polyesters in particular, nylons and acrylics. I believe that these advances are a living example of the threat posed by future synthetic production, particularly as it affects livestock products such as the dairy industry and the beef industry. 
We know, the history in respect of synthetics as a substitute for butter. Already scientists in Japan, the United States and Western Europe quickly are mastering the production of synthetic meats through the texturising of the high protein soya bean through processes of thermo plastic extrusion and fibre spinning. Experimental evidence already shows that the simulated meat products, including substitutes for the higher priced cuts from, say, the hind quarters, have nutritive values at least equal to that of beef. We know that the protein value of the soya bean, whichever way one measures it, is higher than that of natural meat. When these products are mass produced it is obvious that the prices will be significantly lower than those for natural beef. In fact, the prices for artificial meats arc already lower than the prices of cuts of the lower priced meats. 
In addition to the extraction of edible protein from, say, the soya bean I think we have to worry a great deal about the scientific breakthrough in the production of synthetic protein by bio-chemical means. The major raw material for synthetic protein produced by this method comes from the fuel industry, from the by-products of oil in particular, lt would seem that the breakthroughs in regard to fungal yeast for example, with respect to by-products of oils, are such that this product could supplement the edible proteins in this manufacturing process to produce a commodity which could be the basic raw material in the future for a substitute for natural meats. 
Why is this happening? Many primary producers in Australia are asking this question. The greatest encouragement for the production of synthetic fibres and food is given by the periodic occurrence of high prices for primary products. We know that the extraordinarily high prices of wool in the early 1950s resulted in the major wool importing countries and wool using countries spending tremendous amounts of money in orientating programmes of research designed to produce a substitute for wool. Of course, this process was already taking place. However, the high price of wool in the early 1950s gave this tremendous impetus to scientists to produce an effective substitute. When we study the output and price of acrylics and polyesters we see the downward slope of the average cost curve with respect to these commodities. 
As I have said before, I believe that beef prices will increase on world production and consumption trends. There are some people who might argue that beef prices now are too high. From a national point of view it is good to have beef prices at a high level. This stimulates employment and earns export income. On the other hand, this situation will lead to exactly what happened in the case of wool. It will add greatly to the encouragement of scientific research in places like Japan, the United States and Western Europe. In particular, this research will occur in places such as Japan which are faced with an almost perennial import bill represented by high prices for meat, particularly beef. High prices for meat will encourage their scientists to introduce a substitute for this high priced commodity. 
Already there is ample evidence that large amounts of money have been directed towards synthetic meat processes in those highly industrialised countries. Therefore, although on the one hand we have the advantage of having high beef prices - and this promises an excellent future for beef - there is the danger that this position will promote among our customers, which are the higher industrialised countries, the impetus for accelerated research into the utilisation of edible synthetic protein in the manufacture of meats. 
Up to the present most of the production of synthetic meats has been in what we would call the lower priced cuts - the forward quarters in particular. These meats are used in the manufacturing process of sausages, meat loaves, stews and so on. Evidence to date indicates that from a palatability point of view one cannot distinguish between synthetic or natural meats of this type. I have mentioned before that from a nutritional point of view synthetic meat is equal to or if not better than natural meat because the manufacturers can inject and regulate the various proteins they want. It does seem, however, that scientists have not yet mastered palatability in the higher priced cuts of beef that we are used to eating such as the rumps, T-bone steaks or the eye of fillets. 
Palatability, of course, is one of the most important aspects of consumer choice. However, all evidence suggests that if scientists have been able to master marbling, selvage, colour and presentation of meat they will be able in the end to master palatability. Some housewives, for example, like a pink cut of meat while others like a blood red cut of meat; some like cream fat while some like white fat. Scientists have already mastered the art of producing these differences. However, as far as we know they have not yet mastered palatability of the higher priced cuts. They have mastered tenderness and some laboratories have been experimenting with artificial bone by using plastic and putting this product into the higher priced cuts. In other words, we can see a pattern developing in the highly industrialised countries for the manufacture of a substitute of which I believe we have to be extremely careful in Australia. 
It is no good ridiculing the production of meat by synthetic means. I could give plenty of quotes as to what was said 20 years ago with respect to the wool industry. People said at that time that what we are seeing today would never happen. The thing is that science and technology is increasing at a phenomenal rate, particularly in the fields of plastics and biochemical research of by-products. As I mentioned before, research is being undertaken into the use of the by-products from the production of oils and fuels. I believe that a very serious problem will confront us in the future. I do not want to be accused of being a pessimist or a prophet of doom. I am not attempting to be that. I have always been one who has been the greatest optimist in regard to beef. I can show honourable members plenty of papers that 1 have written in the last 20 years on this matter. I have always believed that the beef industry would have the best future because really there is no effective substitute for this product in natural meat, except other types of meat such as lamb, mutton or fish. As standards of living increase people like to eat more beef. 
I would now like to talk about the price of synthetic beef. It is obvious that when meat is mass produced by the very large industrial factories around the world the price will be significantly lower than the present price of natural beef. Will the history of synthetic fibres relative to natural fibres be repeated? The Australian cattle industry is caught in a dilemma. On the surface the prospects for beef are excellent but the threat of synthetics must be faced; it must be challenged. I am not one of those who believe that we should outlaw synthetics. This is a defeatist attitude. We have to challenge and defeat synthetics, if necessary, in other ways. But by outlawing them here we will not outlaw them on world export markets. AH we might do is preserve some of our home markets but we will get into the same problem we had with margarine and butter. We have to face this problem early and, if necessary, defeat it. 
Some might ask: Why defeat it? It depends upon which way we look at this, I suppose. My colleagues on both sides of the House can argue logically and validly that we should be supporting the food that will provide the same nutritional value at the cheapest price, whether it is synthetic or not. 
What 1 was about to say is that already we have an established industry throughout Australia. Already the cattle industry occupies the greatest proportion of land used in Australia. Towns and work forces have been developed throughout Australia. We have meat works and so on. There is a tremendous infrastructure and this cannot be ignored. What does the cattle industry do? On the one hand it has this dilemma resulting from increased costs and it is no good asking the industry voluntarily to reduce its prices. After all, it is a world problem. There is a world demand and costs are going up at an alarming rate which means that the industry has to increase its prices to cover these increased costs. 
The other point I want to make with respect to meat concerns the Northern Territory. I feel there is a serious injustice to the Northern Territory in the uniform policy relating to third quota or third grade manufacturing meat having to earn market or diversification ratios. The amount of beef which can be exported to the United States is dependent on an exporter's ability to exploit other markets. In my opinion all third grade beef produced in the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys for export should be completely free to move to any world market in which it can be profitably sold. If the most profitable market for third grade beef is the United States the present inhibiting policy of earning ratios for markets other than America should not apply to these remote northern areas because of the special production and marketing problems involved. The Federal Government's reluctance to use its constitutional power to allow third grade meat from the Northern Territory to move freely on world markets is an example of bureaucratic indifference to the important problems that are to a degree exclusive to this part of Australia. 
One can understand the attitude of the Australian Meat Board because it is obviously dominated by members from eastern and southern States. Their job is to look after the interests they represent. One can understand, for example, beef producers in central Queensland and southern Australia saying there should be no concessions to the diversification scheme in favour of the Northern Territory. On the other hand the Commonwealth, which has complete jurisdiction over the Northern Territory, should step in here because the production problems in the Northern Territory are markedly different from those in the more favoured beef producing areas in the eastern and southern States. Involved here are factors such as climatic conditions, the harsh periods of seasonal or nutritional distress over September, October and November until the early storms break. This is a period when the nutritional level of pastures is greatly reduced and when cattle simply lose weight unless they have some supplementary feeding. In the main they lose weight and it is not until the grasses start to grow that their weight gain commences again. Other factors are the relatively high rate of mortality due to the large areas and the type of country involved, and the remoteness of the area as regards fattening properties. All these factors mean there must be a considerable quantity of third grade manufacturing beef produced in the Northern Territory and, consequently, the diversification policy applying to third grade meat from the Northern Territory should be abandoned. It should be abandoned on other grounds also because Australia cannot even produce enough third grade beef to meet the American quota. American cattlemen are not resentful of the importation of third grade meat into the United States. 
I want to deal now with a third matter and it will take no more than 3 minutes. I am concerned with the importation of foreign meat into this country. I would like the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  who is at the table, to convey my concern to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  because cattle producers in the north are on my hammer almost every day regarding the stocking of foreign canned meats in northern grocery shops. I have brought into the House 2 such cans of beef, one from Argentina and the other from Paraguay. Here in Australia we. are trying to promote as much as possible an increase in the per capita consumption of beef in Australia due to a tremendous potential for beef production here and yet we are importing beef. I would concede that if we did not have sufficient quantities of beef perhaps we should import it. But I find it very strange that a country like Australia, one of the biggest beef exporting countries, cannot manage its own affairs sufficiently well to avoid having to import from Latin America beef in cans. The Minister for External Territories would appreciate the concern of cattle producers when this type of thing happens. 
Because this matter has not been brought to my attention very much except over the last few months I assume that there is not a great quantity of imported beef involved but it is the future with which we must be concerned. If there is to be a continuation of the importation of foreign canned beef into Australia it is time the Parliament was informed a little more about it. I cannot see  the  logie in trying to promote the consumption of Australian beef in Australia, particularly in view of the problems we have, when at the same time we allow the importation of beef into Australia in canned form. That is all I have to say on that matter. I hope that the Minister will convey my remarks to the Minister for Primary Industry because I would like to know the answer to some of the queries I have raised. This matter is of concern to cattle producers who cannot understand this paradox. I cannot give them an explanation except the economic one that perhaps we do not have enough beef. 
Sitting suspended from 12,49 to 2.15 p.m. 
This Bill is concerned with the continuation of the payment of bounty on phosphate fertilisers until December 1974. The Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act came into operation in 1963 and has continued up to the present time. At the present time it provides for a payment of $12 a ton on standard superphosphate and $60 a ton on phosphorous pentoxide content or other superphosphate and ammonium phosphate produced and sold for use as fertiliser in Australia. From time to time amendments to this legislation have been debated in the Parliament and it is interesting to note that since 1963 the total amount of bounty paid to manufacturers to offset costs and, in the end, indirectly affecting the price of superphosphate to primary producers has been $234,852,323. 
That is the figure I was given by the Department of Customs and Excise. The difference could be the estimate made for last year. But the fact of the matter is that a very large amount of money has been injected into the economy as a counter to increased costs of phosphates. There is a perennial argument - 1 know the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and I always have a friendly argument on this - as to whether the primary producer is getting the full benefit of the bounty. On the one hand it can be argued that the prices of superphosphate or the price of the phosphate content of fertilisers has not increased, and this is true if one looks at the index of prices paid, produced by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. We find that the actual price of superphosphates to primary producers has shown practically no increase since 1963, due to the fact that the bounty has been progressively increased to counter the increase in manufacturing costs. 
The argument, of course, is whether this is in fact really offsetting some degree of inefficiency in the manufacturing of phosphatic fertilisers, and, when one looks at the profits, whether the primary producer should be getting fertiliser today at a lower price than he is actually paying. I can only assume, I think rightly, that the Department of Customs and Excise periodically checks the cost figures of fertiliser companies and would be concerned if in fact what I allege is true. It would be concerned to ensure, in other words, that the bounty is being paid correctly to counter legitimate increases in costs. But the allegation is always made, not only by producers but also others who are not directly concerned with the manufacture of fertiliser in Australia but are more concerned with the import of fertilisers, that this bounty is not all serving the purpose for which it was established. But this is a moot point. As I say, I must accept the explanations given by the Government that it is acting as a watchdog over the costs of fertiliser companies. 
The fertiliser industry is going through a fascinating stage at present. It is a very worrying time, I would think, for the major producers of most phosphatic, nitrogen and potash fertilisers in Australia because almost every day one sees reports of large losses, mergers or consolidations of important fertiliser companies in Australia, some selling out to other bigger companies, and this process has been accentuated in the last 2 or 3 years. There is always the worry, of course, that monopolistic practices will eventuate from amalgamations, but here again one has to rely on the watchdog activities of the. Government to see that there is a relationship between the import parity prices of nitrogenous fertilisers and the actual prices being paid. 
It is interesting to have a look at the way fertiliser companies are being consolidated. Consolidated Fertilisers, a consortium which is now being formed, has as its major shareholders: Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd with 38 per cent; Dow Chemicals (Australia) Ltd with 20 per cent; Swift Chemicals Pty Ltd with 13 per cent; the Sulphide Corporation Pty Ltd with 9 per cent; Mitsui &amp; Co. (Australia) Ltd with 2 per cent; and King Ranch with 4 per cent, leaving 14 per cent of the total shareholdings held by Australian institutions. So this giant company, the Consolidated Fertilisers consortium, has as its shareholders a wide range of powerful companies. There are 4 subsidiaries of the Consolidated Fertilisers consortium. They are: ACF and Shirleys Fertilisers Ltd; Eastern Nitrogen Ltd; Austral Pacific Fertilisers Ltd; and the Ammonia Co. of Australia Ltd. 
There has been a lot of concern expressed, particularly by primary pro- ducers, regarding the effect on fertiliser prices of these amalgamations into this giant consortium. It has, of course, been argued and, in fact alleged, that because we now have a consortium of this size, a monopoly of this size, that particularly in the field of nitrogen there will be the temptation to use monopolistic practices to place prices at a higher level and that this will not be subject to challenge. Of course, we know that under the Act if there is evidence that a company is charging a higher price than the import parity price then action can be taken to stop the subsidy. I deal with nitrogen as distinct from phosphate, but the principles are nevertheless relevant because it is of concern to producers in Australia that if we have fewer manufacturing companies then the chance of higher prices being charged for phosphate becomes greater due to lack of competition. 
The figures I quoted before show in total that the upward trend in superphosphate usage slackened off several years ago. One would suspect that there is some reduction in the use of superphosphate anyhow throughout Australia because of the problems of the wool and wheat industries. One of the fields of research which must be accelerated in the immediate future is the residual effects of phosphate in the soil, because it is now quite clear that many producers, particularly in the wheat and sheep areas, are questioning the principle of the annual application of many fertilisers. In fact, in many areas which I have visited in the last 18 months this has been one of the most topical questions discussed. People have reduced the application of superphosphates and yet have seen no diminution in the response of their pastures. Over time, of course, there certainly would be a marked decrease in this response. 
It has been shown by scientific research that when superphosphate is applied to the soil, only about 40 per cent of that phosphate is actually utilised by the plant itself. The balance stays in the ground. Some may be wasted by leaching but most of it stays in the ground and has a residual effect. The problem of science is to determine optimum rates of application, because Australian soils, with some exceptions, are deficient in phosphorous. They are deficient also in nitrogen and other elements but the principal deficiency is phosphate, which we are now discussing. In Queensland, where recent work has been done some soils are notorious for this deficiency. The newly developed wallum soils are perhaps the most notorious in Australia in terms of commercial development because already there has been a profitable response to applications of up to 25 cwt of superphosphate an acre. This is a pretty solid application of any fertiliser. For many other soils 8 cwt of superphosphate is recommended. 
It would seem, therefore, that with large amounts of superphosphate or phosphatic fertilisers being applied to the soil, some thought must be given to undertaking more intensive research into the residual effects of phosphates. One of the interesting aspects of experiments in recent years is that in the case of continuous cropping, as distinct from, say, perennial pastures, there is little residual effect because the phosphorous is used by the plant. With perennial pasture, it has been estimated, from experimental work, that up to 25 per cent of residual phosphorous remains in the soil. In pastures in the southern tablelands of New South Wales, experiments have shown that up to 50 per cent of residual phosphate remains in the soil and in New England up to 70 per cent of the phosphate is not used by the plant. Strangely enough, in time, through systems of reversion, this residua] phosphate reverts to a fertiliser something like the rock phosphate in its original form. So, this is an area where much research could be done on residual effects on little known soil types. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the State departments of agriculture and other Commonwealth departments have been doing some research on this matter. However, with costs increasing and commodity prices decreasing, more work needs to be done in avenues which can reduce costs of production. Many phosphates are returned to the soil as organic fertilisers through humus or through animal excreta and, consequently, there is the continuous problem of measuring the residual effects of phosphates. Perhaps the most lucrative area for development of phosphates in Australia is the northern part of Australia. The field has been well explored in the southern part of Australia in relation to wheat and pastures, mainly subterranean clover, but it has been only in the past 5 years that the scope for the development of tropical pastures in association with phosphatic fertilisers in the north has been appreciated. We all know of the tremendous importance of the association of phosphates with, say, Townsville lucerne and what this can mean to the cattle industry. It can revolutionise the cattle industry not only in terms of carrying capacity and turnoff but also in relation to reducing mortality rates. 
In northern Australia there are about 180 million acres, mainly in the spear grass area, which are suitable for the application of phosphatic fertiliser in conjunction with other fertilisers and for the establishment of known perennial pastures such as the stylosanthes and desmodium. Coupled with this pasture revolution through the use of superphosphates, there is tremendous potential for increased development of the cattle industry. One of the Government's most progressive moves in northern development was the establishment of the CSIRO Townsville laboratories under the then control of  Dr Griffiths  Davies. This was an extraordinarily good move in that it set up a team of scientists in the environment in which they were to work and to apply their results rather than in Canberra, Brisbane or some other capital city. Already the research work of the Townsville laboratories has made a profound impact on the cattle industry in the north, particularly in the spear grass country. 
Earlier I mentioned that about 180 million acres of tropical land is suitable for more intensive development. When it is realised some areas are carrying only one beast to 100 acres and that the carrying capacity can be increased to, say, one beast per 7 acres with the turnoff being increased even more than that, because mortality would be reduced, one can see the tremendous potential for increased production in the northern part of Australia. Of course, the whole objective of a phosphatic fertiliser is for it to be used in association with a legume which itself will, by the various rhizobium processes, produce nitrogen in the soil. So, by the utilisation of phosphate with a legume, nitrogen is promoted. This is what is most needed in our north because soils are highly deficient in phosphates and nitrogen. Even the sceptics can now see for themselves the outstanding results that can be achieved when superphosphate is used with Townsville lucerne and the other stylos. The other legumes - desmodium, glycine, indigofera, phaseolus and so forth - are all making their mark in the northern areas when used in association with phosphates. 
It seems clear that this is the new area in Australia in which great interest will be shown in relation to the application of phosphate fertilisers because, as I mentioned in an earlier speech today, of all the major exporting primary industries the beef industry is the one that appears to have the greatest future, provided that synthetics can be kept under control. It is in this area of northern Australia, almost untouched in terms of potential, that this development of pastures and phosphate in association is going on. 
-The Minister for Customs and Excise, who is at the table asks me what sort of synthetics there are for beef. I spoke for about  20  minutes on this subject today. I referred to the use of soya bean protein which is being utilised for the manufacture of synthetic beef, particularly in Japan. 
Those are the main points I wished to make about the role of phosphate fertilisers. I mentioned earlier the problem of controlling the price. My worry is about the fertiliser consortium because it is becoming more powerful through lack of competition. Through amalgamations it will perhaps be able to exert greater influence than before on the price of fertilisers. Let me give one example of this. It does not relate to phosphate, but it is relevant. It follows the same principle. I refer to nitram. It was always thought that after the phosphate fertilisers bounty legislation was passed the price of nitram and urea and other nitrogenous fertilisers could not be increased very significantly because of the import parity provisions. But in recent weeks the price of nitram has increased by $5 a ton in Brisbane, $8 a ton in Mackay and  $9  a ton in Townsville. People are asking: 'Well, did we not tell you this? Did not we tell you that the consortium would do this? As soon as this monopoly was formed, up went the price of fertiliser'. I am being criticised in the north because I was defending the fertiliser companies. Of course the only way they could reduce costs was to amalgamate. 
We saw the tremendous excess capacity of Austral Pacific Fertilisers Ltd. Now we have the concrete proof with nitram rising by this pretty significant figure. When one looks at the explanation of it, one finds that the undumped price of nitram is still significantly higher than the price that is being charged in Australia. The undumped price of nitram is  $73  a ton. The lower price charged previously was apparently caused by competition between nitram and urea. 
I have directed a question in relation to this to either the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  or the Minister for Customs and Excise because I am not particularly satisfied with the explanations being given by the fertiliser companies. As I keep emphasising today, what we have to guard against is that as more and more fertiliser companies of necessity are having to amalgamate for economies - whether they be economies of scale or something else - we have to watch that they do not have an undue influence on the price of fertiliser in Australia. The Government has to exercise this watchdog approach all the time. As far as the Bill is concerned, provided that the farmer is receiving the full benefit of this bounty - T say this for my friend the honourable member for Mallee - the Opposition supports the Bill. 
The principal objective of this legislation is to implement a stabilisation scheme which in effect will support the returns or incomes of apples and pear growers for a period of 5 years commencing with the 1971 crop. The Opposition will not oppose the Bill because it at least improves the position crf the apple and pear growers who are directly dependent on the industry, as well as that of the general business community and the work force indirectly dependent on the prosperity of the industry. 
As honourable members well know, this is a most vital industry to certain regions of Australia and in particular to the State of Tasmania. However, the Opposition will move certain amendments. The amendment to the second reading, which I move now, is as follows: 
That  all words after  That' be  omitted  with  a  view to  inserting the following words  in  place thereof: while  not  opposing  the Bill, this  House  is of the  opinion  that  e single national marketing  authority should be established which will be the sole authority responsible for the export marketing of Australian apples and pears and which' will administer, in conjunction with the Commonwealth, a well formulated apple and pear stabilisation scheme'. 
In the Committee stage the Opposition will also move 2 amendments dealing with the price support scheme and the actual rate of stabilisation or the relationship of the maximum of 80c per bushel and the level of 4.4 million bushels to that proportion of total sales of apples and pears sold at risk. I have been associated in one way or another with stabilisation schemes for a long time, but this is the first stabilisation scheme that I have seen which is loose or perhaps risky in its application. The basic principles of administration and acquisition by a strong statutory marketing authority just do not exist in the scheme. 
The Government in its weakness - it seems to be getting weaker every day as regards primary industry - instead of implementing a strong stabilisation scheme based on the solid foundation of a single statutory marketing authority, has obviously compromised with those people who are opposed to stabilisation. They are principally, those who have vested interests in export licences as well as those who apparently do not want to lose any power or influence in the marketing system. Instead of having a strong single marketing authority the Government has implemented a scheme in which we will see the uncoordinated buying and selling of apples and pears, dominated by as many as 19 licensed operators in Tasmania operating either independently of one another or in collusion. Although in recent days there has been a decision to form a consortium, because of the decision of the Board that only one licence be granted for export from Tasmania there is still a grave element of doubt as to the effectiveness of the operation of such a scheme, when one compares it ' with, for example, a single statutory marketing authority such as the Australian Wheat Board and others in the same category. 
Nevertheless this consortium, speaking with one voice as the agent of the Board, will certainly improve the position compared with that in Tasmania with 19 separate licensed exporters all going their own separate ways. But still it would be far better - the Opposition cannot hammer this point more - if the Government had acted strongly and had adopted the principles recommended by the recent Grant inquiry for setting up a strong single statutory authority to take full responsibility for the acquisition and disposal of apples and pears. In detail what I mean by this is as follows: Firstly, what is required is a single marketing authority to acquire apples and pears and to arrange for the selling of the entire crop either by the authority itself or by licensed exporters who have acquired expertise in the selling of the crop on international markets. They would act as an agent in the same way as the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd acts as an agent for the Queensland Sugar Board in disposing of the Australian sugar crop for export under certain conditions. Secondly, the fruit acquired by a statutory marketing authority would be security for advances to growers. They would have access to Reserve Bank finance as opposed to the present method, which is a most haphazard system, whereby the exporters themselves take on the system of financing, frequently having a mortgage or a lien on the crop or even on the property and tying the owner to that particular exporting firm. 
The third criterion with respect to a single statutory marketing authority would be that all fruit would be vested by title in the marketing authority. It would seem to me that under this present Act the Apple and Pear Board has no authority whatsoever to sell the crop or to have access or title to the crop. In this respect as regards a single marketing authority there would have to be some decision taken with regard to the debts which have already been mounting up and which have already tied by mortgage and other agreements the licensed exporters and individual growers. Frequently the charge is made, as my colleagues from Tasmania have often stated, that a grower who has his crop tied by lien or mortgage does not get as high a price as he might get and should get if that were not the case. Of course, this is not the only industry to which that situation applies. We hear this said frequently with respect to the wool industry. 
A single marketing authority would be in a position to develop marketing schedules for export so that Australian apple and pear growers would receive the best possible prices in other countries through the intelligent regulation of the orderly flow of fruit to these markets. A single statutory marketing authority would also be able to exploit or develop new markets more effectively than under the present set-up with the relationship between the Board and this consortium. In other words, it would be speaking with one strong voice. Whether it were negotiating freight rates, special agreements or special prices in other parts of the world it would speak with one strong voice and not in the fragmented, half-baked approach this Act has in mind. The authority would have full responsibility for administering the stabilisation scheme in close consultation and collaboration with the Commonwealth. Above all, one of its main objectives, as we see it, would be the role it would play in the future in regard to planning of controlled production and realistic market demand. 
In this legislation there is no evidence of any desire on the part of the Government to face the serious problems of the future with regard to reconstruction and rehabilitation. At this point of time this should be a critical objective in the fruit industry and it should be part and parcel of the legislation. There are precedents for a strong single marketing authority. We have the Australian Wheat Board which speaks with a strong and single voice in negotiating contracts, freight rates or whatever action is needed. The sugar industry which today, with the beef industry, perhaps is the most stable of all primary industries in the export field, speaks with one strong voice in negotiating. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company, which is the agent for the industry, is a highly organised and highly efficient body in terms of the selling of sugar. There are many - and I am one of them - who would like to see the cane producers having a greater say in the formulation of marketing policy. But this does not detract from the expertise of the selling agents. 
In the tobacco industry we find a stable scheme. Let us compare these stable industries with, for example, the wool industry. This is an industry in which the lesson that must be learned is how not to market a product. If there is one factor that stands out in the way the wool industry has been crucified in recent years it is an inefficient marketing system. What puzzles me as the days go by is why this Government cannot act, and act fast, to implement a statutory authority for the acquisition of the wool clip. Here is the principle that the apple and pear stabilisation scheme must learn from. We have efficient stabilisation schemes for wheat, sugar, tobacco and other commodities but not for wool. I believe and the Opposition believes that a statutory marketing authority for the apple and pear industry would be far more efficient and effective, particularly in Tasmania, than the present legislation which was brought in by this Government. 
1 mean for export marketing. Let me explain one more principle first in discussing this apple and pear stabilisation scheme. First, although it is called a stabilisation scheme let us be quite practicable. This is not a stabilisation scheme in the sense of accepted stabilisation principles. It is in effect an income support scheme. I have no argument against having such a scheme. There is every justification for it. Devaluation compensation, for example, has been terminated. I will say a little more about this later. The apple and pear industry in Tasmania could not function unless it had some degree of income support, whether it be by devaluation compensation or by an income support scheme such as this. 
The Minister no doubt will answer this, but in the determination of the support prices the puzzling aspect is: Who under this Act determines the level of support prices? They are prescribed, but one oan only assume that it must be determined by the Minister or the Government and not by a statutory authority such as the Apple and Pear Board which determines the level of support prices each season . for each variety of fruit. 
1 find it hard to see where this is provided for in the Act, but we can discuss this later. The glaring anomaly in this scheme is in the adjustment of support prices. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry made it very clear that in the fixation of the support prices each season those support prices would have full regard to movements in certain costs, but nowhere in this legislation is this prescribed. This same formula was used in the wheat stabilisation scheme. Chapter and verse were stated for the costs involved, and it was also stated that movements in costs would be taken into account. But under this apple and pear legislation every grower in Australia will be fully entitled to say that the support price will not increase because it does not say so in the Act. All that the Act provides is that new prices will be announced. 
But you make the decision? 
The Minister makes the decision. That is what I thought. Why is an income support scheme needed? Why is this stabilisation scheme needed? First of all, we have marked variations in the price of fruit. We find that costs are increasing whereas the net income of producers, in Tasmania in particular, is deteriorating. We see the susceptibility of price fluctuations to international marketing. We see the influence of elasticities of supply with respect to demand, which is quite clear, for example, in relation to pears. The price of pears varies inversely with the quantity exported. The devaluation of sterling by 14.3 per cent late in 1967 definitely reduced the price of apples and pears and of course definitely reduced the income earned. The second reason why the apple and pear industry must have an income support scheme is its growing dependence on export markets, particularly those where apples and pears are sold at risk. We can get an idea of this dependence on the export markets from the following figures: Tasmania accounts for 71 per cent of Australian apple exports and Western Australia accounts for 19 per cent. Sixty-nine per cent of Tasmania's production of apples is exported, and 89 per cent of Tasmania's production of non-canning pears is exported. These figures show the great vulnerability of Tasmania to the export market and they show why it is essential that there be some type of stabilisation or income support scheme to stabilise the incomes 'of growers. We know how important the gross income of the apple and pear industry is to the economy of Tasmania. 
This scheme, of course, will be related directly to sales at risk. It is in this respect that we are now seeing fundamental changes in the whole structure of the apple and pear industry. Over a long period of years sales at risk were approximately 35 to 40 per cent of apples exported. Now the percentage has jumped to almost 70 per cent. In some instances it is higher. With pears the Australian average is less volatile. The Australian average is around 40 to 45 per cent whereas sales at risk in Tasmania are 85 per cent. 
Why are sales at risk increasing? First of all, there is increasing technology overseas, particularly in storage, and in relation to varieties and the ability to spread the sales period over a greater number of months to compete more effectively with Australia. All that this really means is a decline in forward selling, with an increase in risk sales. 
In regard to the financial position of producers, as I said before, without the equivalent of devaluation compensation it is quite clear that very few growers, in Tasmania in particular, will be able to survive. It follows that, without this scheme, very few growers in Tasmania will be able to survive. If we have a look at the income position of some of the growers in Tasmania we find that over the last three or four years the net farm income of apple and pear growers in the southern part of Tasmania has averaged about $3,500, and in the north it has averaged much less - approximately $1,800. If we deduct devaluation compensation from these incomes we find a very stricken performance. In fact the average net income in the south of Tasmania would be only about $700 per annum, and in the north it would be a deficit. So it is quite obvious that apple growers in this part of Australia could not continue to function unless they had some type of income support programme. Over 90 per cent of the total gross farm returns from apples in Tasmania comes from export sale's. That is the average received by growers. 
Let us have a look at the distribution of net farm income for Tasmanian apple and pear growers. Forty-four per cent of growers earn less than $2,000 per annum. Approximately 68 per cent pf growers earn' less than $3,000 per annum. At the other end of the scale we see that 7 per cent of growers earn in excess of $10,000 per annum. So we can appreciate the very serious position of the majority of apple and pear growers in Tasmania. The average capitalisation on farms is approximately $50,000 in Tasmania, but this capitalisation is going down, and going down fast, because of the fall in land values and the fall in the profitability in apple growing. In fact, when one takes the ra:e of return on capital one gets, in many cases, a negative figure for many growers and an average of approximately  2i  per cent for the whole of Tasmania. 
The Opposition also takes issue with the way the stabilisation rate is formulated. The two basic variables are really the upper limit, of 80c a bushel and what that figure applies to, which is the 4.4 million bushels- the at risk proportion. They are the two basic variables, one might say, in the formulation of the scheme. In Committee we will move that there be a review of the rate of stabilisation each season, not just a review of the support price. Circumstances could easily arise whereby the at risk figure, for example, might jump very high and there, may be justification for increasing this figure of 4.4 million bushels. There may also be justification for altering the limit of 80c because it is quite obvious to those who understand stabilisation that if the cost of production goes up rapidly, net income goes down. If freight rates, for example, rise rapidly, the net return per bushel is reduced. Suppose the support price was $3 a bushel and the final net price received was $2 a bushel. At 4.4 million bushels of export risk, for the purposes of illustration, the producer would receive the $2 plus 80c - not $1 but 80c. At 6.6 million bushels he would receive the $2 plus 53c - not $1 and not 80c. At 8.8 million bushels he would receive the $2 plus 40c - not 80c and not $1. 
So it is quite obvious that the level of freight rates, the level of wages and the level of other costs will be a very important determinant not only in regard to future support prices, the final price received by the individual grower and the average return for the season but also in the actual level of the deficiency payment, as one might call it, being received by the grower himself. We can forget about the other complication of the grower having to pay into the stabilisation scheme. I am not normally a pessimist but I just cannot see the position arising where the price of apples and pears will climb so high that in fact the grower will be contributing to the stabilisation fund -that is, a true stabilisation fund; that is the point I make. In actual fact this is an income support scheme with which I have no argument whatsoever because it is justified. In terms of the upper limit of 4.4 million bushels one can see that in the next 5 years there will be an increase in apple and pear production because if I expand the theory I have been stating about the relationship of the 80c to the price of apples it is quite obvious that the bigger the grower the more he will benefit by this scheme, simply because his additional cost for each bushel grown is lower than the marginal cost of the smaller grower. It will pay him, one might say, to increase production provided his marginal return is greater than his marginal cost. This can not apply with equal force to the smaller grower and consequently we can see an encouragement in some circumstances for an increase in the production of apples particularly. 
Projections are that the total production in Australia could rise to 22 million bushels. Consumption is running at 13 million or 14 million bushels. Exports will probably be 9 million or 10 million bushels. Bearing these figures in mind, if there is an increase in sales at risk there will be justification for having a good look at this upper limit Of 4.4 million bushels. 
As regards future marketing prospects, today the United Kingdom is our principal export market. There are important markets in West Germany, Sweden and South East Asia, but I think one can and should assume for purposes of reconstruction and rehabilitation that the United Kingdom market is most shaky and by all accounts will probably disappear. South Africa is expanding its marketing promotion. Europe is expanding its export marketing and France and Italy, for example, are certain to increase their production of apples and pears progressively to make up the leeway which will probably occur by our loss of markets if Britain joins the European Common Market. 
I think the most pertinent part of this legislation and the one with which we will deal more in the Committee stage is that relating to the fixation of the level of price support at the beginning of the season for each variety of fruit. The level has been fixed for this year but already there has been a significant increase in costs. It would seem that no provision is made in this legislation to take into account the escalation in costs which has occurred since the level of price support for individual varieties was fixed. In the view of the Opposition this is a serious deficiency in the legislation. But even more important than that is the method by which the Minister, acting on the advice of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics with respect to specific costs, will fix the level of support prices each season. 
I cannot understand why the Government has obviously deliberately omitted from this Bill its intentions regarding the effect on costs of movements in price indices. The model to be looked at here is the wheat stabilisation scheme. When this new formula was introduced the Government, with the full support of the Opposition, completely threw overboard the old outmoded cost of production concept in which interest on land was having a crucifying effect on the cost of production and making a farce out of the costing procedure. At least the Government wrote into the wheat stabilisation legislation its intention regarding the fixing of the price each year. No such intention is written into this Bill and that is why in the Committee stage we will fully debate clause 7 because in the next 5 years the level of price support for each variety and the rate of stabilisation will be the key to the whole scheme. There are many other aspects with which I would like to have dealt but unfortunately I do not have time. 
I move: 
That the clause be postponed. (As an instruction to the Government that specific provision should be made in the clause that the regulations, in fixing the support price for a season, shall make such increase or decrease, if any, in the amount as is considered appropriate by reason of increases or decreases in prices, wages or rates of charges (including rates of interest) payable in connection with: 
the carrying on of operations wholly or partly for the purposes of the production of apples and pears, and 
the transport, handling or storage of apples and pears). 
This is an important matter which relates to one of the key points in the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech made this clear when he said: 
In the determination of the average export support prices for a season other than the first season, regard will be had to established movements in cash costs. 
The Opposition agrees with this principle but nowhere in this Bill is there any provision for this intention. What the Minister said is certainly an expression of intent. The Parliament is not passing judgment on the second reading speech but on the legislation before it. The precedent for such a provision as we advocate is the wheat stabilisation scheme. Honourable members will recall that there was a change in the formula for varying the guaranteed price according to movements in the price indices relating to full costs of production. The variation provided that the guaranteed price in the future would be adjusted according to movements in certain cash costs, principally the one deleting the interest on land factor. The Opposition supported this principle and there is no point now in going into our reasons. The Minister knows these full well. At that time I dealt at great length with the interest on land deleted and my arguments then also apply to this Bill. 
The logic behind the argument is simply this: When the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill was introduced the then Minister for Primary Industry made virtually the same second reading speech as far as it concerned this type of clause and said that the price would be varied each season according to movements in cash costs or having regard to cash costs. In the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill this was made clear to the satisfaction of this Parliament by the inclusion of clause 7 sub-clause 3 (b) which is virtually word for word the same as the amendment I have moved except that I have substituted the words apples and pears' for the word 'wheat'. However, the principle is the same. If this provision is good enough to go into the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act why can it not be included in the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Act? 
Honourable members might ask why I have moved for the postponement of clause 7. lt is not really an amendment to move that the clause be postponed and honourable members should not jump to the conclusion that I am trying to have this clause deleted from the Bill. I am not. But because of the procedures of this House this is the only way in which I can get a debate on this clause. It would seem from the advice that the Opposition has received that an instruction would be given to, I assume, the Governor-General to vary, possibly by increasing, the appropriation in the future to take into account the variations in cash costs. On the advice the Opposition has received this may not be possible by way of introducing legislation in the Parliament. That does not cut any ice with me. The Parliament will decide what does and does not go into the Act and I am conscious too that the Senate has some say in the matter. The logic is quite clear. If the Government's intention is to vary the price of apples and pears according to movements in cash costs - after all, this is most important in a time of inflation - surely in the legislation there should be some provision under which this can be done. Every member of Parliament on both sides of the House would agree with this and if any honourable member does not agree it is quite obvious that he does not understand the elements of the Bill. 
The Minister gave an assurance to the industry but the only assurance worth anything is that which the legislation contains. The second reading speech is not legal in any sense of the word; it is the legislation that is passed by this Parliament which is legal and that is all that can be taken notice of. If this provision is omitted from the legislation every apple and pear grower in Australia will be fully entitled to argue that the Government has no intention of varying the guaranteed price in accordance with movements in cash costs. I do not intend to argue, and I hope the Minister will not suggest that I am arguing, that the Government will not make such variations in the price. Of course it will. It is a responsible Government, 'responsible' being used in the legal sense, and has authorised a statement which would be binding on any responsible government. On the other hand there could be some very doubting apple and pear growers who do not believe that this Government is responsible. Therefore, they might say 'unless we see this in the Act we will not take any notice of what the Minister tells us.' The right thing to do is to make certain that this provision is placed in the Act somehow and if it cannot be done by the procedure which the Opposition has adopted I hope the Minister in reply will suggest how it can be done. 
To give honourable members some idea of the importance of cash costs, the average total cash costs for apple and pear orchards in southern Tasmania vary between $18,000 and $19,000 and packaging materials, sprays, services and hired labour are the main elements. In the northern area total costs amount to approximately $14,000. The average gross return from the apples and pears produced is between $24,000 and $26,000. This gives honourable members an idea of the small margin between cash costs and total returns. When imputed costs, that is, depreciation, owner-operator's labour, family labour, interest on land, and other interest items, are taken into account the total costs in many cases exceed the gross return in recent years. 
It is obvious that the total cash costs are of vital importance to the future cash income of apple and pear growers. This is why it is essential for this Parliament to find some way to enable this provision to be included in the Bill. I find it incredible that we cannot get it into this Bill because of some procedural matter involving an instruction to the Governor-General. As far as I am concerned we ought to abolish the Governor-General's part if the position is that this sort of procedure holds up legislation in Australia which is of national importance and which affects industry, the economy and the States. I hope that the Minister will inform the House whether this clause can be incorporated in the Bill because it should be included in this legislation, (f it is not the statements made by the Minister in relation to cash costs would not be able to be challenged in this Parliament. 
We on this side want to know more about the type of cash cost movements, for example, and how the Bureau of Agricultural Economics will weight the various price indexes by the use of price relativity methods. I am fully aware of the methods that the Bureau has used in the past but I would like to find out more about the details of the specific cash costs involved. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It would seem that the Government and the Opposition are not in difference, really, on the intention of this clause. As I understand the position, the Minister for Prim ary Industry advised that the Senate could not accept the amendment, I assume, on constitutional grounds. In the Australian Labor Party caucus the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and other Labor senators accepted the amendment. An identical clause for an identical purpose was accepted by the House of Representatives and by the Senate in the woo! stabilisation scheme. Surely the correct procedure would be to test the Senate to see whether or not this can be done. It has been done before by this House and by the Senate and the Opposition says that it should be done again. The Minister's reply is that he has been advised that the Senate will not accept the amendment. We can be certain of this only when the Senate votes on the position. I assume that the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee will consider certain aspects of the matter. 
It is quite logical, certainly to my way of arguing, that if such a proposal has been accepted before by this House and by the Senate the way to proceed is to insert the same clause for the same purpose. This is what the Government wants and what the Opposition wants. If the Senate wants to reject the clause, it is up to the Senate to reject it. But until the Senate does reject it I believe we have the right not to accept the Government's explanation. For that reason the Opposition will force a division on the issue. 
It is impossible to debate this Bill without the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  being present so I move: 
That progress be reported. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The question is, 'That progress be reported'. Those of that opinion say aye, of the contrary say no. I think the noes have it. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
With your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I point out that we are considering a technical Bill and the Minister should be present. Here he is now. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 10  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 11.  (2.) The rate of a stabilisation payment shall not exceed an amount per reputed bushel, or part of a reputed bushel, in each container of fruit equal to - 
Eighty cents; or 
a number of cents equal to the product of 80 and 4,400,000 divided by a number equal to the number of reputed bushels of fruit picked during the season concerned that- 
is exported (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) on consignment during that season; and 
is sold after exportation and before the end of that season, whichever is the lesser amount. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2.), insert the following subclause: (2a.) The rate of a stabilisation payment provided for in the preceding sub-section, especially the figure of 4,400,000, will be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for that season.'. 
The reasons for the Opposition moving this amendment are quite obvious. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  accepted the fact that there could be specific changes in the relationship between the quantities of apples and pears of various varieties produced. The Minister also accepted that there could be other pertinent changes and he made a statement which the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  quoted in the House last night. The Minister said:   . . the Government will be prepared to discuss the matter with the industry to see if it is necessary to amend the arrangements under the plan and  legislation. 
The Opposition takes the view, 1 believe quite rightly, that this statement should be incorporated in the legislation. As the provision now reads, clause 1 1 is final; that is, it relates to the 2 variables of 80c and 4.4 million bushels. As honourable members, particularly those from Tasmania, pointed out, the figure of 4.4 million bushels could be a dicey one and within 12 months the risk proportion of total sales of apples and pears could continue to be significantly greater than 4.4 million bushels. 
As 1 pointed out last night, with costs of production increasing, we must be wary of the actual level of the support price and its relationship to the 80c because 80c is the maximum payout. I gave examples of this last night. With a production of 6.6 million bushels, the stabilisation rate would approximate 53c and at 8.8 million bushels, 40c. These figures are related to the actual support price. It is a rather technical mathematical formula. Nevertheless, the Opposition is making what I believe is a simple request - that what the Minister said in his second reading speech be incorporated in the Bill and that at the end of each season or prior to the determination of a support price, there be a review of the rate of stabilisation. 
The honourable member for Murray went to some pains to criticise this proposal. He pointed out, quite rightly, that in all probability there will be exported at risk a growing proportion of fruit which will certainly exceed 4.4m bushels. If the honourable member is fair dinkum about wanting to ensure that apple and pear growers in Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia and other States are fully protected he will have no alternative but to vote for this amendment. The amendment simply seeks to insert in the Bill an additional sub-clause to enable the position to be reviewed prior to the fixing of the support price. The rate of stabilisation payment and the variables of 80c and 4.4m bushels should be reviewed every season. Surely there is nothing in the amendment to which the Government could object. The only objection to our amendment to clause 7 was related to the constitutional difficulties between the Senate and the House of Representatives. However, I believe that if a Minister makes a definite statement in  a  second reading speech and the Government is to be consistent those words should be incorporated in the legislation. 
In the opinion of the Minister, our amendment to clause 7 could not be accepted because of the constitutional problem. However, there is no constitutional problem in this amendment. It is a simple and important request, as has been made clear by honourable members. The variables of 80c and 4.4m bushels are the really key variables in the whole scheme and with them is allied the particular price of each variety of apple and pear in relation to the movement of cash costs every season. The 3 key variables are the price support, the 80c and the 4.4m bushels and the Opposition has moved its amendments around those 3 variables. The Opposition was given an explanation with respect to the first amendment. I repeat that this amendment is a simple request. I can see no reason why the Minister, if he wants to review and is prepared to review aspects of the scheme, cannot incorporate those words in the legislation. 
Tonight we are concerned with the Estimates relating to approximately $4m for the operation of the Parliament. Both the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  have dealt with the Parliament itself. I want to say a few words on this also because I believe that any large business corporation which adopted the inefficient methods and practices of the Federal Parliament in the conduct of its business would become bankrupt. The inefficiency of the Parliament seems to be worsening. I believe that the full blame for this position must be borne by the Government. The Government blames the Opposition whenever it can. The honourable member for Bradfield did this tonight. But it is the Government that is in power and has been in power for over 22 years. The Government - which, technically is the Cabinet - seems to believe that it can treat the rest of the Parliament with utter contempt. in the past 18 months I have noticed the growth of a most obnoxious practice. Ministers seeking national publicity introduce important legislation or important statements into the Parliament and then either shelve the legislation or refuse to allow the important ministerial statements ever to be debated. Let me give an example. Eighteen months ago the Government introduced important legislation into the Parliament in relation to the territorial sea and continental shelf. This was designed to clarify speedily the controversy which had arisen over the ownership of the offshore resources of Australia. While this uncertainty existed and still exists the search for and the exploration and development of natural resources off the coast of Australia is languishing. Despite its great national importance the Government has not proceeded with this legislation or even allowed it to be discussed in the Parliament. The Government's contempt of the Parliament, and indirectly the Australian people, can be gauged by the fact that when this Bill was introduced by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  18 months age he said: 
The Government feels that this issue should now bc decided once and for all and without delay. 
I repeat that that was 18 months ago. 
Seven weeks ago the issue of Britain joining the European Common Market was raised in this Parliament by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  after an overseas tour. This is a matter of vital importance to this Parliament and to this nation, but despite the assurances given by the Government to me that this matter would be considered by the Parliament without delay nothing has yet been done about it. There has been no opportunity to debate this statement. Nine months ago the Parliament was informed of the decisions of the inquiry into the damage caused to the Great Barrier Reef by the crown of thorns starfish. The Government gave us the decisions but has still not allowed the Parliament to debate this most important matter. It is patently clear that the Government is deliberately adopting tactics to delay or stifle debate on matters which could embarrass it. I believe these are defeatist, negative and bad tactics which are contemptuous of the Parliament. 
Six and a half months ago we had 2 Bills dealing with fisheries and the continental shelf introduced into the Parliament They are different to the one I spoke about a moment ago. They relate to the conservation of our natural resources off the coast. They have still not been debated in the Parliament. I have seen here, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  can verify, Bills relating to the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars go through with only one or two honourable members speaking to them, and then we see Bills which are relatively innocuous take one or two days to debate. The honourable member for Bradfield mentioned question time. 
I want to deal with another aspect of the Parliament which concerns me and that is, one might say, a growing contempt of the Parliament on the part of the younger generation. Anyone who has had any experience of speaking at high schools, universities or wherever it might be, and of trying to explain how the Parliament runs will have run into this problem. I believe parliamentary procedure needs a drastic overhaul in order to streamline the business of running the country in line with modern thinking, and by that I mean with 20th century methods. We have ridiculous names given to important parliamentary officers such as the Serjeant-at-Arms. With all due respect to our friend, what does this mean? Perhaps it meant something in the 16th century in the House of Commons. In the Senate we have the Usher of the Black Rod. Can honourable members imagine their sons or daughters attending a Canberra high school saying: 'My father is the Usher of the Black Rod', or somebody else saying: 'My father is the SerjeantatArms'? What does this mean? 
I had an experience here last year when unfortunately I was wrongfully suspended from the Parliament for a few hours and I was escorted out by the Sergeant-at-Arms. My daughter was plagued at school by people who thought that I was escorted out by somebody armed with guns, ls it not time that these 2 titles, SergeantatArms and Usher of the Black Rod, were relegated to the scrap heap? The practice of the  Speaker  in the chair wearing a long wig and a type of monkey gown suggests that he is presiding over either a fancy dress ball or a bunch of criminals or other people in a court instead of honourable members of the Parliament. The most important parliamentary officer is the  Clerk  of the House. What sort of title is this? Anybody who knows anything about classifications in the Public Service knows that the title  Clerk  of the House does not mean very much. I think it is degrading to the  Clerk  of the House that he should have to try and tell people outside the Parliament that he is the  Clerk. 
You are one of the old school. You ought to have been relegated, to the scrap heap about 30 years ago. We have the weird practice of admitting new members into what is called this chamber by means of some type of mock struggle. We have seen what happens when a new member comes through the doors. 1 happened to be one of them years ago. I was supposed to walk in here struggling with 2 fellows at my elbows. What sort of nonsense is this? This is more characteristic of a junior high school initiation ceremony than of an entry into the Federal Parliament. What do we see when the  Speaker  leaves the chair? The Sergeant-at-Arms leaps up, grabs what is called the Mace, and escorts the  Speaker  along the corridor. What for? Does he think that someone is going to waylay the  Speaker  in the Corridor, that there are a lot of thugs running around the corridors, and we need this 
Mace? The word 'Mace' does not mean to us what it means to the modern people. They put a different interpretation on it. 1 suggest also that we scrap the title of  Mr Speaker.  A  speaker  is one who speaks; that is the connotation of the term. But  Mr Speaker  is in fact a  chairman  and he should be called that. Everybody knows what a  chairman  is. Then we come to the practice of addressing members as the honourable member for such and such'. How do we know they are honourable members? The word 'honourable' in the dictionary means something. Then the Ministers - whether they are serving or not - have the high-falutin title 'the Honourable'. Even on aircraft passenger lists one sees 'the Honourable Minister for something or other'. Again, what son of nonsense is this? Then we have Assistant Ministers - a new title - who are also called 'the Honourable So-and-so. 
The Minister can say 'Hear, hear!' All I am suggesting is that if we think we are some elite, a class separate from the rest of society, we have another think coming because when a person mixes with some of the younger people one finds that on the average they have far more radical views than do older people. We should be moving with the times. This is the 20th century, as I said before, and not the 16th century. I would like to speak at some length on question time. If there is one thing in this Parliament that is a farce it is question time. I have been waiting for 3 weeks to ask an important question on wool and another on the effect on our coal exports of the international monetary crisis. I will probably get one in next week if I am lucky. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  - Order! the honourable member's time has expired. 
1 had intended to speak on primary industry but I should like to refer to a matter which was raised yesterday by the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  with respect to international trade as it relates to coal. He said that the coal industry faces a grave future because of particular problems. He mentioned industrial problems, escalating costs, etc., and he stated that already North Vietnam and Korea have signed contracts to supply coal to Japan while at the same time, one central Queensland coal project at Yarabbee has been set back because the Japanese have given these contracts to North Vietnam. What concerns me is that the Queensland Minister for Mines said: 
There is a suggestion that Communist influence iri Australia has set out to raise the price of coal so much that it will become a lucrative thing for Communist countries in Asia to supply coal to Japan. 
This is a serious belief, because it is quite obvious that Australia's mineral exports are of vital importance to its future, particularly with respect to the rural crisis, in view of this, I must ask, request or challenge - whatever one likes to call it - the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  to prove his belief that there is a Communist plot in Australia to smash the export coal industry by raising the price of coal so much that it would be lucrative for overseas Communist countries to supply coal to Japan. 
It is high time that these sorts of allegations were brought to a head. If the Queensland Minister can provide factual evidence to support this belief it must be quickly exposed and acted upon and I, for one, will have no hesitation in making it a national issue through the Federal AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  and the. Parliament, if such a plot exists. In fact, it. is tantamount to an act of treason because, of its serious effects on the Australian economy. However, not one of the inquiries that I have made today of responsible industrial officials and responsible Japanese officials even remotely indicates the existence in Australia of an intriguing international plot designed to smash the coal industry and to hand Australia's coal trade to other countries. It is of course, as we know on this side of the Parliament, an acceptable fact that the favourite political game of the Liberal-Country Party Government is to keep alive the Communist bogy, lt is to be hoped however in this case that a more responsible attitude is being taken. 
It cannot be denied that as a result of industrial problems and delays the stockpile of export coal is now at unacceptable low levels. If Japan had not been forced to slow down the rate of increase in coal and iron ore consumption it is clear that it would have been difficult for Australia to honour export contract schedules. International authorities associated with the Japanese economy state categorically that the slowing down in Japan's imports of coal and iron ore is a direct result of the steel recession which is now being accelerated by the international monetary crisis in which Japan and the United States of America are the key combatants. Instead of the usual heavy increase in crude steel production in Japan total production this year will be significantly less, and- if the United States economic policies continue to react further against Japan the slowing down of Japan's steel production must continue. 
It is anticipated that Japan will reduce her imports of iron ore by at least 11 million tons, and already Japanese steel mills have cancelled options made to Hamersley and Mount Newman. For the same economic reasons total coal imports, that is from all countries, are expected to be reduced by 17 million tons. All mineral exporting countries, not only Australia, are being affected by the steel recession in Japan. Japanese authorities indicate that as a result of the cancelled or deferred options, cancelled contracts or other agreements, imports of iron ore and coal could be reduced by as much as 25 per cent if the international monetary crisis is not satisfactorily solved. At the same time there will be substantial cuts in the Japanese imports of bauxite and alumina, and some companies in Australia could be affected. The savage reduction in demand from the United States for fabricated metal products has also resulted in a significant slowing down in the production of commodities involving copper, zinc and lead. The same economic influences in Japan have now resulted in a slackening in demand for wool with forced selling in Japan as a result of United States policies on textiles. 
Australia of course has been warned many times that the greater its dependence on Japan becomes the more significant will be the repercussions in Australia should the Japanese economy falter, and this is happening now. We know that over onethird of all imports of iron ore and coking coal into Japan come from Australia. I think that over one-fifth of the total imports of bauxite into Japan tom* Ire is 
Australia. It is of the utmost importance that iron ore and coal exports do not run into the same trouble as have many export primary products, in that continuing rising costs will price them out of the Japanese and world markets. If this happens with mineral exports Australia will face a serious depression because of the collapse of export income. 
According to  Mr Lang  Hancock, a well known Western Australian millionaire iron ore prospector, Japan is playing grand scale power politics with Australia to get greater control of Australian raw materials. According to him Japan wants increasing equity in Australian mining operations - a captive source of supply. He says that the Japanese have made it well known that they do not intend to be straightout buyers any more. He said also that they want to own some of the minerals and they will do anything to achieve this aim - industrial militancy, depression, anything'. He said that mineral exports now were a matter of power politics on an international scale. 
I want to raise one other aspect in the limited time available. It relates to the point made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  about synthetics. Several times I have made speeches on this subject in the Parliament. The last time I made such a speech neither the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  nor the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  was in the chamber. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  was here and I asked him to convey to either of the other 2 Ministers my query as to why it that imports of meat into Australia are occurring. I produced these 2 tins of meat that I have here. One is from Paraguay and one is from Argentina. This beef is coming into Australia. These 2 tins were sent to me by a cattle man in the electorate of Kennedy, as a matter of fact. It is a question of knowing why these ,are being admitted into the country. After all. if we are to start worrying about synthetic meats, we have to put our own house in order first. I do not agree with, the proposition that we should be banning .synthetic meat. This is a mistake. We have tried banning margarine. 
What I am saying is that we should ban imports, but I do not believe in banning synthetics in Australia. What we have to do is challenge synthetics. We learned the lesson with margarine and butter. It is only a question of time before butter and margarine are blended. We have learned the lesson with wool. If we had blended wool with synthetic fibres 10 years ago instead of recognising the advantages of this only a few months ago we would have been far better off. I believe that in the future we must look very closely at a similar arrangement for meat. In the end we may have to think of a scheme whereby if we cannot beat synthetics by challenges we can blend meat with synthetics, because this business of banning things will not succeed in the long run. Other countries have tired banning synthetics. Surely we can learn from the lessons of other countries. 
I make it quite clear that every primary producer in Australia wants to ban the import of cheese into Australia which the Minister for Trade and Industry will not ban and we want to ban the imports of beef also. Why should we be eating imported beef? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that major sectors of primary industry are now experiencing the worst financial crisis since the great depression 40 years ago and that even more serious problems will be experienced in the immediate future as conditions worsen and unemployment grows in country areas? Is it true that the right honourable gentleman has agreed to the Minister for Primary Industry going overseas for at least 2 months to attend a meeting of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, of which I believe he will be the Chairman? Of all the Ministers in the Government, it is the Minister for Primary Industry most of all who should be in Australia in the immediate future because of the rural crisis and in view of his ministerial responsibilities. Is this not an act of stupidity as well as a blatant contempt of the rural crisis? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 I move: 
 That all words alter That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of opinion that - 
the one-year emergency grant moneys available under the Bill should be directed only to those bona fide wool producers, big or small, who are genuinely in need of emergency finance, and 
the emergency finance should be complemented by legislation to (a) establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip, and (b) implement a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme to apply to those areas of wool production and marketing which are in urgent need of improvement and assistance'. 
The great majority of bona fide wool growers will receive little tangible benefit from the Government's 1-year wool subsidy which will cost at least $100m. This $100m grant should be devoted exclusively to those bona fide wool growers, big or small, who are in a desperate financial position with the principal objective being centred on progressive reconstruction and the alleviation of local debts. Most of this money will finish up with the banks, the pastoral houses and hire purchase companies which are already exerting pressure on growers to honour their debts. Indirectly, of course, the Commonwealth will also regain a share of these funds through taxation. A significant proportion of this money will be paid to affluent wool, wheat and cattle producers including companies whose financial position and assets do not justify the receipt of this one-year Commonwealth financial assistance. I stress all along that this is financial assistance for one year; it is not a long term subsidy, which would have quite different principle from those that I am enumerating now. This is at least $100m being given to the wool producers of Australia as an emergency grant with no strings attached. The principles are quite different from accepted principles of stabilisation or subsidies for a longer period. 
These funds will be paid to the thousands of professional and non-bona fide primary producers who are engaged in running sheep as a sideline for the purpose of major income tax benefits. The Government in effect is forcing the general faxpayers, especially those on lower incomes, to pay extra taxation this year to enable this money to be given to many people who are in an extremely affluent financial position. Under this legislation the Government will be giving taxpayers' money to people who are recognised as established millionaires and just as outrageous is the fact that the large amounts of money which will be paid to rich foreign owned companies engaged in wool production will finish up in the pockets of shareholders living in other parts of the world. A very serious consequence of this legislation is that a large proportion of the funds which will be paid indirectly to the banks, the pastoral houses and the hire purchase companies will be lost forever to country areas. This money will certainly not be re-loaned again to primary producers in country areas. It is more likely that it will be invested in, say, real estate in the middle of the cities. 
It is claimed, for example, that Dalgety Australia Ltd controls approximately 1 million sheep. This overseas owned company will receive a total cash subsidy which could be as high as $600,000. In addition, this company has first lien on wool sales, including the subsidy paid to thousands of producers, because the definition of a producer under this Bill is the person who owns the wool; he need not be the wool grower. If he has first lien on those wool sales, he is the legitimate producer, as defined in the Bill, and he will have direct access to this subsidy money. I believe that this is a blatant miscarriage of social justice. If Dalgety's were in desperate need of this cash subsidy, as is the case with large numbers of desperate wool growers and their families, then this company would He entitled to financial assistance. I do not argue against that, but it is reported that the company has just made a profit before taxation of $5m. 
The cash subsidy will also be paid to other rich and affluent companies, such as Elder Smith and Co. Ltd and the British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd, just to name two which run large numbers of sheep. I said previously that some millionaires would also be entitled to this cash subsidy. One individual interest in South Australia is alleged to control 12,000 bales of wool each year. The cash subsidy which will be paid to this person, or to his interests, will be at least $300,000. The total cash payment to be made by this Government only to those interests to which I have referred is equivalent to the total income tax paid by 2,000 married men and their families earning the average Australian wage. I believe that the Government is guilty of gross deceit and even political fraud. The Opposition fully supports the payment of this oneyear cash grant to those bona fide wool growers who have a genuine need of financial assistance to overcome a desperate financial position. 
If this SI 00m cash grant were distributed on the basis of real need, the Vast majority of wool growers would receive far greater benefits than they will now receive under this Government's scheme which so blatantly discriminates against the smaller family-owned wool property. Supplementary to this subsidy scheme should be the implementation of a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme to apply to those producers and areas of production and marketing which need reconstruction and assistance. The Opposition also believes, as stated in the amendment, that the third part of this scheme should be complementary to the establishment of a single marketing statutory authority  -  a strong buyer and a strong seller which would be given the authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip. This authority would operate within the provisions of a reserve price scheme, and I will talk about that later. 
So far as the overall Bill is concerned, it is not my intention at the second reading stage to debate at length the various clauses of the Bill, or the implementation of those clauses, because after all the Government's plan is different from that of the Opposition, and most of the clauses really are irrelevant when I am arguing in this way. But, nevertheless, at the Committee stage I should like to ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  certain questions. For example, with respect to private buying, I find it difficult to understand how the Government can discriminate against private buyers and the auction system. The Government is discriminating when one considers that the subsidy which could be 20 per cent or 25 per cent is actually levied, in the one instance - that is, the auction system - on gross sales and, as regards private selling, it is levied at the farm gate. 
Of course, it is argued that the costs of selling are significantly less under the private buying scheme than under the auction system, and that is true. It is argued also that under this system producers selling under the private buying scheme could receive more than the amount received by producers selling under the auction system, and this is true. But the . fact remains that there is discrimination in the payment of the subsidy, and this is an essential part of the Bill. Why is there this discrimination against private buyers. If the Government does npt like private buyers, then it should establish a statutory authority which has powers of acquisition. But the Government should not sit on the fence and have it both ways. It should not discriminate against any section of the community. 
I want to say a few words about the problems facing the wool industry itself. It is quite clear that the United States of America is the key in the immediate future to the progress of the wool industry in Australia. It is the largest consumer of wool in the world. Although relatively, it does not import large quantities of raw wool it does import very large quantities of woollen products, particularly from Japan, Italy, Europe and the United Kingdom. It is quite clear that the international monetary problem has an effect on our exports directly to the United States, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it has an effect on our exports to the countries which manufacture consumer goods for sale to the United States. It is clear that on these 2 counts Australia is heavily dependent on America both directly and indirectly because Australia is exporting raw wool to the other countries. 
The Americans have imposed a tariff on our greasy wool. In addition, an extra 10 per cent surcharge has been imposed on those commodities which bear this tariff, and greasy wool is one of them. There is also a 10 per cent surcharge on the importation of woollen textiles into America. Thus Australia is affected in both ways. There is the effect on the one hand, on demand from Japan and the other manufacturing countries and, on the other hand, on direct sales of raw wool to America. In addition, we have the problem that large contracts are made in American dollars. Contracts in relation to our greasy wool sold to Japan are in United States dollars. Contracts in relation to our greasy wool which is shipped to Europe are in United States dollars. Everybody knows that with a time lag of, say, 9 to 15 months before raw wool is converted into the finished product, the wool buyer himself is in a quandary in knowing what price he should pay under the auction system, as we have it today and which is the basis of this whole scheme, and with the international monetary problem which makes it difficult to know what is the true level of the dollar in relation to other currencies. Is it any wonder that we have problems with respect to the price and the quantity of wool bought. It is obvious that buyers are buying as low as possible in terms of quantity and price. In addition, of course, the entire world textile industry covering synthetic products as well as woollen products, is facing degrees of difficulty. 
Let me deal with the organisation of the wool industry itself. The organisation of wool marketing and wool administration can be described only as archaic and inefficient. In fact, it is a disgrace. Wool growers have been led by the nose by this Government and, I am sorry to say, by a lot of industry leaders, to the brink of economic disaster through sheer and gross inefficiency in wool marketing and administration at high levels. Let us look at the position. We have the International Wool Secretariat whose function is to promote wool throughout the globe - with very little power other than that. We have the Australian Wool Board which also has the responsibility for promoting wool throughout the world. It has some powers in respect of research and periodical investiga- tions in relation to marketing. We have the Australian Wool Commission which has certain powers. It is obvious that the most constructive move which can be made is to bring the management or the powers directing the production and marketing of wool in Australia under one head in one coherent body. The only way this can be done is by means of a single statutory marketing authority. Such an authority has proved successful in every other major industry marketing primary products. But, of course, the Government is tied so much to the pastoral houses, the private banks, the hire purchase companies and the brokers, and there is such violent vested opposition to this scheme, that it does nothing but procrastinate. 
What amazes me is that when we are out on the stump we hear that the Country Party is all for a single statutory marketing authority, but when its members are in Parliament, as we have seen in the last 18 months, they remain silent about it. If the Country Party believes in a single statutory marketing authority surely it has the numbers when voting with the Opposition to get what it wants, but it will not do this, lt annoys me to hear Country Party members of this Parliament speaking to farmers in their own electorate - I have heard them - indicating that they are 100 per cent behind a statutory marketing authority when they will not say a word in favour of such an authority in this Parliament. It is obvious that the Australian wool industry is in a very serious economic condition. No-one in this Parliament will refute that. Does the Government really believe that this scheme, which will cost the taxpayers of Australia at least $100m, is the bes) way to achieve the most constructive and progressive measures for the wool industry? 1 do not think anybody can argue legitimately that it is. 
In reply to questions I have asked in the Parliament and in other places, it has been argued that the reason this $100m scheme could not be directed solely to those wool producers who are in desperate need - whose need is bona fide in every sense of the word - is that we cannot tell who are those in need and who are those not in need. Does this Government believe that an accountant looking at the balance sheet of a foreign or Australian company which is running sheep in this country, could not tell whether the company's assets or liquidity justified its sharing in this subsidy? This is what the Government is trying to tell us. No-one could possibly agree with it because when we look at the proposed distribution of this money we find that approximately 170 producers in Australia who are running over 20,000 sheep will get $4m. Will anybody tell me that the Government could not look at the balance sheets of those producers to determine whether they are entitled to this one year grant? Will anybody say that the Government could not look at the balance sheets of British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd, Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd, or Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Ltd and in 5 minutes know whether they are entitled to a subsidy? This is what the Government is saying it cannot do. 
Surely if there is any economic justice in this country the payment of a one year emergency cash grant with no strings attached should be made to those producers who need it most providing - I stress this - that there is some direction from the Government regarding reconstruction. I emphasise that it should not be the aim of the Government to reduce the wool industry of Australia to the equivalent of the dairying industry by granting long term subsidies and increasing the number of marginal producers throughout Australia. That is what we must guard against. What I am emphasising here is that this $10Om should be concentrated on those producers who need it most while at the same time we should apply the principles of reconstruction and rehabilitation, which are just as important. I cannot see how the Government can argue logically against that proposition. 
There are many clauses in this Bill which we can deal with in the Committee stage but there is one matter, which I touched on before, that I must emphasise and that is the propriety of the first lien. It is proposed that any body or person, whether it be a bank, hire purchase company or a back alley money lender, shall have a first lien on the sales of a producer. Under this Bill they are protected by definition and entitled to have the full subsidy paid to them providing, of course, the producer's debt to them is greater than the total value of his wool sales. 
I have already told the Minister that I would incorporate in the legislation a provision relating to specific, not general moratoria, to stop large money lenders who have loaned at exorbitant rates of interest to producers who had no option but to borrow from them, and then let the Government make a judgment, as it did during the depression years, on individual cases. The Government will not in this way, as it has suggested, tie up the industry. It will not do this. This was made clear from the investigations of the reconstruction commission after the war. Specific moratoria are quite different from general moratoria. I, and I think most people, believe that if companies have been guilty of lending to primary producers irrationally at high rates of interest those companies, not the Australian taxpayer, should bear some proportion of the national loss. That is the basic principle behind specific moratoria. It has worked before in Australia and it has worked in other countries. 
I fail to see why this Government should bring in legislation which will simply transfer taxpayers' money straight into the hands of affluent companies, many of them foreign owned, simply because those companies have a first lien on the wool sales. Let nobody try to tell me that the private banking sector in this country is so broke that it could not carry these producers for at least another 12 months until the whole wool marketing system was changed to operate on some rational basis. The Australian Labor Party believes that there is an urgent need for the Commonwealth to take immediate and positive action to restore the wool industry to the former strong and viable financial position it occupied in the Australian economy. The decided comparative advantage enjoyed by Australian woolgrowers over those in other wool producing countries is being eroded at an alarming rate. The deteriorating economic condition of the industry has been caused, on the one hand, by the insidious increase in costs and, on the other hand, by the progressive decline in the average price of wool. 
The Opposition recognises that there must be a radical change in the appraisal and marketing of WOOl. We accept the fact that the only way in which a statutory marketing authority could operate as efficiently as possible would be by the complementary use of, say, core testing or objective measurement. We accept that, but let us do something about it to accelerate its introduction. Let us have a plan. If we are going to concentrate in the future on an objective measurement then let us have some legislation and some finance directed towards accelerating this method and let it be complimentary to a statutory authority. 
Labor's wool policy embraces, as I keep hammering, a statutory wool authority to acquire, appraise and market the whole of the Australian wool clip, not just parts of it. I have mentioned the reconstruction scheme. Surely all of us will agree that this is fundamental to it. No-one is going to tell this House that the present reconstruction schemes in Australia are either speedy or effective. My friend the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  asked a question yesterday on the viability of the rural reconstruction scheme in New South Wales. It is pitiful to see what is happening in New South Wales and in other States regarding reconstruction. The machinery is just not there. The Commonwealth has to step in in a big way to assist the States and the wool industry in streamlining not only the production and marketing techniques in wool but also in streamlining reconstruction and rehabilitation at the same time. lt is easy for me or for any other person to put forward schemes. The Opposition knows that. We have been criticised for it. But the present system of producing and marketing wool is archaic and inefficient. I am certain that this legislation will do nothing constructive in overcoming those basic physical problems. Something radical and revolutionary must be done before the whole wool industry collapses to such a degree that it will cost the Australian taxpayer so much money as to be a major drain on the Australian economy. I for one completely support the wool industry. I am not a pessimist who says that it is doomed, although after studying the relationship of wool and synthetics I believe that the position of wool in the future is going to be tougher. It could perhaps finish up, as I have said in this House before, with the same relationship to synthetics as fillet steak has to other beef - an exclusive, high-priced, magnificent product. But there will not be available as great a quantity of woollen goods as there will be of synthetics, as is the case with fillet steak and the cheaper cuts of meat. 
We must guard against that situation. I believe that the only way to do it is to have a very strong single statutory marketing authority which would bring under one strong management the management of wool in Australia and our woollen interests overseas. The authority would make the decisions without having to go back to the wool industry all the time and have the wool industry' people fight among themselves, as they have been doing perpetually, before reaching a decision. Often those decisions are not unanimous. We should have competent men running a statutory authority, negotiating shipping rates, writing contracts in the currency most favourable to Australia, actually owning the wool, entering into bilateral agreements with foreign countries by going directly to Russia, China or some other place and trying to sell the type of wool that those countries want. But this cannot be done under the present legislation. The Australian Wool Board has no authority over the wool. Although it is written into the Act, there is some doubt about whether the Australian Wool Industry Commission can negotiate directly with foreign countries. We know that all these things are needed urgently. I do not think anyone would argue against that. The question is: How do we do it, and how do we do it quickly? Time is running out. I can remember saying in this House perhaps 18 months or 2 years ago that time was running out. The only thing is that there is less time now. If a panic started in the wool industry through trustee companies or some other companies starting to put the pressure on and to foreclose, we would see a run in this country, because of the tremendous debt structure, which would parallel what happened in the depression. If we do not have to deal with it, the Commonwealth machinery that we had in the depression, the position of wool will be far worse than it was 40 years ago - unless we do something constructive in the production and marketing fields now. 
I think the easiest way to deal with the Bill in Committee is to take it as a whole rather than clause by clause. When I first looked at this Bill I had intended to move a series of amendments but I find that these would have been superfluous in terms of the amendment moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I take this opportunity to congratulate the draftsmen and the officers of the Department of Primary Industry concerned with the drafting of the Bill. It is one of the most difficult Bills to come before this Parliament for a long time as regards interpretation of clauses and there seems little doubt that it must have caused the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and others some problems in drafting because of the tremendous complexities in the Bill with respect to registration, the rate of deficiency payments and the peculiar definitions involved. I compliment those officers who are responsible for it. 
I have no doubt that when the Bill becomes law there will be problems because of its complexity, particularly with regard to deficiency payments, excluded wools and the Schedules in relation to private selling arrangements. But taken by and large the Bill is an excellent piece of drafting. The first clause about which I seek clarification is clause 4 which is the definition clause. The definition of producer reads in part:   . . the person who owns the wool immediately after it is shorn; 
I can only assume that this means that any person who has a security, equity, lien, mortgage or whatever it might be on the wool is in fact, under the definition, the legal producer of the wool. In other words, if a company has a first lien on wool sales, under this definition that company is the producer. This is also set out in clause 9. I dealt with this point at some length during the debate on the second reading and said that in fact in a large number of cases the producer would not see any of the subsidy. It will in fact, go straight to those companies to which the producer owes money. 
I have a question relating to PAP wool and the wool referred to in sub-clauses 6 (3.) and 6 (4.). How does this clause work in relation to inferior wools? Who actually will take the responsibility for the appraisal and identification of inferior wools and the responsibility for selling them? In relation to clause 6(3.), what is to stop a private buyer from recirculating the wool? The deficiency payment is paid on the sale but under the private system what safeguards has the Commonwealth to stop wool which is the subject of private transactions from being illegally resold, in other words, from circulating all the time, still reciving a subsidy? How do we stop this? It seems to be that clause 6 (S.) will be difficult to administer because some of the butchers I know are pretty good Ned Kellys. I would like to know how the Department will police some of these butcher friends that I have in north western Queensland and to prove that they have held sheep for less than 3 months. If they have held them for more than 3 months they are entitled to the subsidy and I think we will find that all of the people who buy sheep for slaughter, particularly around Cloncurry and other places will have had those sheep for 3 months. 
Clause 9 relates to the producer of wool, the point on which I first questioned the Minister. Under the definition the producer of the wool is in fact the person who owns the wool and the owner of the wool can be a person who has a mortgage or a first lien on the wool sold. These are the important points that I wish to raise. 1 have many more but I do not want to take up the time of the Committee; I think I can get most of the answers from the Department. I thank the Minister for the assistance that his officers have given me. The only other point that I have relates to clause 7 which deals with excluded inferior wools. I find this clause a little diifficult to understand. I think that the Government would have had a much better Bill if it had included all wools. I think the Minister has defeated the purpose of the original objective. Originally it was intended to take out the burry wools and surely the objective was to reduce the production of these inferior wools. Without doubt some type of pressure has been put on the Minister or the Government and these burry wools are now included. I can see little point in including these other wools - the crutchings, the bellies, .the pieces and so forth - because they all will be produced anyhow. I do not see what the Minister is really achieving except a hell of a headache for himself and his Department in trying to administer this scheme. In my opinion  he  would have done  far better  if  he  had included  the  lot. 
I rise tonight to refer to a subject which has concerned me now for 12 months and which must cause one to question the efficiency of the Department of the Army. It concerns a national serviceman who was accidentally killed in Victoria. 
I am sorry. It concerns an apprentice who was accidentally killed in Victoria. For 12 months the parents of this boy have been trying to get an inquest into his death but they have not yet succeeded. On 10th September 1970, apprentice Colin Jackson of Mount Charlton, near Mackay, was performing an assisted front somersault with a forward roll as part of a progressive series of gymnastic exercises. A qualified physical training instructor was positioned and was supervising the training of this boy. Unfortunately for the boy, during the physical training exercises something happened and he had a serious fall. He was subsequently transferred to the Austin Hospital in Heidelberg where he was admitted with spinal injuries. He died in the hospital at 12.20 p.m. on 23rd September 1970 as a result of his injuries. 
During the period that he was hospitalised his mother and father travelled south to visit him. They were looked after by the Army and they have no complaint in that respect. The boy's body was sent to Mackay in North Queensland. I understand that were were problems in getting his body to Mackay in time for the funeral because of a strike in Sydney, but through the good offices of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  and particularly with the assistance of his private secretary and the courtesy of Trans-Australia Airlines who broke a few rules, the problems were overcome. The parents were satisfied. I had told them, and the Minister had informed me in writing, that there would be a coroner's inquest and that the parents would be advised when this was to take place. Naturally one believes that an inquest will take place fairly quickly after a death.  Mr and Mrs Jackson  approached me several times during the next few months and inquired when the inquest would be held. They also asked me whether they could be represented at the inquest. The Minister for the Army again advised me that no date had yet been fixed and said that it was a matter entirely for the parents as to whether they would be represented at the inquest. That advice was given on 28th January 1971, approximately 10 months ago. 
After waiting for about 6 months, the parents started to get extremely agitated, as one would expect. I sent a telegram to the Minister for the Army pointing out that the parents of the deceased were most concerned at the long delay. I received a telegram in reply from the Minister saying that inquiries had been made of the Crown Solicitor's Office in Melbourne concerning the date of an inquest into the death of apprentice Colin Jackson but it had advised that a date could not yet be given and when a date had been set for the inquest, be would notify me. That was on- 4th August. After more inquiries, I was then informed by the Minister that the delay was not the fault of the Department of the Army. Apparently the reason for the delay was that the coroner's court in Melbourne bad not received a report of the death from the Mornington police. It would seem, therefore, that the blame now rests with the Victoria Police. The Minister said that, according to the Crown Solicitor's Office in Melbourne, the coroner's office was very concerned about the delay and had requested that the report be forwarded as soon as possible. However, it is now October and after repeated requests - almost every week - I am no further advanced and neither are the parents. In summary, despite repeated requests by the parents of the soldier, the Army still has not seen fit to arrange an inquest. Worse still, I cannot accept the reasons given by the Minister for this delay. I could accept them for some months perhaps but not for a period of 12 months. 
Perhaps this delay of 12 months is the fault of the Victorian police. I do not know to this day whether the Mornington police have made a report, but there is something very wrong when a person can be accidentally killed and 12 months later the Victorian police still have not furnished a report. This is particularly so if the person concerned happens to be somebody who comes under the province of the Department of the Army. Incredible as it may seem, neither the Army nor the police has been able to secure a report on this accident which can be acted upon by the coroner. During all this time, the parents have had to experience heartbreaking distress while the authorities have adopted what must be called a very callous disregard for all the pleas for an official inquest. The boy cannot be brought back to life. He is dead. But we must have some feelings for the parents. Surely after 12 months one would expect that in all decency the whole matter would be finalised. 
I did not want to raise this matter in the Parliament, but 1 am under pressure from the parents and other relatives. I did warn the Minister's office that if I did not get a suitable reply I would have no alternative than to raise it in the Parliament, and this is what I have had to do. I do not think it is good enough to put the blame on the Victorian police on the one hand or to put up with this as an excuse on the other hand for 12 months. From the point of view of the Commonwealth it is simply not good enough treatment of anybody who happens to be in the Army. I believe that if the Government, the Minister or the Department of the Army really had cared and had gone into this matter carefully and sincerely some action might have been taken. I say this to the Minister: If this is not cleared up quickly I will get the permission of my Party to take some drastic action in this Parliament in relation to this case. 
 Mr Act  ing Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I also wish to support the reference. I do not think there can be any doubt that the Barkly and Stuart Highways must be regarded as 2 of the most remarkable highways in Australia. The greater part of the mileage of these highways was constructed during the war by the Civil Construction Corps, if 1 remember rightly. 
Yes. But ! think the CCC supervised the construction. 
I agree. I do not know of any  one  highway in Australia that had a better record of construction in respect of time and standard than these 2 highways. They are a remarkable achievement of Australian engineering and provide evidence of the remarkable dedication of the work force. The 2 highways withstood a tremendous load during the war and this has been the case since the war. As the honourable members for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  well  know,  frequent breakthroughs have been caused by heavy axle loading. There have been occasions when the back wheels of trucks have suddenly gone straight through the bitumen because of soaks,  or  other causes, which have caused a break down  of  the structure under the bitumen. 
However, taken by and large the 2 highways are really remarkable pieces of engineering. I agree entirely with the honourable member for Wakefield, who is the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, that it would be a good thing  if  the Committee or some government instrumentality some day could put in writing for the information  of  posterity the history of these 2 roads because I  do  not think that there  is  any single act which has helped to develop the Northern Territory more since the war than these 2 arterial highways which link Darwin with Alice Springs and the railways south, and eastwards, of course, from Tennant Creek to Camooweal and Mount Isa. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This Bill is concerned with one further step forward in the development of the water resources of Australia. It applies specifically to the construction of a pipeline to provide water to the wheat and sheep zones of Western Australia. The original Bill was based on an estimated cost of $21m. This estimate has now been increased to $24m which, under the dollar for dollar formula agreed to previously by the Parliament, would mean that the Commonwealth's share has increased from $10.5m to $12m. The scheme will provide water directly and indirectly to approximately 3.5 to 4 million acres and in the main the principal beneficiary of this water will be stock used for wool production. However, the water will supply large and small towns in the northern and southern parts of the wheat and sheep zones of Western Australia and will contribute greatly to better living conditions for the people in those areas. 
The 2 main dams in this project are the Mundaring Weir in the north and the Wellington Dam in the south. The Mundaring Weir will serve an area from Dalwallinu in the north, including Meckering and Quairading and in the southern part of the area the Wellington Dam will serve Wickepin and extend as far northwest as places such as Kondinin. The interesting observation which one must make is that this scheme is basically to provide water facilities for the wool industry. When one looks at the cost benefit analysis made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics some years ago it is interesting to compare the assumptions made at that time with what happens now.  I  would like to point out, as I have done many times in the Parliament, the grave dangers in the use of cost-benefit analyses in isolation, that is, by simply analysing  a  development project by the use of the so-called cost-benefit analysis and drawing conclusions from that result. I have always maintained that this is a highly dangerous practice because the principles underlying cost-benefit analyses are designed to carry out an economic evaluation of alternatives at one point of time, preferably alternatives of like projects, so that  a  government, if that is the body making the decision, can then make the best economic decision or, if it wants to bring other variables into it, provide a certain amount of money for a number of projects. When we are dealing with one project only and making one cost-benefit analysis we always run the risk of that not being the best project at the time. 
I do not intend to go into this very deeply because it is really a technical argument, but I wish to illustrate this point: When this economic analysis was made several years ago, and it was a good analysis, it was based on certain assumptions the most important of which was a wool price of 60c a pound. The whole economic argument flowed from that figure. The costbenefit was calculated and then, of course, the various ratios were ascertained. It was found that with a price of 60c per lb the project was economic. With a reduction of 5 per cent in the price of wool or the price of wheat, the cost-benefit ratio was approximately 1.23 or 1.21, depending on which criterion one took. If there were a reduction of 20 per cent in the price of the commodities, which would mean that there would be a wool price of 48c per lb, the cost-benefit ratio would be less than 1 per cent, approximately 0.8 per cent, which would suggest that the project was uneconomic. One can only draw conclusions if this same evaluation took place today when the wool price is 30c per lb or less, as to whether the project would be economic in this narrow sense. Also, costs have risen significantly since this economic analysis was made. If one were to take those two variables - a wool price of 30c per lb and a significant increase in costs - and work on exactly the same assumptions one would get a different answer. I am simply trying to illustrate the danger in the use of benefit cost analysis on a single project. I will continue to hammer this point in the Parliament: It is an incorrect usage of the benefit cost analysis. The correct usage is an evaluation of alternatives, not of a single project. 
One could make an accounting analysis of a single project as a firm wanting to invest a certain amount of money would do to find the rate of return on capital. There is nothing wrong with that. But it is not correct to use a benefit cost analysis in this case. A number of like alternatives should be taken. This is the accepted practice overseas and I believe that it should also be followed in Australia. The Bill is a most important one. It is of extreme importance to Western Australia. It is part of an overall programme of water conservation throughout Australia. There is now developing, particularly in the intensive agricultural districts - for example, in my own State - an attitude of complacency towards the need for progressive water conservation because there has been a good run of seasons. I suppose this is characteristic when one has to impress upon governments the need for urgent action on water conservation. 
Most of the sugar areas in Queensland have had the benefit of 3 reasonably good seasons, but the law of probability, based on bitter experience, is that there is another drought around the corner. This applies particularly to those areas which are highly susceptible to drought. The heavy losses which have been experienced for generations in the coastal Burnett areas, for example, will be minimised because we now have a progressive water conservation scheme. Other intensive agriculture areas such as the Burdekin, the Pioneer Valley and the Fitzroy Basin will face further heavy losses unless water conservation projects are implemented by the Federal and State governments. The continued silence of the Government on the matter of a national water conservation programme is disturbing. All of the areas in coastal Queensland which have an urgent need for water conservation really rely on the 2 basic industries of sugar and beef which at the present time are the 2 bright spots in Australia's future. Let me speak now about water conservation in northern Queensland. Water conservation is essential not only for the primary industries covered by the Bill but also for industrialisation. For example, Townsville is obviously dependent on water for its future growth. 
I admit that. One of the big factors in the development of Townsville has been the Army. The development of the giant coal complex in the Pioneer Valley of the Mackay hinterland will also depend on water conservation. With the development of industrial complexes come industrial processing plants, and all of these industrial processing plants need water. I believe that pressure should be exerted continually on both the Federal and State governments to implement soundly based water conservation projects, particularly in those areas in which there are recurring droughts. History has shown that the lack of water in these areas has resulted in huge economic losses. 
We have had many debates on water conservation in this Parliament and honourable members could speak on it tonight at great length. But the point I want to make with respect to this Bill is, first of all, that the Opposition supports it, despite the remarks I have made about the benefit cost analysis in this particular project. If the evaluation had been carried out now instead of, say, 5 years ago and based on the same assumptions as it was based on then - for example, a wool price of 60c per lb - we might not have had this water conservation scheme. According to my friends in the Treasury with whom I have often had great arguments, the chances are that we would not have had the scheme. They would have had too many arguments as to why we should not have it. In my opinion, the project is a good one and time will show that this investment in water in Western Australia is a good investment, as it will show for every other investment in water in Australia. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  always has a smile on his face when we talk about water. Obviously, water conservation in country areas is one of his pet hates. He likes water conservation for the cities that are protected by tremendous tariffs, of course, but when it comes to water conservation for the country areas he is always able to put up some argument against it. Luckily there are not many members like the honourable member for Bradfield. The great majority of members of this Parliament support fully the need for water conservation in Australia. Quite certainly as the population of this nation increases at its present rate the key resource will be water. The cities such as Newcastle, Sydney, Wollongong, Melbourne and Geelong will certainly be short of water in 15 or 20 years time. They will probably be using desalination techniques. But one thing is certain: For the progressive development of this nation we must have more water conservation. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, in your area of northern New South Wales and in my own area of coastal Queensland there is perhaps the greatest potential for intensive agriculture and industrialisation. I suppose that one could argue validly now that industrialisation is more important in the short term than agriculture, because of the uncertainties of the market overseas. But certainly in those established areas which are losing great amounts of export income there is a case for water conservation based on sound economic principles for the future, not for the short term. If we follow a progressive policy of water conservation in Australia, as most people and most members of this Parliament would like to see, based again on sound principles, Australia will prosper. 
If there is one thing that really annoys me it is the tremendous amount of criticism being levelled at water conservation projects. Let us take the example of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme which is one of the more recent ones. It can be shown in black and white that the cumulative value of the losses alone in the last 20 years, on export-import parity prices - not the subsidised prices - is greater than the capital costs of the headworks of the project, discounted over SO years at the ruling rate of interest. This proposition in new areas such as the Ord River and the Nogoa or Fairbairn Dam is quite different from the proposition of building an irrigation project in an established area. Quite a different set of principles is involved. They are the same principles as the Liberal Party applies when it builds new dams for Sydney or Melbourne. One never hears a word of criticism of them in the Parliament despite the fact that the whole economy of, say, Sydney or Melbourne or the complexes around them might be heavily dependent on tariffs. Of course, it is easy to criticise a subsidy to primary industry but the same people do not criticise tariffs which protect the cities. The analogy here is simple. Regarding water conservation, let us take the Chowilla Dam as an example. Should there not have been a cost benefit analysis of the Chowilla Dam? This would have been most interesting. 
To sum up, the Bill is a simple one because it increases the Commonwealth commitment from $10. 5m to $12m on a $1 for $1 basis because of escalating costs in the construction of the pipelines from the Wellington and Mundaring weirs to serve the wheat and sheep areas of Western Australia. This is the whole basis of the Bill. I thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  for allowing me to speak at some length on other aspects of water conservation, but  1  think you will agree that water is something which is extremely dear to most of us. It is something on which we in this Parliament who are interested in it never fail to speak our mind and to ask for a greater and greater acceleration of funds keeping in mind, of course, that expenditure must be based on sound principles. I know some honourable members will take me to task about sound principles, but I will stand by any project that I have been associated with. I challenge anybody in the Parliament to tell me of any water conservation project in Australia, or in the world for that matter, that has been an economic failure. After about 10 years we always hear the same story, that there is not enough water. For those who want to criticise, say, the Ord River let me point out that the Japanese- 
The Government has been in office for  22  years now and there is still no public or publicised plan for the political advancement or development of the Northern Territory. We have seen in this period repeated conferences between members or delegates of the Legislative Council and the Government. There have been some advances but on the whole one can say that there have been only ad hoc, uncoordinated, stop-go political policies which are not in the best interests of the Northern Territory. In Papua New Guinea Australia has done a lot. It should do more. But in the field of political development we have done very little in the Northern Territory compared with what we have achieved in Papua New Guinea. What is needed, of course, is a progressive step by step plan; this is a pre-requisite to political development in the Northern Territory. 
One of the basic objectives, and certainly one which is followed by the Australian Labor Party, should be to provide a fully elected Legislative Council. This would entail the gradual replacement of the official members of the Council. One can postulate what should be the number, but from experience possibly  15, 16  or  17  would be a fair number at present. This would mean the virtual full replacement of the official members but this would be advisable. The last 2 to go would be the Crown Law officer of the Northern Territory and an Assistant Administrator, who would have a broad knowledge of and links with the Northern Territory Administration. 
This would gradually lead- to the appointment in the Northern Territory of Council Ministers. Some call them political secretaries or some other type of secretaries. There are 3 broad categories of administration for which they could administer and be responsible. Firstly, there are the branches which could be categorised as local branches, and these would include, for example, the police and prisons. Secondly, there would be the statutory boards with which we are familiar and which would have responsibility for water, power, sewerage, fisheries, residential lands, motor vehicles, cold stores, wildlife, etc. They would be statutory boards which the Legislative Council would be fully competent to administer. The third category is a dicey one - the Treasury. It could be broken into 2 parts, one dealing with the collection of revenue from the Northern Territory and one embracing the first 2 categories I mentioned, namely, local branches and statutory boards. I think that this would be a step in the right direction and one which could be achieved. When it came to the broader field of policy which involves the Commonwealth and direct participation by Canberra for the time being, then there would have to be a Treasury in a 2-tier structure. One tier of the structure would deal with Northern Territory revenue and the disbursement of funds, the legal branches and the statutory boards, and the other would deal with the Commonwealth itself. 
Yes. Of course, there would have to be a Cabinet in the Northern Territory - as we have here - which would be responsible to the Legislative Council. The other arm would work directly in liaison with Canberra through the Administrator. This would be the governor type of function. I believe that this is the situation we should aim for. This should be the plan. Ancillary to this situation would be the gradual transfer to the Northern Territory of the Commonwealth public servants and the State-type functions as opposed to the Canberra-type functions. I am not professing to put this forward as a new proposition. It is well known to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  and to the previous Minister. I believe that something progressive has to be done to let the people of the Northern Territory know that the Government intends to act or think in this way, because it is needed. I think it is really a scandal that the people of the Northern Territory do not have the right to participate in referenda or Senate elections, particularly when we realise - this is from memory - that prior to 1911 they had these rights. The people of the Northern Territory are fully entitled to these rights. 
The other aspect on which I want to touch is in relation to freights. It is quite obvious that the increasing level of freight rates is fast becoming one of the most important influences inhibiting the rate of growth in country areas, particularly in northern Australia. Tonight we are speaking of the Northern Territory. In the north we see the location of capital cities such as Brisbane and Darwin. Centres of population a long way from the capital cities are affected most because' the Commonwealth has one of the most iniquitous policies imaginable, namely, charging sales tax on freights. The further a person lives from the Australian capital cities the more he has to pay for his goods. One of the factors causing this situation is that the Government allows sales tax to be levied on the cost of freight. This is absurd and harsh. I shall give an illustration in relation to my State of Queensland. I doubt whether most honourable members know that Melbourne is closer to Brisbane than is Cairns. One can see how sales tax on freight rates affects the total cost when the tax is taken into account. This increase in freights is becoming a major problem in northern Australia, particularly in relation to primary products and minerals. We see this situation happening all the time. Five years ago the Loder Committee published a report in which it recommended alleviating the freight problems of people in northern Australia, particularly those living a long way from capital cities. Recommendations were made, but this Government has not bothered to act on them. 
A most important point - unfortunately we have not sufficient time to talk about it - is what is to happen to the State Shipping Service between Western Australia and Darwin? This matter will be a major problem in the immediate future. If there is not to be a continuation of the shipping service to Darwin, either it will have to receive its goods by road transport or air transport, or it will import goods. When one considers that the total exports from Western Australia to Darwin are worth approximately $7m, one can see the ramifications of the amount of goods and services involved. Admittedly, in the last financial year the State Shipping Service operated at a loss of $4.8m, and this Government has decided that it will not help the Western Australian Government in regard to this Shipping Service. But more importantly, as far as this debate is concerned, this Government decided that it will not help the people of Darwin, because it has turned down a request for the provision of approximately S470,000 to subsidise, in part, the Western Australian State Shipping Service to allow its ships to go on to Darwin, and it has also turned down a request to build a new ship, which would have cost approximately S2.5m. 
In this debate we are concentrating particularly on the Northern Territory, but all these matters are extremely important to the people of Darwin who are entitled to know what will happen to them in the future as far as importing goods from Western Australia is concerned, because that is their main source of commodities. At the present time they know that the State Shipping Service will not provide ships for the Darwin run, which is important to them. I hope that tonight the Minister for the Interior can throw some light on this subject. Although he may say, legitimately, that this matter comes within the province of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  I believe that he must recognise that indirectly this matter is of paramount importance to the people of the Northern, Territory, and particularly to the people of Darwin, because the cost of goods and services is most important in this area. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I move: 
That the clause be postponed. 
I do so as an instruction to the Government to provide for the payment of the bounty to be extended until 31st December 1974. The reasons for the Opposition's proposed amendment to the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill and the projected similar amendment to the Pyrites Bounty Bill have been given by myself and by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  and they have been reinforced by the Tariff Board itself. The Tariff Board presented a report on sulphur-bearing materials on 31st August 1967. In discussing the questions of compensation and the period of the Commonwealth's obligation to provide further sulphuric acid and pyrites bounties, the Tariff Board said: 
As an alternative to compensation based on the loss on realisation of assets, compensation may be assessed on the loss of earnings subsequent to the loss of markets. This consideration could be inherent in the Government's undertaking to protect the industry against imports of cheap brimstone. If the Government were to accept compensation on this basis, the Board considers that it would be reasonable to relate compensation to an assessment of what the companies could reasonably have been expected to earn had their markets remained for the duration of the Government's obligation and had they thus been eligible for bounty, where payable in terms of the current legislation. 
In stating the period of obligation - and this, of course, really makes the assumption that the Government has an obligation, and I believe it has, and I also believe that the Government demonstrated implicitly that it has when it made the prior judgment to extend the bounty - the Board stated: 
In setting the period of obligation, the Board is of the opinion that 20 years would be reasonable. According to witnesses, this is about the average life of a pyrites plant with norma] maintenance. In selecting the period of 20 years, the Board is mindful that the Government has never committed itself as to the duration of its obligation to the industry. 
And we of the Opposition believe that the Government has accepted this obligation and that now it is doing a somersault and going back on its previous decision-  the Board suggests that it commence from 1954- 1955, when most production commenced under the scheme of encouragement. 
This is the important point: 
This would mean that the Government's obligation still has 7 years to run, i.e. until 1974. 
There it is in black and white in relation to the pyrites bounty and the sulphuric acid bounty. No doubt the Government's answer will be that at no stage has it given an assurance to these companies that it has an obligation for the period suggested in the Tariff Board's report. 1 think this is very close to double dealing. It is a most underhand way of doing things, because the companies involved believed that this bounty would be paid at least until 1974, and they had the Tariff Board's arguments to reinforce their belief. Here we see this double dealing. There was a further investigation by the Tariff Board two or three years after this expression in 1967, and another decision was made. The Tariff Board is free to make another decision, but I do not believe that the Government is free to do so because it implicitly announced its obligation to the companies involved. It is for that reason that the Opposition has moved this amendment which asks that the clause be postponed. We cannot move a direct amendment because that would mean increasing the Commonwealth's liability in terms of money. We are asking that the clause be postponed as an instruction to the Government to provide for the payment of the bounty to be extended until 31st December 1974. 
The purpose of the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill and the Pyrites Bounty Bill is to extend the operations of the 2 relevant Acts until 31st May 1972. The provisions in the Bills follow the principles and recommendations which were contained in the report of the Tariff Board which was released on 20th May 1971. The history of assistance provided by pyrites and sulphuric acid Bills goes back for some years. Originally the Tariff Board was concerned with references in relation to applications made by Mount Morgan and Norseman. In the early 1950s there was a worldwide shortage of elemental sulphur or brimstone which is the basic raw material for the manufacture of sulphuric acid. Also, this raw material is basic to the production of fertilisers in Australia, particularly phosphatic fertilisers. The situation in the mid- 1950s was that there had been an improvement, according to the Tariff Board's report, in the supply of brimstone. Further inquiries have been made through the years in relation to pyrites and sulphuric acid to determine what assistance by way of bounty and subsidy should be made. 
The Opposition is not happy with the present arrangement and it will move 2 amendments during the Committee stages to both Bills. Our principal argument is this: The Bills are hopelessly out of date. They are based on a Tariff Board report, in respect of which the reference was given to the Tariff Board in 1968, evidence was taken throughout 1969 and the report was completed towards the middle of 1970. It has not been until the last few months that the Parliament has seen the report and these recommendations. But in actual fact the whole substance of the report and the recomendations flowing from the Tariff Board's investigations apply to a position in 1 969, which was 2 years ago. 
The 3 producers of pyrites are Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia Ltd, Mount Lyall and Zeehan Nairn; the first two supply North-West Acid in the northern part of Tasmania. Of course, these producers are concerned in decisions made by the Tariff Board. But one thing that is clear is that the whole case rests on the relationship of costs of production in Australia to the relevant world price of the raw material, whether one refers to it in terms of undumped import parity price or the average import parity price. When evidence was being taken in 1969, it seemed quite clear that the Tariff Board inferred that assistance could not be justified until the imported price of brimstone fell below $28 a ton. At that time the relative imported price of sulphur was approximately. S45 to $46 a ton. 
The position is quite different now. There has been a very significant decrease in the world price, or the imported price, of sulphur. The price today is more like $25, S26 or S27 a ton. So, on pure logic alone, by just following the arguments put forward by the Tariff Board, we claim that this Bill should not have been brought into this House for the purpose of phasing out assistance. There should be in fact a continuation of the bounty. This is what should happen if we apply logic to the Tariff Board's arguments. 
The cold facts are that the Tariff Board's investigations are 2 years out of date when we have regard to the present world price of brimstone compared with increased costs of production of pyrites in Australia. These were the 2 related factors considered in regard to the termination of the bounty. One could argue as to why, for example, North-West Acid should be penalised or even victimised if the decision to phase out the assistance is proceeded with. 
The Opposition believes that this matter should go back to the Tariff Board, particularly in view of recent decisions of the Government that the Tariff Board should try to streamline investigations and bring in reports more quickly. Of course, there is a need for the Government to present reports more quickly to this Parliament after the Tariff Board has completed its recommendations. 
It is obvious that world supplies of elemental sulphur are increasing because not only are more deposits being found in some of the undeveloped countries but more importantly that technology is engaged in the production by bio-chemical means of synthetic materials of which natural gas is one of the most important parent products. In fact, this is just one more example of science applying technology in the production of synthetic elements by bio-chemical means. What this means is that the world supply of sulphur is increasing relative to the demand and this has meant a drastic reduction in the import parity or world price of sulphur. This is the basic argument to the whole case, that there should be, because of the reduction in price, protection given to a company which is efficient, and from all I have read in the Tariff Board reports the company in Tasmania principally concerned is efficient. 
To reiterate, the conclusions underlying the report while not incorrect are certainly out of date in relation to the recommendations made at that time and there is therefore a need, because of the Government's obligations to the sulphuric acid and pyrites industry, to take this matter back to the Tariff Board for further consideration, plus the fact that certain statements were made by the Tariff Board in relation to the projection over 20 years of a bounty which was made on certain assumptions. Those assumptions are now more real than they were in 1969 and this is one more reason why the period of this bounty should be increased, as we argue, to 31st December 1974. The future demand for sulphur in Australia will be dependent on the demand for acid which in turn is dependent on the demand for fertiliser, principally phosphatic fertiliser and superphosphate in particular. Approximately 80 per cent of the acid production in Australia is used to manufacture superphosphate. 
One of the problems confronting the Tariff Board was, of course, concerning the future. It must make recommendations taking into account not only the present but also the immediate future, and if the demand for sulphur and the demand for acid is dependent on the demand for, say, superphosphate, this increased demand for superphosphate is a direct consequence of the economic or financial condition of the users of superphosphate which are principally the agricultural and pastoral districts. Western Australia is the biggest user of superphosphate followed and now almost matched by New South Wales and Victoria. The greatest potential rate of growth in the utilisation of superphosphate or phosphatic fertilisers will be in the northern part of Australia - this is recognised by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and by the projections of Edye and Griffiths-Taylor - principally in the higher rainfall areas in a combination of stylosanthes or Townsville lucerne pastures, the legumes, in conjunction wilh phosphate. The danger and the uncertainty lie in the future demand for superphosphate. This will depend very heavily on the wheat and wool industries, pastures on the one hand and wheat on the other. This, we hope, will be an increasing demand. 
The figures given by the Tariff Board are quite optimistic, I feel, and suggest a very significant increase in the actual demand up till 1990 or the year 2000. This will require a very significant increase and if one looks at appendix E at the back of the Tariff Board report one sees those projections and they depend on a great number of variables particularly in relation to wheat and wool. It is not for me to question them because they have been made by people trained in this field. The only point I can make is that they were made in 1969 and there is quite a difference between the economic situation of the wool industry, for example, today and that which applied in 1969. The end product of all this is the fertiliser itself and it seems to me that the critically worsening economic condition of wide areas of rural Australia eventually could lead to the closing down of major fertiliser factories in Australia, because if we look at their annual reports we find that some of these companies, even though some have amalgamated, are really fighting for survival and there have been instances of the closing down of works. I believe that this must not be allowed to happen. In the first place, we have a very large amount of capital invested in fertiliser works. We also have a cumulative asset aggregation. We also have a widespread availability of permanent employment in fertiliser factories throughout Australia. 
In the interests of the Australian primary producer I believe it is essential that Australian manufacture of fertiliser should continue and that we do not have to rely on imported fertiliser. Honourable members may ask why. First of all, an efficient Australian fertiliser industry is essential to the requirement of stability of fertiliser prices. At the same time it allows for the production of a very wide range of specialised by-products from the fertiliser industry and, as primary producers we. know, because of the wide range of soil types, climatic conditions and particular environmental circumstances there is a demand for special fertiliser elements in particular areas in particular types of land use management. Given viable fertiliser works in Australia then there is a good chance that these, specialised fertiliser products will continue to be produced. We need them, but above all, I believe, is the need for stability. There is no sing! : cost in the whole range of primary production today which is more stable than that o ' fertiliser. Looking at the index for the last, say, 10 years honourable members will find that there has been practically no variation in the price of fertiliser. This is, of course, basically due to the subsidies and bounties which have been paid. This compensates for increasing costs. But it is essential that we do have this vital Australian industry. 
Honourable members may ask why we do not import fertiliser. I think 1 would be right in saying that there is no manufacturing industry in Australia which is more rigorously controlled in terms of its pricing apparatus than the fertiliser industry because before the companies can increase the price of fertilisers, particularly superphosphate and nitrogen, there has to be an investigation in relation to the undumped import parity price. A case can be substantiated for an increase in the price of a fertiliser that is receiving assistance by way of bounties or subsidies only when the Australian price is significantly lower than the undumped import parity price. What this really means is that the ceiling on fertiliser prices in Australia is the undumped import parity price. 
We have seen in recent months an increase in the price of nitram - ammonium nitrate. This increase came about principally because the Australian price of nitram was significantly lower than the undumped import parity price. The case was investigated by the Department of Customs and Excise and apparently no objection was made to an increase in the price of nitram. But as we know, nitram costs more to produce than urea and also it has a premium over urea. I am giving this detail only as an instance although we are dealing principally with the Pyrites Bounty Bill and the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill. Nevertheless the principles are quite relevant. I think that they are the main points I wanted to make. 
I have dealt mainly with the principles involved. My colleague the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  will be more specific in relation to his own problem which is a major one as it affects North West Acid Pty Ltd in Tasmania. I think this House should give serious consideration to this problem because it is clear that the factual basis of the Tariff Board report is 2 years out of date. Everybody will admit that there have been significant dramatic changes in the last 2 years and in the price of rural products, particularly wool and in the quantity of wheat produced and also because of the increases in the cost of production whether they be on the farm or in the factory.- The relationship of the import parity price of sulphur to what it was 2 years ago when the Tariff Board took evidence on this matter is also pertinent in regard to this point. All those things, I believe, add up to a constructive case for deferring the Government's decision until it has another look at this problem. 
For this reason and because of the long delay in referring a matter to the Tariff Board, the investigation, the writing of a report, the presentation of it to the Government and the Government making a decision after sometimes a considerable delay, the Opposition will move in the Committee stage an amendment to each of these 2 Bills seeking the extension of the operation of the bounty to 31st December 1974. By that time, I believe, the Tariff Board could carry out a further investigation based on the facts as they are today, come to a conclusion and present ils recommendations to the Government and this Parliament. I hope that the Government will look very seriously at this matter as I believe that in view of the changing circumstances there is a watertight case for the continuation of the bounty at least a further 2 years. 
I move: 
That the clause be postponed. 
As an instruction to the Government: 
To provide for the payment of the bounty to be extended until 31st December 1974. 
The reasons given for the Opposition's amendment have been made clear to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  and to honourable members. I commend it accordingly. 
I believe that the Minister on behalf of the Government owes the House an explanation on the points raised by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies).  There was a distinct examination after reference was made by the Government to the Tariff Board of the- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! There is far too much conversation in the chamber. 
I think we are entitled to some courtesy. 
The point I was making,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  was that 1 believe that- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Chifley will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The Minister will resume his seat. I call the honourable member for Dawson. 
It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Braddon has taken an extreme interest in this problem. The decision of the Government will mean, as the honourable member said, the death of a viable industry in Tasmania. It will probably mean also that a significant number of people and their families will be out of work. In case the Minister is not aware of this, the present rate of unemployment in Tasmania on a pro rata basis is higher than any other State in the Commonwealth. I believe this House is entitled to an explanation as to why in 1967 the Tariff Board, after a thorough examination of the facts before it came to certain conclusions and made a firm recommendation in relation to the period of assistance based on the assumption, and quite rightly so, that the Government had an obligation to assist these industries. 
Conditions have worsened, not improved. Because conditions have become worse there is even more reason for the Tariff Board's conclusions made in 1967 to be relevant than if conditions had improved. For that reason the Minister should give the House an explanation of why the Tariff Board has apparently reversed its earlier decision and why the Government does not intend to honour the obligation which it has to these companies. These companies have spent money and have worked according to plan in the development of their industries. The honourable member for Braddon has said this is a deliberate attempt to virtually bankrupt a viable company in Australia and to deliberately put men and their families on the labour market. This is a disgraceful state of affairs. This action is being taken by a government that calls itself a LiberalCountry Party government. There is double dealing. There can be no argument about that whatsoever. The fact that the Minister has read from the latest Tariff Board report is of no relevance. It is what happened in 1967 that is relevant. The Government acted on that decision taken by the Tariff Board but the Board has now gone back on its word, or its assumptions. I should say, but there is absolutely no reason whatsoever why the Government should follow the Tariff Board report when the decision taken in 1967 was followed with a recommendation made in good faith. It is a disgrace in terms of policy to bankrupt deliberately the companies manufacturing pyrites and sulphuric acid thereby putting men and their families on the labour market. 
In speaking on the estimates for the Department of National Development I wish to concentrate my remarks on the northern half of Australia because in recent times there has been all the evidence of a definite slackening of interest by the Government with respect to the development of the northern half of Australia. We are all familiar with the sudden burst that took place in 1961 after the electors of Queensland almost tossed the Menzies Government out of power. There was a rash of promises between 1961 and 1966. Then we did see some action in the northern parts of Australia. But unfortunately this momentum now seem to be tapering off. I want to illustrate a few points which are more in the nature of questions to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  than anything else. One of the very constructive programmes put forward by this Government, the national water resources programme - $100m worth - has now become some type of a mystery. What has happened to it? 
We know that schemes have been submitted by States governments, but rarely do we hear any statement in this Parliament about what is happening. From time to time we hear of some promise of an evaluation to be carried out, but this matter is very important to Australia's development, despite the fact that there will always be ups and downs in various industries. A progressive water conservation programme is a vital part of national development. This is a very marked gap in the Government's thinking, particularly this year. We have heard virtually nothing about it. Three years ago in one area in northern Queensland there was a promise of a reappraisal of the Burdekin River basin scheme by the then Prime Minister and the Queensland Government. Except when questions are asked in this House we never hear anything about it. The people of the Burdekin and the people of Townsville, who will be the main beneficiaries of the Burdekin basin project, are convinced that the Government is doing absolutely nothing in this field. 
I am sorry; tha Minister made a statement in Townsville. But the place to make such a statement is in Parliament. I do not know what the Minister said. It could not have been earth shattering, because it has not filtered into the Burdekin area which I represent. It must have been in Townsville that the statement was made. Having read some of the editorials in the Townsville 'Bulletin', I think that they have probably taken the Minister's statement with a grain of salt. In my own area there is an important but small scheme - the North Eton scheme. I believe, and I have said many times in this Parliament, that the priorities for water development, particularly now, should be concentrated in the proven and established areas. We have had  2  major schemes - in the Ord River and in the Nogoa area. These are not what are usually called proved or established areas in the sense of having a big infrastructure behind them as there would be in the southern part of Australia or in coastal Queensland. 
There is a definite case for the provision of funds for water conservation in the North Eton scheme. This is an area which is well known to be affected by periodic droughts. It is somewhat similar to the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. As the Minister well knows, if one looks at just a simple cumulative value of the losses - whether they be the import parity value or the domestic price of sugar - one will find that the value of production alone would justify the construction of the headworks, and over a time the maintenance of production to avoid losses would pay for the maintenance of the headworks and the reticulation system. But we have not heard anything of this. The people in these areas want to know the answer. The farmers come to me and ask what is happening. It is no good going to the State Government, because its standard answer to everything in Queensland is: 'We have approached the Commonwealth'. The State Government puts up the scheme to get all the publicity. and when people want action it says: 'It is up to the Commonwealth'. It is about time the Commonwealth Government woke up to this trick. The Urannah dam, the Burdekin dam and the Eton project are all in the same basket. I think it is time the Minister for National Development had a few words to say occasionally about this. 
Why would it not happen? What I am trying to say is that the Commonwealth ought not to take it so much. But it does take it. Apparently the Government likes this type of criticism. One thing is certain: If there was a Labor government in power here now it would have a few words to say to Henry Bolte, Askin, Bjelke-Petersen and a few others. It is high time the Government had a few words to say to put the record straight. But more importantly, what I am trying to establish tonight is what is happening to these projects. I have spoken before about beef roads. What is needed urgently is some indication of a new programme. As the Minister well knows, one does not just stop a programme. It has to be continuous for at least 18 months so that resources can be planned in the construction field. This is needed in Queensland. The brigalow scheme was one of the .best land settlement schemes in Australia. I do not say that just because I had something to do with it. We all recognise the value of the scheme. I believe that the taxpayers of Australia are entitled to know from time to time how efficiently Commonwealth money is being spent on beef roads, the Ord River scheme, the brigalow scheme and water conservation schemes in general. From time to time the Parliament should be given reports to allow honourable members to study the progress and to see what deficiencies are met. For example, last week we discussed a comprehensive water scheme in Western Australia which showed a tremendous escalation in costs. I think from time to time it would be objective if this Parliament were told of some of these increases. 
I hope that the Minister is not going to tell me about an increase of $4m or S5m which took place in the last few months. Power development is vital to Queensland and vital to the north. Money has been made available - at a very high rate of interest - but I think it is time we had a few more power houses constructed in the north. Quite obviously in the next 20 years we are going to see very big development in the northern part of Australia, with industrialisation based on mineral resources. This is accepted in many cases. A lot has been said about foreign investment in the north. One of the hardest things is to get the Government to set down in writing what it believes should be done about our resources. Honourable members might ask: What does the Labor Party think of it? I will tell them. We believe that the priorities of ownership and development should be given to Australian residents and Australian companies as a general rule. That is the first priority. In the event of foreign interests which own Australian mineral resources wishing to develop these resources by raising capital funds, the first offer should be made to Australian shareholders and Australian companies to participate as partners in this development. If Australian shareholders or Australian companies are unable to raise finance then the Australian government on behalf of the taxpayers or the people should come in as an active partner. If a government believes that the risk capita] is too high, consideration should be given to raising capital overseas, but this should not be contemplated until that point has been reached. Of course, we should not forget but should recognise that where special overseas skills and technology are required any responsible government would give consideration to allowing capital and services to be raised abroad for this requirement. I think that all that is needed is guidelines for resource development. But today out land and resources are being hawked overseas on foreign stock exchanges. I do not believe that any other nation would allow that state of affairs to exist. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has made a statement that he has always had to pay his own fare when he has travelled overseas. 
The point is this: The Liberal Party has some pride; it could never send him overseas. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I believe - I have raised this matter twice in this House and I will continue to raise it - that the present trip overseas of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is not justified in view of the very serious problems in Australia on the rural front. If we sit down and think about the amount of Australian taxpayers' money which is at tremendous risk in the rural sector and about which very high policy decisions have to be made, particularly in relation to the wool industry which is the direct responsibility of the Minister for Primary Industry. I believe that even members of the Liberal Party will agree - 1 cannot expect members of the Country Party to agree with this - that at this point of time the Minister for Primary Industry should be in Australia. The official reason given for his trip is to chair the Food and Agriculture Organisation conference. Anybody who knows about the annual FAO conferences - and I know something about them - knows that they are regarded as meeting places of the elite of agricultural economists, agricultural scientists and others throughout the world for the discussion of ideas. Certainly, the conferences are constructive in that sense. But they are technical conferences. The chairmanship of them rotates in order. 
But when one looks at the crisis and the problems, most of which are policy problems, in Australia one sees that the place for the Minister for Primary Industry at the present time is in Australia. We have tremendous problems in the wool industry. At no other period in Australia's history has any major primary industry been faced with the problems with which the wool industry is faced today. There is the problem of the Australian Wool Commission itself. In fact, we need strong leadership from a Government point of view because this is the time when strong leadership must be applied to the wool industry. We have not got it from the wool industry itself. I notice that there has been a plea for  Sir William  Gunn to resign. More will be said about that later. No-one can do about  10  jobs at once, and that is what  Sir William  Gunn is trying to do. A man at the head of the wool industry should be devoting his full time to this problem. The Minister for Primary Industry should be in Australia devoting his full time to it. We know that the reconstruction scheme in Australia is in a shambles today. lt is in a shambles in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. I cannot speak for the other States but I can speak for those  3  States. The State governments just do not know where to go next. This is another reason why the Minister for Primary Industry should be in Australia at the present time. 
I have nothing personal against the Minister for Primary Industry. Let me make that very clear. I sincerely believe that every thinking member of this Parliament would agree with me, when he sits down and looks at the problems involved in the policy-making field which is the responsibility of the Minister for Primary Industry. It is no good saying that we have an Acting Minister who is the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  He has a full-time job to do himself. He cannot possibly do the job of the Minister for Primary Industry which is one of the most onerous responsibilities of any Minister. One has only to look at the amount of legislation that has come before this Parliament to see that. Next to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  the Minister for Primary Industry administers more legislation by far than any other Minister in the Parliament. One has only to look at the number of Bills that have been passed and have yet to be passed this session. I think it is a very scandalous thing that the important 
Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill har still not yet been through the Parliament. It is being debated in the other place. It may have been passed by his time. I do nol know. It was certainly being debated this afternoon. 
Amendments were being moved. What would have happened if the amendments had been passed in the other place and the Bill had come back here? Who makes the decision? It is a Cabinet decision, but cerainly it should be guided by the Minister for Primary Industry. The time when the Minister for Primary Industry should have gone overseas was about last April. He should have gone with the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  when Britain's entry into the European Common Market was being negotiated by  Mr Rippon  on behalf of the United Kingdom Government wilh the Six in Europe. That was the time when Australians should have been overseas in force. Every primary producer in Australia would have given his complete blessing to the Minister for Primary Industry, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade and Industry being overseas at that point of time doing exactly what the NZ Minister was doing - camping on the doorstep of the British Government and of the Ministers of the Common Market, talking day and night of the common agricultural policy. 
But, of course, at that point of time the Liberal-Country Party Government was in disarray. The new Prime Minister was not game to move out of the chamber on some days because he did not know what was going to happen next. That was the time when Government Ministers should have been overseas. I do not for one minute want to take away from, the Minister for Primary Industry the privilege of chairing the Food and Agriculture Organisation conference. I acknowledge and accept that this is an honour for Australia. But I think that there are too many very important things at stake in Australia today in the field of primary industry. The. Minister should have graciously informed the Director-General of FAO that he was unavailable because of the crisis in the Australian rural industries. I believe that he would have gained a lot of respect from primary producers in Australia if he had done so. 
Serious problems are developing, apart from the problems in the wool industry There is a lack of confidence throughout Australia not only in primary industry but also throughout the whole economy. But it is in the primary industries that the lack of confidence is the greatest. These are the industries that have had their backs to the wall for the longest time. A few weeks ago I was in western Queensland. On every property I visited there was despair, economic misery and worry about what is going to happen next. As soon as you get through the front gate the first thing they ask you is: 'What is going to happen to the wool industry'? Could any of us say what is going to happen to the wool industry? We can only say that never before has it faced such a crisis and never before has Australian primary industry faced a greater crisis, and that includes the depression, because then at least we knew that it was an economic depression and that the dark cloud had a silver lining. We know it will happen in Australia. We do not know whether there will be a silver lining in the cloud for wool because this is a physical as well as an economic problem. 
I suppose the very first priority in Australia today is reconstruction - progressive dynamic reconstruction to assist primary industries not only to become viable again, those that can become viable, but also to assist those unfortunate people who have lost almost everything they have invested and worked for over the years to at least have a better life for themselves and their children. I believe this sincerely and I am not making a critical speech on this in terms of what the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said. I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry should be in Australia at the present time and that he should stay here, even if it means foregoing overseas trips because although I for one would not criticise him if I thought it were a constructive trip, I do not believe this trip to the FAO is a constructive one. I say this because 1 know a little bit about FAO conferences. 
-I think it is necessary to reply to some of the points made by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  The most disturbing inference that he made was that the trip that  Mr Whitlam  and 1 made to China was paid for by the Australian taxpayer. 
The Minister did not mention  Mr Barnard.  I make it quite clear to the Minister that  Mr Whitlam  and his secretary,  Mr Freudenberg,  paid every cent out of their own pockets and no expense at all was incurred to the Australian taxpayer. My fares to Hong Kong, tourist class and return, were paid for by the Australian Labor Party at no expense to the Australian taxpayers. Since I have been in the Parliament I have never had a trip overseas at the expense of the taxpayers. I have never requested one. That is not the argument but I want to make that position quite clear. In regard to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  going overseas, I have made my point. 
The Minister for the Navy said that this is nonsense. If he asked some of his Australian Country Party colleagues who are here tonight about the situation they would tell him that it is not nonsense. They would tell him what they think and what is being said in the electorate in pretty blunt language. It has been said that it is far more important to Australia for the Minister for Primary Industry to be serving as chairman of the Food and Agriculture Organisation at the present time than it is for him to be in Australia giving moral confidence to the primary producers who are in serious trouble and who look to the Minister as their spokesman. I say to the Minister for the Navy that what he has said is nonsense because as most honourable members well know, the place of the Minister for Primary Industry at the present time is in Australia, in this Parliament and particularly at the helm in the crisis we are facing. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - First of all the honourable member for Griffith should have made his request at the time the remark was made. I did not hear the remark from the Chair. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
At a time when the nation is looking at ways and means of reducing costs I want to raise a matter tonight to find out whether the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  can throw some light on it and also whether the Australian Transport Advisory Council has given very much consideration to this subject. I refer to corrosion or rust in motor vehicles specifically and also as it applies to other vehicles such as tractors. The greatest problem with rust in Australia today is principally confined to motor vehicles. I believe that the Federal Government must take positive steps to introduce legislation, in co-operation with the States, to compel car manufacturers in Australia to take more effective measures to prevent rust in motor vehicles. The growing incidence of rust in Australia costs the nation millions of dollars a year. The bulk of Australia's population lives in close proximity to the seaboard where the prevalence of corrosion is extremely high. The cause of corrosion is principally the atmosphere. Corrosion occurs with a combination of oxygen and moisture. This combination leads to an oxidisation reaction. The incidence of rust is greater in areas where there is a higher density of population, such as in industrial areas on the seaboard, because the atmosphere in these areas is contaminated or polluted with sulphur dioxide. Sulphur dioxide when combined with moisture and oxygen leads to an acceleration of the oxidisation reaction process, thus accelerating the rate of corrosion. 
Which areas of Australia are more important in terms of the problem of rust? Taking into account the factors which I have mentioned and by ascertaining those areas in Australia which have a high relative humidity you can pinpoint those areas in which the rust problem is severe. In those areas which have a relative humidity of more than 75 per cent, plus the oxidisation reaction process, plus urban industrialisation, you have a greater concentration of rust. Taken by and large, every area on the seaboard of Australia faces the problem of rust. In addition to the waste of resources a significant number of road deaths occur each year and a lot of these may be attributed to rust in vehicles. Unsafe vehicles which are called rust buckets are being driven on our highways. The use of thinner gauge steel in the manufacture of car bodies hastens the corrosion process. In many parts of Australia the life of a car and depreciation costs are dependent on the annual rate of the spread of rust. Some honourable members who will be familiar with pre-war vehicles such as the Whippets and the Chev 4s know that there are still some of these vehicles on our roads today and it is fairly difficult to find any rust in them, even the ones which are driven in seaboard areas. In contrast my car is 3 years old and it is rusted heavily in the lower parts. I point out that I live on the coast. 
It is obvious that this rust is caused by a combination of atmospheric conditions and the practice of using thinner gauge steel in the manufacture of car bodies. In an area where there is a high relative humidity the rusting process is accelerated. Instead of motor vehicle bodies being constructed to last longer it would seem to me that manufacturers are concerned mainly with securing as rapid a turnover as possible without too much protest from the public. We cannot blame the manufacturer directly because it is not the fault of the manufacturing process that .is used. The manufacturer cannot be blamed because of the atmospheric conditions. But I do blame the manufacturers to this extent in that they have the facilities to give a protective coating to the steel or alloy used in the manufacture of motor vehicle bodies which would render to them a life much longer than they have at the present time. Earlier I referred to the pre-war vehicles. My parents had a Whippet and I would guarantee that if it was still going there would certainly be no rust on it. 
I believe that this Government should give consideration to the subject of rust. What can the motor vehicle industry do about this? Firstly there are different ways of treating the steel. There are protective measures which can be taken to safeguard steel or the alloys which are somewhat resistent to corrosion. It is obvious to those people who have any knowledge about welding that the joining of different types of metal by a welding process is often one of the principal reasons for the formation of rust. We will have to find some way to counter the electrolytic couples reaction. This is quite obvious to those people who have done a lot of welding, for example; and, after all, there are many welds on most motor cars. There are several types of protection available. Firstly, there is protection without altering the steel surface; that is, with non-metallic coatings, waxing fats, paints, lacquers, plastics and so forth. This type of protection is commonly used but it is only a temporary measure. A more permanent protection is the metallic coating, which is an electrolytic process - the spray gun application, for example, of molten metals and so forth. I believe there is an even more permanent protection which involves the altering of the steel surface itself by the use of an alloy which is resistant to rust or by an electro-chemical process. 
It may be suggested that all of these things seem somewhat far-fetched but I am told by reliable authorities - this is something I want to know, because I believe it is serious - that the manufacturers who today are producing vehicles in such volume could virtually rustproof the steel in a motor car body for about $30 to $40. I refer to manufacturers like the Ford Company and General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd. This is what I have been told; I do not know whether it is correct. ' 
I thank the honourable member for that information. 
They have suggested the use of chemical processes - electrolytic processes. I am not an expert in this field but I should like to know whether this is possible as I come from an area where rust is of tremendous importance because it affects costs. The high incidence of rust in motor cares must also be of some concern to the Government. I understand that today there is a change to a monoconstruction process under which, for example, the front end is manufactured and there is the possibility that the whole structure of a motor car can be affected by rust - not simply an axle or a fender. The whole of the motor car body can be affected. 
I am told also that some of the more expensive motor vehicles - the Volvo and the Mercedes-Benz - have bodies of structural steel which has been treated against rust. A couple of people within the precincts of this Parliament drive Volvos and we could secure this information from them. If it is illustrated that these cars do not exhibit any rust characteristics I believe we can learn much from them. In all seriousness I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport to consider this matter. About $ 1,000m is involved in the cost of new vehicles each year and an additional $10Om is expended in motor car replacements each year. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to deal tonight with an attack made on me, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Australian Labor Party yesterday by a member of the Queensland Parliament. This whole matter touches on the so-called law of privileges as it applies. From my point of view as a layman, I understand that no actual laws in relation to privileges as they apply to the Commonwealth Parliament have been enacted. Although attempts have been made or appeals have been made to codify such privileges, we rely on section 49 of the Commonwealth Constitution for our guidance in this matter. Section 49 says: 
The powers, privileges, and immunities of the Senate and of the House of Representatives, and of the members and the committees of each House, shall be such as are declared by the Parliament, and until declared shall be those of the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom, and of its members and committees, at the establishment of the Commonwealth. 
What it seems to boil down to is this: If a person in Australia attacks this Parliament or a member of the Parliament and reflects on the integrity of this Parliament or a member of the Parliament acting in his capacity as a member, any member of this Parliament may raise the matter here by proposing a motion. If the motion is agreed to the matter is referred to the Privileges Committee which then sits and makes recommendations to the House. Action, if necessary, can then be taken. It is not clear whether the laws of privilege as they apply to this House govern all persons including, for instance, judges or the 
Governor-General. Under our Standing Orders no member of this Parliament can reflect on the integrity of another member of this Parliament in his capacity as a member of Parliament. If he does, certain action is taken. 
What 1 am concerned about is this loophole: It seems to me that a person in a State Parliament, or in the Commonwealth Parliament I suppose, can say what he or she likes about another member of another parliament. Deliberate lies, deliberate falsifications and anything that a member likes to say can be stated. The member at whom the remarks are directed has no recourse at all either in his Parliament or in the Parliament in which the remarks originated. I refer specifically to the attack made on me yesterday by  Mr Aikens.  a member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly.  His  remarks were endorsed - this makes the matter very serious - by the Queensland Minister for Primary Industies,  Mr Row. Mr Aikens  said that the mid-election campaign of the Federal Australian Labor Party was financed by Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd. The report in the Brisbane 'Courier Mail* of today's date, setting out  Mr Aikens'  remarks, states: 

 Mr Aikens said people wanted to know why the Federal Opposition Leader  (Mr Whitlam)  had not taken  Dr Patterson  (Labor spokesman on primary industries) with him into dairying areas in his propaganda campaign. 
My information is  Mr Whitlam  and the ALP campaign were being financed by the Marrickville Margarine people', he said. 
This statement was endorsed by the Minister for Primary Industries in Queensland,  Mr J.  A. Row. The allegation made in the Queensland Parliament that the Federal ALP mid-election campaign was financed by Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd is a deliberate and a malicious lie. The seriousness of this scurrilous accusation which was made under parliamentary privilege by  Mr Aikens  M.L.A., is revealed by the endorsement of it by the Queensland Country Party Minister for Primary Industries,  Mr Row.  I believe that any Cabinet minister in this Parliament or in a State Parliament who deliberately resorts to the telling of lies in his Parliament is not fit to be a minister of the Crown. 
This allegation was first brought to my attention some months ago in Canberra. It is understood that it was circulated here by Country Party members. If they can get away with it, good on them. But no member rose in this Parliament and made the allegation here. As soon as the allegation came to my notice, I made immediate inquiries. I found that it was a complete fabrication. Could  Mr Aikens  or  Mr Row  seriously believe that I would have remained silent for a couple of months if this allegation were true? I believe that the Australian public is thoroughly sick of politicians hiding behind parliamentary privilege and deliberately mounting untruths. If  Mr Aikens  or  Mr Row  was given this information by someone, let both of them repeat the allegation outside the Parliament and take the obvious consequences. 
The whole purpose of this attack is to try to embarrass the Australian Labor Party. But tactics of this type will not work. Dairy farmers, in common with most primary producers throughout Australia, are fed up with the complacency and broken promises of this Government. The claim by  Mr Aikens  that I would not accompany the Leader of the Opposition into dairying areas because Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd was financing the Australian Labor Party's mid-election campaign is the height of absurdity and is a lie. The Leader of the Opposition, as every member of this Parliament knows, did not at any stage go into dairying areas in his mid-election campaign. On the contrary, I have been in 7 major dairying areas in Australia in the last 2 months. This is quite the opposite of what  Mr Aikens  is saying. 
This same gentleman who seems to specialise in attacks of this type - he is well known to a number of Queenslanders - made very serious allegations against me in the State Parliament on the first occasion when I sought election to this Parliament as an Australian Labor Party candidate. He referred to my student days at the University of Queensland. He is reported in the 'Hansard' of the Queensland Parliament as saying: 
Let us look back a little. I will not go too far back to tell honourable members of  Dr Patterson's  student days and the peculiar political philosophy that he had then, because many students have a lot of peculiar political philosophies. . . . 

 Mr Aikens went on to say: 
If the honourable member for Bundaberg cares to make some investigations into  Dr Patterson's  political background, he will see that he was the very antithesis of a Liberal. 
Me again told deliberate lies and rubbished me in that speech in the Queensland Parliament. Only one person in this Parliament knew me in my student days. That is the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann).  He would be the first person to rise in this Committee, if necessary, to brand what  Mr Aikens  said as a deliberate lie. There is absolutely nothing wrong with my past as far as my politics went when I was at the University of Queensland. I was not interested in politics then; I was interested in one thing only, passing examinations. 
But that is beside the point. The issue is the right of a member of a State Parliament or of this Parliament to tell deliberate and malicious lies about a member of another Parliament, and the absence of any law of privilege which permits the member about whom the remarks have been passed to seek to bring the person making the remarks before any court, or the Parliament itself. I think that this Parliament should look at this matter quite seriously. We cannot make such statements in this Parliament about other members here.  Mr Aikens  could not do this in his own Parliament with respect to another member of that House. I say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bowen),  who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  that apparently there is nothing to stop me telling deliberate lies in this Parliament about a member of another Parliament and getting away with that action. This to me is quite wrong. I think that the laws of the land should be changed to stop this type of malpractice. T can say this: Not one member in this Committee in my opinion engages in this type of behaviour. That remark applies to members on both sides of the Committee. I think that it is quite wrong that members of State parliaments - I do not know whether any member other than this person would do this - can engage in persistent and deliberate lies about members in another parliament when he himself knows that they are lies. 
Anybody who listened to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  must have been moved by that stirring and very sincere address. There is no question that the solution to the problem of where to build Sydney's second airport is simply not to build a second airport. As far as 1 am concerned - I hope that the honourable member for Hughes will support me - north Queensland could do with an international airport. I think that all members of this Parliament should vote to ban a second airport in Sydney and to establish an international airport in north Queensland. That is the solution to the problem. There is also plenty of wildlife in north Queensland. I am certain that there will bc serious damage to wildlife if an airport is built in the Royal National Park. 
I want to talk about the serious problem in north Queensland with respect to the Mackay Airport. Honourable members who were on the Public Works Committee some years ago made a trenchant criticism of the condition of the terminal building at the Mackay Airport. It was my understanding that a new terminal building would be constructed very early in the 1970s. It is most difficult to find out anything about what has happened to the mysterious building that is to be erected there. As the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  well knows, the Mackay Airport is the fourth busiest airport in Australia outside the capital cities. It is the gateway to one of Australia's greatest tourist attractions, the Great Barrier Reef. I think I am right in saying that the number of international tourists who pass through the Mackay and Proserpine airports is larger, as a percentage of total traffic, than is the case for any other major airport in Australia. 
Anybody who travels to Mackay Airport knows that when two or three jets are at the Mackay airport at the same time it is impossible to get into one of the terminal buildings. One has to line up out on the street with one's luggage waiting his turn to get into the building. Only recently  Sir Reginald  Ansett was in Mackay and we were talking about this matter. I showed him the conditions at the Ansett terminal, and I am pleased to say that Ansett Airlines of Australia is to do something about extending its terminal facilities because it is completely frustrated at having to wait for the Department of Civil Aviation to make up its mind on when this area will get a decent airport. 
All of us here travel a lot in aeroplanes. It is high time that a little more consideration was given to increasing efficiency in baggage collection, baggage disposal and the transfer of baggage between aircraft, particularly the baggage of those who are travelling interstate with one. two, three or four connections before they get to their destination. Anybody who travels from Queensland to Canberra - I am certain that the Minister has had this experience - frequently finds when he gets here that he has no baggage. Somewhere, usually in Sydney, there just has not been time to transfer the luggage from one aircraft to another. It becomes embarrassing sometimes if one is going out and needs a change of clothing or if one has books and documents in his luggage. This happens frequently. It happened to me 4 times in a row. To be fair I will not name the company concerned. It was explained to me that the problem arose because of a tight schedule connection in Sydney. I think that all of these things can be looked at. 
It is becoming obvious to the people in north Queensland, in particular, that now we are served by jet aircraft - we are very thankful that we have the jets - the standard of service in terms of frequency has deteriorated greatly. In fact, as one person pointed out to me, there were more services to some areas in the days of the DC3 than there are now in the days of the jets. To get from Mackay which is the centre of my electorate to north Queensland often involves a 2-day journey there and back. I do not think it is possible to fly from Mackay to Cairns and get back to Mackay in one day. lt is a 2-day trip. On a Friday there are on aircraft at all from Mackay to north Queensland. To service my electorate on Friday and Saturday the only recourse for me is to drive a motor car. In one day last weekend I drove 560 miles. The weekend before that I had to drive from Mackay to Townsville and back because over the weekend there are no aircraft services from Mackay to Townsville that are suitable. 
No, not in that area. The bush pilots are in Cairns. I think these matters should be looked at. The other point I want to make is in relation to Qantas Airways Ltd. In recent weeks a lot has been said in this Parliament about the efficiency of Qantas, Australia's airline. I shall make a little point. Recently I had occasion to go from Sydney to Hong Kong on the way to China. I travelled by Qantas. When 1 boarded the plane in Sydney, travelling tourist class, a steward came around, immaculately clothed, and said in a very cultured voice: 'Would you like a drink, Sir?'. I said: 'Yes. I would like a rum - an Australian rum, preferably Bundaberg'. He said: 'My good  Sir, we  never stock Australian rums. It is only Bacardi on Qantas.' This was said in front of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the entire Australian Labor Party delegation. Australian rum is not stocked on an Australian aircraft. 
When we left Manila we had some cheese. It was French cheese. I said: Where are the Australian cheeses?'. The same gentleman in a very cultured voice said: 'From Manila to Hong Kong we serve only French cheese' - on Qantas! The same thing occurred coming back from Hong Kong to Sydney. 1 again asked for a rum. A different gentleman but the same cultured, nice voice said: 'We do not stock Australian rum'. He was very snooty about it too. I do not know what these people think about this product but it is a fine Australian product. It is just as good as any international product. In fact, it is better than most. I suggest to the Minister that he take up this matter with Qantas. It is only a small point but it took me 3 years to get Trans-Australia Airlines to carry Australian rum on TAA aircraft. I have not persuaded Ansett Airlines of Australia to carry Australian rum yet but I am trying. They would not have it because some air hostesses think that it is a devil's drink. I assure honourable members that it is a very fine drink and it is made from sugar, an excellent product. As one who drinks rum only in moderation - one or two occasionally - 1 believe that an Australian is entitled to have an Australian drink on an Australian aircraft and not have to put up with a list which includes imported rums - quite a large choice of them- 
Yes, imported brandies and then to be told: 'No,  Sir, we  never carry Australian rum on this Australian aircraft'. Those are a few points I wish to make. T again repeat that there is a serious problem in the Mackay area with regard to the standard of its airport buildings. I think the Minister knows that it is time something was done. If we are going to attract international tourists to a world famous resort like the Great Barrier Reef surely they are entitled at least to a chair to sit on at peak periods. People frequently have to wait an hour or 2 hours for transshipment on feeder aircraft. They have to roam around the place without even a decent chair to sit on. This is something which has to be rectified. When there is congesion at this airport is an absolute disgrace in terms of selling Australia to international tourists. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister, in view of the reports that he achieved important gains in the United Slates with regard to the alleviation of the added United States surcharge on wool and also in Britain in securing more favourable conditions for the export of primary products, particularly sugar, to the United Kingdom during the transitional period for the entry of the United Kingdom to the European Economic Community, when will the Prime Minister inform the industries concerned of the good news? Or are the real facts exactly as they were before he left Australia, that is, that the United States will not reduce the added surcharge and that the European Economic Community will carry out a systematic study of sensitive Australian exports, industry by industry, as was announced 6 months ago, under the EEC safeguard clause, which is of little benefit to Australia  when  viewed in the overall Australian context? 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has referred to the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  as a very fine statement. If it was such a fine statement why did the Minister for Foreign Affairs not spend some time in reinforcing the Prime Minister's speech or at least commenting on it? In fact he really had nothing to say on what the Prime Minister has said or achieved because the truth of the matter is that the Prime Minister has achieved nothing. There is nothing in the Prime Minister's speech upon which to comment, lt is a dead and negative speech. 
All members of the Opposition and I think a lot of the members on the Government side listened in amazement to the Prime Minister's travel story and his version of his own achievements, particularly what he allegedly achieved in ,he United States of America and the United Kingdom with respect to trade matters. The unpalatable facts are that what t the Prime Minister has told us tonight about the European Economic Community and its relationship to Australia is at least 6 months out of date, and every word of what the Prime Minister has informed us on the EEC and the attitude of the United States to war is well known. What he said about the EEC has been repeated officially by  Mr Rippon,  by the British Prime Minister,  Mr Heath,  and by  Sir Alec 
Do g'.us-Home and others. This information is out of date. The plain facts are thai the Prime Minister has achieved nothing in his visit to the United States and the United Kingdom with respect to trade matters. 

 Mr Heath and  Mr Rippon  repeated to the Prime Minister almost word for word exactly what they told the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  when he was in the United Kingdom last July. I can 
Only  say that if the Prime Minister has returned home to Australia in a happy frame of mind at what he achieved in the United Kingdom with respect to the Common Market and what  Mr Heath  and  Mr Rippon  told him he must have been treated as a sucker, because there can be no question, as I will illustrate later with one commodity only - sugar - about how he has been taken for a ride in the commodity field by the British authorities. The Prime Minister makes great play about the saleguard clause that Britain has inserted with respect to future negotiations with the European Common Market. From the way he makes play of the fact that Britain will study commodity by commodity the effects on Australia's exports of primary products to Britain or to the European Economic Community once Britain joins that Community one would almost believe that this was new. 
But let us examine the official version given by Britain in June, 5 months ago, when it stated categorically in an official release (hat Britain at first sought a transitional period before it would adopt full Community preference, obviously to protect its traditional food suppliers for as long as possible, but France would have none of it and it was plain that Britain would never achieve membership if it insisted on a gradual application of EEC preferences. Britain succeeded in inserting a safeguard claude last June that would allow the Community to take special action in the case of sudden dislocation of British markets. The official communique indicated that if Australia or any other Commonwealth country found that it was suffering a major loss of markets in Britain, the enlarged Community could be asked to take remedial action. Australia or Britain would be free to take to the Commission the case of Australian primary products. Australian indus tries also would be free to take to the Commission the case for Australian primary products. This was stated officially by the British Government last June yet the Prime Minister came into the House tonight and repeated this almost word for word as something new. In other words, he really has achieved nothing. 
He also made a point about tariffs. He made the point that the future of British preferences in Austrafia will be a bargaining point when Britain enters the Common Market. Of course they will. This is old hat. This is only logical with respect to Australias preferential trade agreement with Britain. This agreement has meant that British goods have a differential as regards the tariff. Britain enjoys a tariff preference of less than half, for example, of what is paid by Japan - 7.6 per cent as compared with 19.9 per cent. It is obvious that when Britain does join the EEC the preferential agreement will be terminated and the preference tariffs will be ended. This is logical and there is nothing new in it 
One serious point needs to be brought out to illustrate why I believe that  Mr Heath  and  Mr Rippon  have taken our Prime Minister for a ride. In his statement tonight the Prime Minister said: 1 should tell the House that I questioned repeated assertions that although the United Kingdom is to enter the Common Market its bilateral relationship wilh Australia would not change. I can report that I was assured by Britain's Ministers that there was a pervasive desire to maintain the closest possible co-operation with Australia. 
Let me now illustrate how seriously the British Prime Minister,  Mr Heath,  and Britain's chief negotiator,  Mr Rippon,  really treated the Australian Prime Minister - the close co-operation that the Prime Minister mentioned. I shall deal with sugar - the commodity which the Prime Minister mentioned repeatedly in a communication between England and Australia. The safeguard clause which the Prime Minister has emphasised had always been thought to apply to sugar. The Prime Minister's statemeat tonight completely confirms that understanding. In fact, it was always believed by the sugar industry and this Government that the Australian quota position after 1974, when the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement is finalised, would still be very much open. This was made a firm understanding following the talks between the senior commercial adviser,  Mr Donovan,  and British officials during the time when the Prime Minister was in London. Reports reached Australia that the Prime Minister had made an important breakthrough with respect to sugar after talking to  Mr Heath  and  Mr Rippon.  In fact we all believed that he had achieved better conditions for the transitional period than the  Deputy  Prime Minister was able to report when he came back after his visit to England last July. However let us consider what happened. 
Last Tuesday in the House of Commons Britain's Minister for Agriculture,  Mr James  Prior, said that Australia's share of the British sugar market would be phased out after 1974. He said that after 1974 th&lt;' Australian quota would be phased out and (his would mean that there would be an additional market equal to 335,000 tons of beet sugar available. The situation is that after the Prime Minister's visit to London the position with respect to sugar has worsened, not improved, if the statement by the British Minister for Agriculture to the House of Commons can be believed, and there is no reason why it should not be believed. There has been no refutation of that statement. Apparently the Prime Minister's attention has not been drawn to the statement by the Minister for Agriculture because if it had been he would not have made his statement tonight about assurances from the British Prime Minister and  Mr Rippon  concerning bilateral agreements and co-operation with Australia. In view of the statement made in the House of Commons it is quite clear that the assurances given to the Prime Minister will not be honoured. 
Australia does not want to hear platitudes and a series of generalisations such as we have listened to tonight. With respect to sugar, which is the commodity which the Prime Minister has concentrated on, what Australia wants to know is whether Britain will use its best endeavours to get the European Economic Community into the International Sugar Agreement. Will Britain still take all or part of Australia's sugar after 1st January 1973 when Britain joins the Common Market? When Britain joins the Common Market will Britain technically be in the International Sugar Agreement? This is of importance to Australia, Cuba and the importing countries. Will Britain back Australia in getting a larger quota under the International Sugar Agreement when the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement ends in 1974? These are the crucial questions to which we hoped the Prime Minister might have some answers. However in his statement tonight there was no mention of these important matters. 
The Prime Minister mentioned wool. Without question the United States of America is the key to the wool situation in Australia. The United States is the largest consumer of wool in the world. It is perhaps the world's largest importer of woollen textiles and, for this reason alone, Australia, Japan and the United States have a common interest in the export of woo* to Japan and thence, via textile manufacturers, of textile products into the United States. One of the vital issues that we thought would be discussed by the Prime Minister with  President  Nixon and the American Secretary of Commerce is the surcharge on wool - the extra 10 per cent levy in addition to the already outrageous import duty or import tax on Austraiian wool. Reports were coming to Australia - obviously leaks or informed reports to journalists in America - that we could look forward perhaps to an alleviation of this special surcharge on our wool. But there was no mention of it in the Prime Minister's statement tonight. I asked the Prime Minister a question in the Parliament today and I was told only that the Secretary of Commerce would be coming to Australia early next year. Surely to goodness we do not need the Secretary of Commerce coming to Australia to find out what is wrong with our wool industry. Australia has trade commissioners overseas and our Ministers travel overseas. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is overseas at present, as is the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  We do not need the United States Secretary of Commerce in Australia to find out what is wrong with the wool industry. We had hoped that the Prime Minister would have returned to Australia and told us something positive about this special 10 per cent surcharge. 
The whole negative approach of the Prime Minister's statement tonight c nee again reveals the inability of this Government to give positive leadership in the economic policies of this nation. The Australian Government deserves to be severely censured over its handling of the Common Market issues and the Common Market negotiations, particularly with respect to Australia's case concerning Britain's entry to the Common Market. The Prime Minister's visit to the United Kingdom, with special reference to the European Economic Community, has achieved absolutely nothing. If he has achieved something, then why has he not said it tonight? Why ha&gt;s nol the Minister for Foreign Affairs said it tonight? I hope that the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  will tell us tonight what the Prime Minister has achieved. But nothing positive has been said about what he has achieved. 
Some months ago we witnessed the incredible and petulant outbursts by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry when he was in London negotiating with respect to the European Economic Community. He accused  Mr Heath  and  Mr Rippon  of double crossing Australia. That was last July. Such attacks have been deeply resented by the British Government as well as by the 6 European Economic Community nations. Of course, Britain countered by charging the Minister for Trade and Industry with grand standing to the rural electors of Australia. Certainly such illfounded outbursts by the  Deputy  Prime Minister have not helped in getting the best deal for Australia when Britain joins the European Economic Community. But the Prime Minister went to Britain not to abuse  Mr Heath  or  Mr Rippon.  as did the Minister for Trade and Industry, but to try to charm them and, I assume, to apologise for our behaviour during the last negotiations. Of course, the results have now emerged, as we have seen tonight. We have the illustrations regarding the key commodities of wool, in the case of the United States, and sugar, butter and fruit in the case of the European Common Market, and there was nothing positive at all about these matters in the statement made by the Prime Minister tonight. In fact, it was a travelogue; a travel story. He has achieved nothing positive for Australia in the field of trade. 
The Opposition supports the proposed work in the Northern Territory. We are most pleased lo support the proposed plan to build a laboratory to test brucella vaccine. I am quite certain that all honourable members are aware of the danger that brucellosis presents to the health of all animals. I refer particularly to brucella abortus and, to a minor degree, to the other 2 strains, brucella meliterisis and brucella suis. The motton which has just been agreed to by the House has brought forward these proposals and plans and the reports on them by the Public Works Committee. I understand that the Opposition will bc given a chance at a later stage to develop and to examine the recommendations of the Public Works Committee. 
The Opposition wishes to make quite clear that the Australian Labor Party opposed the legislation which introduced this excise on wine following the announcement of the imposition of that excise in the Budget Speech in 1970-71. Every member of the Liberal Party and every member of the Australian Country Party voted in favour of this vicious, unjustified tax. Let it be made quite clear right from the start that the tax - that is all it is - was supported by every member of the Country Party and particularly by honourable members opposite who have spoken today. It was supported by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who is now making a great stand and electoral play about being opposed to the tax. Of course, the wine grape growers in his electorate and in other electorates have revolted because they know, as the Opposition knows, that this tax should not have been imposed at that point of time. 
If the Government and the Treasury had done their homework they would have seen that already there was a downturn in the rate of growth as regards sales. This is important. Any government that deliberately defies these trends without going into the reasons for them deserves the censure of the people and the censure of this House. The Government is the Cabinet, no: the backbench members of the Liberal and Country Parties. The Government, as strictly defined, deserves censure. Now, because the pressure is on, its supporters ar- squealing. I have waited patiently for the Acting Minister for Primary Industry (M" Nixon) or the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  to get up and answer the charges that have been levelled a* the Government by the honourable member for Angas, by members on both sides of this Parliament and particularly by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  But we have a wall of silence. 
It was my turn to get up. You had all morning to get up. The Minister for Customs and Excise is worrying about the fact that he did not set up before. Now that I have challenged him he wants to get up. Rarely have we -seen in this Parliament such blatant acts of hypocrisy as we have seen today. 
I said 'of the Government'. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thank you for the ruling. I believe it is the correct one. 
I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Angas, the honourable member for Paterson - so that the listeners do not think that is me I will tell them that he is  Mr O'Keefe  - the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who seconded the motion although he did not speak - I assume he must agree with it - have deliberately and blatantly gone back on the aci ion they took only several months ago. 
We have seen today- 
When the vote was taken? 
If that is the case, 1 will do so. The member for Murray did vote for it. Certainly we accept that. Let me reiterate the points that have been made in this debate. This vicious tax has imposed an unjustifiable burden on the economic position not only of primary producers but also of those unfortunate people who have to pay exorbitant prices for Australian wines. There is no need for this. Why does the Government not take some action against imported wines? The LiberalCountry Party Government is supposed to protect the interests of primary producers. If ever any measure before this House sold out the primary producers this one does. It is quite clear that the only member from the Government side who has had the courage to defend the Government's action has been the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Every other Government  speaker  has condemned the issue. 
It is quite clear that if the Government does not review and revise its position and if it does not immediately repeal this vicious tax then more and more wine grape growers are going to be in serious trouble. As the level of growth of economic activity in this country lessens the spending power or the consumers' ability to purchase the same amount of wine decreases because of the increase in price. What this Government has done is ruthlessly to exploit the growers and the consumers. Anybody who studies economics knows that the supply is inelastic because the vines are there and they have to produce the wine irrespective of the price unless they want to go broke. The same thing applies to the people who consume the wine. My friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said that the consumers are the working people and the business people of Australia and they are being singled out deliberately by the Government. 
Calm down. It is quite clear that the wine industry, the growers to a man, and the consumers of wine all want this vicious tax to be lifted. Obviously this must be tested in the Parliament by a vote. The honourable member for Angas has made it quite clear- 
-I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
TheHousedivided 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on Notice No. I, General Business, being resumed and continued until the question is pui. 
The reason for moving the suspension of the Standing Orders is that it was evident just prior to the suspension of the sitting that both the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and the Acting Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  wished to speak to the motion moved by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  After I had risen to my feet both Ministers gave an indication that they wished to speak. Also I believe other honourable members on both sides of the House want to express their opinions on this most important subject. I do not wish to debate the issue but the issue is important and there can be no question that there is a need to finalise it. 
A motion was put this morning by the honourable member for Angas  and  a debate took place. Under the Standing Orders the debate had to be discontinued at 12.45 p.m. At that time I attempted to move the suspension of the Standing Orders but because of some confusion at the chair at the time there was some uncertainty as to whether I could move that motion at that point of time. I would think that an important issue has arisen in regard to the Standing Orders because it would seem that if we ever reach this position again under the Standing Orders the  Speaker  must at 12.45 p.m. interrupt the debate and under no circumstances may any honourable member move for the suspension of the Standing Orders. By the time I walk from where I sit to the table it is too late anyway. I had only one alternative and that was to rise from where I was seated right next to the chair and nsk that the Standing Orders be suspended. But in fairness to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  who occupied the chair at the time, there was some confusion and this is the reason why 1 have now moved this motion. 
It is essential that this debate bc continued. It is essential that the honourable member for Angas who moved this motion be given the opportunity to have honourable members from both sides of the Parliament vote on this motion, and particularly the members of the Australian Country Party and also the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who seconded the earlier motion, to enable them to express their opinions in this House. If they vote against this motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders everybody in this Parliament will know exactly what sort of people they are. 
It is quite clear that no amount of fine and fancy phrases by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  or, to use the words he used in his challenge to this side of the chamber, fancy footwork, will disguise the fact that in the mind of every member of Parliament who listended to the debate last Thursday both the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  gave us to understand that they supported the amendment which would provide the opportunity for serving members of the permanent forces, Army, Navy and Air Force, to secure a war service homes loan. The report on page 3713 of Hansard of 25th November 1971 shows that the honourable member for La Trobe actually invited the Opposition to move the amendment. He said: 
If the Opposition were to move an amendment which stated that servicemen of today, under today's conditions, should be entitled to war service homes, 1 would agree with that amendment, and I am sure that other honourable members on this side of the chamber would also agree with it. 
What could be clearer in anybody's language than that? That is precisely what the amendment is about. Yet we have witnessed today 2 Government supporters in order to get themselves off the hook, get up and say that they are not prepared to support the amendment. 
On page 3715 of Hansard the honourable member for Moreton is reported to have interjected to say: 
May I take it that you are fining it down to servin g members? 
The Opposition had the unqualified understanding that the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for La Trobe would be supporting this amendment. There can be no question about that. 
The honourable member should calm down; he has spoken twice. It is quite clear that the honourable member for La Trobe and the honourable member for Moreton must be classified as humbugs. 
I withdraw it. If the honourable member for Moreton is sincere he should move an amendment precisely along the lines he advocates. I have always felt that the honourable member has believed in what he has said in this Parliament but there is not the slightest doubt in my mind that he is splitting straws over this amendment. I will say no more than that on that matter. What I had intended to say concerns the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  I have been waiting patiently to hear him speak because he has a very important stake in this legislation, in Townsville today there is an Army base, Lavarack Barracks, and an Air Force base. The honourable member for Herbert knows full well that there arc men in Townsville who have been in the war zone. They have gone there in Hercules and other aircraft to ferry goods and ammunition and pick up troops but they are not included in the provisions of the War Service Homes Act. There are other members who are entitled- 
They were. 
It is quite obvious that the honourable member does not know his own Government's legislation; otherwise he would know that any person who volunteered for war service in the Second World War and had 6 months service was entitled to a war service homes loan. The honourable member knows nothing about the Act and I suggest that he keep quiet. 
1 am talking the truth. The precedent is there. I am glad that the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  has shown his complete ignorance of this legislation. Any member of the Navy, Army or Air Force who volunteered for service in World War II, providing he was in the Services for 6 months and irrespective of whether he served in or out of Australia or in or out of a war zone, was entitled to a war service homes loan. So surely the precedent is there. I want to hear from the honourable member for Herbert. I believe that in conscience he should support the amendment. He and 1 both know that there are servicemen in Townsville who are blatantly being, discriminated against. They are more entitled to the provisions of the Act than many other ex-servicemen with loans today who served in World War II. The Opposition believes that there should be no discrimination against anybody who volunteered to serve his country whether in the Army, Navy. Air Force or ancillary services. They should be entitled to war service home loans. 
There is a serious anomaly in the Act in this connection and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has moved that this anomaly be removed and constructive legislation implemented. It is quite clear that at the Lavarack Barracks and the Air Force base in Townsville there are many men who are being discriminated against under this legislation. When they are discharged eventually they will be able to say to their relatives and friends: 'We served within the borders of Vietnam. We flew aircraft within the borders of Vietnam but we art not entitled to war service home loans under this Government's disgraceful legislation.' Let us make it quite clear. Anybody would think, in view of this Government's pinch penny attitude towards this legislation, that these are grants; they are interest bearing loans and the Government will get the money back with a profit. One only has to look at the revenue which the Government earns from war service home loans today to see that this is really an investment on the part of this nation. The honourable member for Herbert should get up and declare himself on this legislation. He has a lot of people in Townsville at the Lavarack Barracks and the Air Force base who are watching this legislation very carefully because many of them are being discriminated against by this Government. What this Government has to do is amend the Act constructively and eradicate this blatant discrimination against servicemen, particularly those in the area about which I have been speaking, who have as much right to the provisions of the War Service Homes Act as many ex-servicemen who already have a loan or who are in the process of getting one. 
Clause 4 of the Bill reads: 
Moneys borrowed under this Act shall be issued and applied only for the expenses of borrowing and for the purpose of financial assistance to the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania in accordance with sub-section (1.) of section 2 of the States Grants (War Services Land Settlement) Act 1952-1953. 
I wish to refer specifically to the loan of $1.6m to Western Australia. Also, I want to protest at the way in which the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  so blatantly moved the gag on the second reading stage of the debate on this Bill. The honourable member is not even listening to what I have to say and that shows how much he cares about this chamber. Honourable members who spoke during the second reading stage came from Tasmania, South Australia and Queensland. The honourable member for Forrest, whose electorate is in. Western Australia, repre sents an area which has grave problems in war service land settlement. I think it is a disgraceful episode in the history of this Parliament that the honourable member for Angas should have the audacity to gag one of the most sincere and most dedicated members of this House who wants to speak about his own electorate in relation to this problem. I submit,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that you should allow him to speak. 

 - Mr Speaker, the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill 1971 provides for the raising of loan moneys of $4m for the States of South Australia, Tasmania and Western Australia. As is known to honourable members, the Commonwealth Governmentis responsible for the raising of all moneys for capital works under the war service land settlement scheme in those States. This money, for which we have seen provision made in this Parliament on an annual basis,  is required principally, I understand, to finance capital works in connection with drainage, pipelines and so on, mainly in the Upper Murray region of South Australia and in the vicinity of Loxton. Also the other needs of settlers have to be met in order to enable them to carry on their work. On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment to the motion That the Bill be now read a second time': 
That all words after 'That' bc omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of opinion that a Select Committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of War Service Land Settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement scheme with particular reference to the level of rentals demanded from settlers, the method of valuations and the option of purchase price of properties'. 
The question of the viability of the war service land settlement scheme has continued to come before this Parliament year after year. I think from memory that approximately 17 years ago it was forecast that the scheme would be viable, in terms of not requiring additional moneys from the nation, within a short period of time, but this has not eventuated. There always seem to be more demands for Commonwealth money with which to carry on works connected with the scheme. 
There can bc no question that serious economic problems have plagued the war service land settlement scheme, particularly in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, for a long period of years. As we know, the scheme which commenced during the last World War is built on tradition in the sense that tremendous public opinion is generated regarding the propriety and the need to give servicemen blocks of land on which to attempt to earn a living in the future. In fact, anybody who argued against this proposition during or after the war would have had very few friends. The emotional argument was to swoop onto the big estates, cut them up and give ex-servicemen blocks of land on which to earn a living. Whether the war service land settlement scheme has been a success will be judged over time. Many farmers have been very successful, but some, particularly in Tasmania and Western Australia, have experienced serious problems, and many of these problems have arisen through no fault of the farmers; they have arisen because of poor planning, wrong assumptions and of course a drastic change in financial conditions in previous years. 
It is interesting to look at the operation of the war service land settlement scheme in the various States. These figures are not accurate or up to date, but they are near enough to be relative. Since 1946 the bulk of closer settlement in Victoria has been carried out under the war service land settlement scheme. Approximately 3,000 blocks have been developed in Victoria and approximately 300 blocks have been surrendered. In the main I suppose one lo. .j .say that ih_ w:u  service  laud settlement scheme in Victoria has been a relative success, taking into account the qualifications regarding the  problem  particularly in the fruit areas, of salinity and drainage. Of course, the future will be of extreme importance to a lot of war service land settlers, especially in the fruit growing and canning areas. In Victoria the civilian closer settlement scheme has operated under the Land Settlement Act but this has been only a small scheme with approximately 440 blocks allocated. In South Australia over 1,000 blocks have been allocated and again the war service land settlement scheme has been the backbone of closer settlement there. In New South Wales approximately 3,000 farms have been settled under the scheme. In Queensland, which is not a very important State in terms of war service land settlement, approximately 470 farms have been allocated under the war service land settlement scheme. In recent years we have seen the major brigalow scheme which has been highly successful as a civilian closer settlement scheme. In Tasmania the number of farms allocated under the war service land settlement scheme is approximately 500. In Western Australia there have been about 1,000 farms allocated but there has been also quite a significant change in ownership of war service farms. Approximately 400 of the leases have been paid up and about 300 have changed hands and gone to civilians. 
Taken by and large there has been a very significant contribution to Australian primary production under the war service land settlement scheme. But there have developed serious financial problems in many States and it is quite obvious that in  some areas the policy of the Government is te which can only be described as suspect,rticularly in view of repayment provisions der the rental system which the Government is forcing on many farmers. It would seem from a study of some of the farms and from the evidence available that many of these high rentals are completely unjustified and have resulted in an artificial level of valuations. This is why the Opposition in its amendment moved during the second reading stage of the Bill specifically referred to the rentals and the method of valuation. A revised policy on rentals is needed. Of course, there has been a drastic change in economic circumstances but this will always be a problem in any land settlement scheme whether it be soldier settlement or civilian settlement. All the best made assumptions can fall by the wayside if there is a drastic change in the circumstances. This is why it is of paramount importance that there should be an investigation by a committee, of inquiry to lay down guidelines based on what has been learned. Honourable members will recall that during the war the Rural Reconstruction Commission investigated the performance of war service land settlement in an attempt to give the Government the facts and so avoid some of the problems and mistakes that were made in the earlier War service land settlement schemes. 
One of the great problem's with civilian and war service land settlement schemes is determining the size of farms. One can work out budgets on income and costs based on the best possible advice. There could be some scope for measuring or projecting the level of costs in line with technology, and at the same time projecting productivity as land is cleared and drained. Science and technology are able to predict with some degree of accuracy increases in yields or carrying capacity and other factors. But the one big variable in Australian agriculture, particularly if the product is being produced for the export market, is the price of the commodity. We have seen this today with dramatic realism in the price of wool. The budgets that were formulated in the early days of the war service land settlement scheme were based on the relationship of cost and income, which is tremendously different from the relationship between cost and income today due to the fact that we have seen a dramatic change in the price of wool. The same applies to other commodities. So it is essential, the Opposition believes, that in the formulation of future land settlement schemes every effort be made to provide to the public, the Government and the Parliament evidence based on the experience of war service land settlers to date. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  will illustrate to the House, there are a lot of very unsavoury aspects about the behaviour up to the present time of many war service land settlement provisions, these arc matters that should be brought out into the open and from which we have to learn because we should not make the same mistakes again. This is something of utmost importance. In the early days of the war service land settlement scheme - one of the first jobs I ever had was working on it - the selection of land, the investigation of that land, the investigation of its productivity, the establishment of economic budgets and the determination of a farm size were done as thoroughly as possible. The determination of the farm size was based on an area which would allow a man, his wife and family to live comfortably once the development period was over and took into account his ability to meet his repayments. In some areas it has worked but in a large number of areas it has not and this has caused extreme hardship to a significant number of settlers. In fact the performance of the war service land settlement scheme will provide evidence for a government, whether a Liberal-Country Party government or a Labor Party government, so that it can decide whether to embark on similar types of schemes in the future. 
There is a very large body of expert opinion in Australia which is very much opposed to closer settlement in view of the problems involved in it. A lot of this criticism is being directed at the performance of war service land settlement schemes. 1 have always been opposed to closer settlement unless the closer settlement has been systematically, scientifically and economically formulated. It is a fatal mistake simply to work on the emotional basis that one can sub-divide land by drawing lines on a map and putting people on the resulting blocks, particularly if the majority of these settlers have insufficient capital to begin with. This is one of the greatest problems in settling land today. There have been too many of what we call pocket handkerchief developments throughout Australia. These were undedtaken in periods when prices and costs bore a certain relationship. As we know, many of these relationships have gone haywire today. 
I reiterate that the Government, whichever government it may be, must take very keen notice of what has happened in the past and apply its experience to the needs of the future because agriculture will become more and more difficult in terms of a business enterprise. This does not necessarily mean that closer settlement schemes are finished. I for one believe, as I said a few minutes ago, that if a closer settlement scheme is based on science, technology, economics and experience, it has a good chance of success provided that the incoming settler has sufficient money. As far as I am concerned, the days of the bark hut, the humpy and the axe are over. Anybody who thinks that he can go into timbered land, for example, today and make a living in his lifetime starting from scratch without any money is in for a pretty sad awakening. I would say that it is impossible. 
It has been done in the past. I know that a lot of the pioneering work the results of which are seen in Australia today started that way. But, today, a land settlement scheme demands money. I think that the best example of a successful land settlement scheme in Australia today is the brigalow scheme in Queensland. It is interesting to note that brigalow development was rejected initially from inclusion in the war service land settlement scheme as a major project. I am very thankful that it was rejected because insufficient technical knowledge was available. If it had developed into a major war service land settlement scheme rather than one covering only a few small properties, that scheme would have been a smash because the properties envisaged would have been just too small. 
Let me show why 1 believe this. Before the Federal Government agreed to the current brigalow scheme, years of research were carried out into the behaviour of brigalow and its associations with other types of timber, be it brigalow wilga, brigalow balah, brigalow eucalyptic varieties, brigalow softwoods. Each land class had a different characteristic. It was essential that one knew what these characteristics were because the brigalow tree is a member of the acacia family. The suckering habits of acacias are notorious because the colonies are interlocked under the soil. To ringbark one mature acacia could promote the growth of 10 or 20 acacia suckers to replace the one that has been killed. All of these matters needed lots of research. But it was carried out, particularly by the Queensland authorities and, to a minor degree, by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
The same thing happened with respect to cattle research. A lot of work was done. Research work was carried out. Problems studied included growing winter crops and summer crops and weight gains in cattle. In the end, sufficient information was provided through research and practical experience of producers to be able to predict with some degree of certainty the behaviour of the brigalow areas. Then the economics came into the pic:ure. They were able to evaluate the whole area through land classification from aerial maps and from actual surveys. With the Queensland Government and the CSIRO, an up-to-date cost benefit analysis plan was put forward. This scheme, I believe, will be a success. But one must ask: What would have happened if cattle prices had fallen in the same way as wool prices have? 
No matter how thorough the technical and economical examination if cattle prices had fallen in the way in which wool prices have fallen the brigalow land scheme would have been a failure in the short term. But luckily we are very fortunate in that there is apparently a very good future in cattle. All indications are that there is a good future in beef cattle for a very long time to come despite the potential threat from synthetic meats. 1 am trying to illustrate the difference between a well formulated plan such as existed in many areas of the war service land settlement scheme based on the wool price and a certain farm size in 1946 and" the brigalow land settlement scheme, a  well formulated plan based on cattle prices. As I said before, the gamble is there, lt will hurt more than anyone else the battler or settler - whatever one might like to call him - who with his family goes on to the land when he does not have sufficient funds and is battling right from the word go, endures 2 years of drought and gets further and further behind. These are the great problems that face all land settlement schemes today. I strongly urge tha* governments, State or Federal, not go ahead with comprehensive or extensive land settlement schemes or closer settlement schemes unless a most thorough scientific and economic evaluation is made. It would be far better if the governments  concerned, to be on the safe  side, doubled the optimum farm size, lt is far better for Australia to have 90 prosperous Farmers than 100 peasant or struggling farmers simp))- because of a mistake made in determining the size of farms. It is far better to err on the side of bigness than to try lo squeeze a few more people into these schemes. 
When the brigalow scheme was formulated there was an argument between the Commonwealth and the Queensland Government with respect to farm size. The State wanted blocks of an average of 7,000 acres while the Commonwealth wanted an average of about 10,000 acres. Luckily the Commonwealth economists were able to convince the State that in the long run it would be far better to err on the side of bigness because of The conditional freehold title that applied. They argued that if the larger blocks proved successful to the point of going into agriculture they could be cut up later into smaller blocks. This will happen. In time the 10 million acres of brigalow country being developed today will be a very intensive farming area based on coarse grain and some wheat - basically summer grains and cattle fattening. What I am trying to illustrate is that it is essential to apply good planning to both schemes. 
The Bill before the House which provides this money is, as I said, a perennial one - we get it every year. But what I would like to ask the Minister is this: Has he any estimate of when this scheme in terms of making continuous capital grants for these properties, will be finalised. My colleague the honourable member for 
Braddon  (Mr Davies)  will point out that the scheme has dragged on and on year after year. In view of the problems in the south west of Western Australia, in some parts of South Australia and certainly in some parts of Tasmania, it seems to me that the scheme will drag on for another 20 years. One point that has to be emphasised, I believe, is that some compassion has to be shown towards those settlers who are in serious financial trouble through no fault of their own. That is the most pressing problem facing the Government today. It has to show some compassion to the mounting - not decreasing - number of soldier settlers in these 3 States, but particularly in Western Australia and Tasmania, who are in serious financial trouble, it seems to me that they have no hope at all of getting out of their financial trouble, but rather will get further and further into trouble. I believe that the Government's policy with regard to rentals is iniquitous and one of which the Government ought to be thoroughly ashamed. It is most difficult to find out how this rental system works and how this valuation system works. 
According to my honourable friend, it is crooked. I have no doubt that he will explain what he means by that. 1 believe that the Government has to come clean in relation to this matter and give the Parliament and its members more information, because there have been some fairly unsavoury aspects in some cases with respect of this scheme. There have been cases in which it would seem that officials have gone back on their word in regard to this scheme. But, speaking generally, I believe that the Government ought to support the amendment, principally for the purpose of initiating an investigation from which we can learn. 1 think that every fair minded member of this House would agree that the present scheme was initiated in good faith after the Rural Reconstruction Commission made certain recommendations and that we can learn many lessons from ihe operation of the scheme. Land settlement schemes will go on in Australia, particularly in the northern areas, for a long time to come. We have to learn from our mistakes. 
Of course, we have not only war service land settlement schemes but also civilian land settlement schemes. The scheme implemented by the Australian Mutual Provident Society, for example, is reasonably successful. On the other hand, the less we say about Humpty Doo the better. The Esperance scheme did not get off to a very good start, as those who were associated with it in its early days know. Bli? n &gt;. learn from all these schemes. One can always learn from mistakes.' lt is for that reason that the Opposition has moved an amendment with particular reference to rentals and the method of valuations. I conclude by saying again that the Government has to act and show some leniency understanding and compassion towards those soldier settlers and their families ' :n Australia today who, through no fault of their own, are in pitiful and serious financial difficulties. 
One of the most remarkable statements just made by the Minister for Trade and Industry(Mr Anthony) was that the Government has shown that it is quick to act when action is considered necessary. Can you imagine a more incredible statement? Every wool grower in Australia is condemning this Government for its lack of action with respect to marketing. Seven years ago the predecessor of the Minister for Trade and Industry, the then  Deputy  Prime Minister, now  Sir John  McEwen, knew full well - as he has subsequently let slip - that the writing was on the wall for some major portions of the wool industry. He knew, as he has frequently admitted, that the best proposal then was for a stabilisation and reserve price scheme for wool. Now, 7 years later, the Government has finally woken up to the fact that it has to have a drastic reform in wool marketing, a drastic reform in respect of acquisition of wool and a reserve price scheme for wool. In that 7 years we have seen the wool industry depressed, on its knees. The Minister for Trade and Industry has the audacity to tell this House that this Government has a remarkable record for quick action. What happened with regard to wheat? The Government waited until there was a crisis in the wheat industry and then it acted to bring in a quota system. The wheat industry in some parts of Australia is still in a shambles because of the quota system. 
Or PATTERSON- No. I am not against it and the Minister knows this. The wheat industry is in a shambles in some areas because of the inequitable quota system, as the Minister well knows. Then, of course, we had the most remarkable statement of all on decentralisation. If there is any Party today that is opposed to decentralisation it is the Australian Country Party. Have we ever heard of the Minister for Trade and Industry saying in his own electorate that there should be industry in Richmond? Can anyone imagine what would happen if we had a steel mill in the electorate of the Minister? He would not be here after the next election. That is exactly what, would happen. I repeat that if there is one Party that is opposed to decentralisation it is the Country Party. It prides itself in the action it has taken. Where is the action of decentralisation? Where are the reports on decentralisation? Do we ever hear a member of the Country Party advocating industrial growth in a Country Party electorate? Of course we do not; not one of them would advocate that. I can give honourable members a classic example in my own electorate which concerns the coal mine at Goonyella. What did the Country Party Stale member of Parliament do in that instance? Within a matter of weeks of the finalisation of the mine enterprise he got the shire boundaries changed so that eventually his electorate will be changed. This is what members of the Country Party do. 
If there is one depressed electorate in Australia, it is the electorate of Kennedy. 1 was in the electorate of Kennedy only last week. I met a girl there who had just finished sitting for her senior examination. She could not get a job in Longreach. She could not get a job even in a cafe. That is how the Country Party's policy affects the electorate of Kennedy. Let us look at the Government. This Government has been in power for 22 years,  lt  is well to remember the famous oration delivered by the then  Mr Robert  Menzies He said: 'We will put value back in the pound'. Look at what has happened after this Government has been in power for 22 years. This Government's economic policies have failed, and that is what this motion is about today. Will honourable members opposite deny that there is a lack of confidence throughout the Australian economy? A lack of confidence in this Government's policies is sweeping the Australian economy. Unemployment is spreading and growing at an alarming rate. We had the colossal ignorance of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who told us that this year school leavers will not have very much trouble in getting jobs. Let them go into Country Party electorates and try to get jobs. Let them go into the electorate of Kennedy, to which the Minister for Trade and Industry has referred, and try to get jobs. Let them go into any wool growing electorate and try to  set  jobs. What will they have to do? The poor kids in country areas will have to leave the country and come to the cities and try to get jobs, and by doing so they drag their families with them. Yet the Country Party talks about decentralisation. 
After listening to the  Deputy  Prime Minister one would think that there is no such thing as a rural crisis in Australia. Yet every speech that has been made by members of the Country Party in recent months has been based on calamity howling about the rural crisis. Now we hear from the Leader of the Country Party that there is no rural crisis. Let him tell that to the Australian wool growers. In the wool growing areas throughout Australia there is mounting misery, mounting bankruptcy and mounting numbers of people walking off their properties; and going to the cities. But the Country Party says that there is no rural crisis in Australia. Of course there is a rur.il crisis, and every member of this Parliament knows that there are very serious problems in the wool growing areas of Australia. The  Deputy  Prime Minister glossed over the fact that a tremendous amount of foreign capital is coming into Australia. He said that this is a good thing. Yet not one attempt has been made to explain what this tremendous increase in foreign capital in the last 12 months is doing. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  made an attempt to explain it, but he made no attempt to tell us about the S700m which he said is coming to Australia by way of loans. For what are these loans being used? Can the money go out of Australia just t as fast as it has come in? This is what we want to find out. 
Not one word has been said about the pensioners of this country. The Government talks glibly about inflation, but not one Government speaker has referred to th' Australian pensioners or to the low income earners, of whom large numbers are living in desperate poverty today. Do honourable members opposite deny that? They are so out of touch with the rank and file people in Australia that they do nor really know how pensioners live. Honourable members opposite talk about planning, but this Liberal-Country Party Government has rejected every constructive report that has been aimed at achieving an efficient allocation of resources. The Government ridiculed the report of the Vernon Committee of Economic inquiry. If the Government reads that report now it will find that a lot of the conclusions reached by that Committee are very true. Then there was the Loder report on transport costs in Australia. The Government tried to withhold that report for years, and then it condemned the report when it was released. This is the record of this Government which has been in power for 22 years. 
We saw the disgraceful performance only in recent months of a member of the Country Party hawking land in northern Australia on foreign stock exchanges. What did this Government do about it? Nothing. This Government's record is a record of a nation in an economic mess; a nation without any real semblance of an economic plan. This Government has stop-go policies which, at the very most, cannot be explained. These policies just have not been explained to us, and as long as they are not explained to us this .nation will  go  further into an economic mess. It is  a  sorry, miserable mess, and certainly there is need for greater action. As the Minister for Trade and Industry has suggested, we should have a government which will take action when action is necessary. Surely there is a need for action now. 
The burning question is the state of the economy and the widespread lack of confidence in the Australian economy by the Australian people. Will this Government deny that there has been a crash on the stock market in the last 6 months? Surely that is one of the best indicators of lack of confidence throughout Australia. Before the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  entered the chamber I had reminded the House of the famous words of the then  Mr Menzies.  He said: 'We will put value back into the pound'. The official indices of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics show that since this Government came into power in 1949 the index of prices paid by primary producers of Australia for materials, etc, has increased by 177 per cent. In the last 12 months the consumer price index has increased by 6.5 per cent, and there is continual erosion of the purchasing power of our money. 
The Government talks glibly about unemployment. It says that the position is not very serious; that there are only 63,000 people unemployed in Australia. This is not serious to the Government, but it is serious to the people who have the misfortune to be unemployed and to their families. It is serious to those people who only this week have received dismissal or retrenchment notices from the great manufacturing and mining enterprises of this nation. But the Government does not think anything of this. What are the Government's estimates with respect to the number of people who will be unemployed by next February? We have not heard one word from the Treasurer about those estimates. There are all sorts of estimates, varying from 120,000 to 180,000, as to the number of people who will be unemployed by the end of February next year. 
We heard the remarkable statement by the Minister for Labour and National Service that school leavers will have practically no trouble in getting jobs. I have already referred to that matter. The Minister for 
Trade and Industry challenged me about the employment position in the electorate of Kennedy, and I gave an example which concerned the electorate of Kennedy. If the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  were to say that everything is rosy in the electorate of Kennedy, nobody in the electorate of Kennedy would believe him. The question concerning school leavers is something which this Government has to take into account very seriously. The nation as well as the families directly concerned, has spent very large sums of money on educating those children. There is nothing more humiliating and degrading to a young nation like Australia than to find that when a boy or girl leaves school after receiving a formal education, say, to matriculation standard, that boy or girl cannot get a job. There is nothing more humiliating and degrading to one who has spent years of his or her life in obtaining a university degree than to find that he or she cannot get a job. Ask a lot of the geologists who are leaving our universities where they will get employment. Ask a lot of the students leaving school after having passed their senior examination where they will get jobs. Do not try to tell me that they will get jobs in rural areas because they will not be able to do so. 
Official figures indicate that 40 per cent of the people unemployed in Australia are in rural areas. Another 35 per cent is in the provincial cities as a direct result of problems in the rural areas, making a total of 75 per cent. A significant portion of those people who are out of work in the metropolitan areas is directly due to problems of unemployment and to lack of demand in the country areas. There is a lack of confidence in this nation and confidence must be stimulated. The people's confidence in the economy must be stimulated. 
The Treasurer referred to a growth of income and he used this growth of income or the growth rate to justify the state of the economy. But the latest figures contained in the Treasury Bulletin show that a significant portion of the growth of income is due to a high rate of savings and not to increased spending. Another indicator is the increase in liquidity in the banking sector. Figures show that there has been an increase in savings bank deposits. This again indicates a lack of confidence in the economy, because the rate of spending has decreased. Honourable members may be interested in indicators. If one examines the proportion of consumption over gross national product, one will find a considerable decline in the last 12 months. A better indicator of the significant drop in the rate of consumption is found by relating consumption to the personal disposable income. Surely, all these indicators show a significant lack of confidence in the economy. The increase in the liquidity in the banking sector is shown by the increase in savings, the increase in primary liquidity and the non-official holdings of the longterm Government securities assets, which is now over $300m greater than for the same period 12 months ago. In other words, all this shows that the people of Australia have lost faith and confidence in this Government. They are refusing to spend their money. This is a serious matter. 
There are other indicators in the economy. There has been a significant drop in the number of houses and flats which have been commenced in the first 6 months of 1971. Motor vehicle production is down; agricultural machinery production particularly is well down; cement production is down; Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd steel production is down; the production of chemicals is going down and the production of fertilisers is going down, yet this is the economy which the Government maintains is on an even keel, is right and is viable. The Treasurer and other speakers from the Government side have made a great play about foreign investment. From listening to those speakers there can be no doubt that they are the champions of foreign capital - the champions of foreign takeovers of Australian assets. I should have thought that they would have heeded the warnings of men like  Sir Ian  Potter against this mad inflow of foreign capital in the last 12 months. We still can find no real explanation for this inflow and just what it is doing in this country. This is something to which I believe the Government should give the highest priority. The official explanation given by the Treasury is that most of this money is financing companies already in Australia, but we want to know whether this money can depart from Australia just as quickly as it has come in. Is it hot money? What is this money? It is impossible to find out from any official document put out by the Treasury details in relation to the motivation of this money which is coming into Australia. Government supporters speak in terms of our healthy balance of payments but surely the reserves are increasing because of the rush of this foreign money or this hot money into Australia? This is one of the basic reasons why Australia's international reserves are increasing and this only makes it more important that we be provided with more information about foreign reserves, foreign currency or the source of this money. 
The Australian public is fed up with this Government's lack of action on the economy and its refusal to lay down positive guidelines for foreign investment. An attempt was made by the Prime Minister's predecessor to lay down guidelines on foreign investment, but it was not precise enough. The Labor Party wants to know in more precise terms the behaviour of foreign investment in Australia. Government supporters have talked about the fact that America was developed with foreign capital, but let us forget what happened in those days and think more of what is happening now. What happened in Canada when that country had problems with foreign capital? lt was forced to take drastic action and we in Australia also may be forced to lake drastic action. This country needs positive leadership, particularly in th field of primary industry with which I am concerned. 
A most remarkable statement was made today by the Minister for Trade and Industry and Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who talked of the achievements of his Government in the field of primary industry. Never has this nation been worse off in terms of a rural crisis, especially in the wool industry - our greatest industry - since the depression of 1929-30 and yet positive action still has not been taken in the field of marketing. The Government still believes in the auction system. Of course it does. It is tied hand and foot to the private banks, to the hire purchase companies and to the pastoral houses and it dare not give the auction system away, because if this were done, it would immediately and ruthlessly dismiss these middle men who are the friends of the Government and who actually finance the Government. One cannot convince one primary producer in Australia, particularly if he is concerned with wool, that this Government has done a good job in primary industry. For that reason, I wholeheartedly support the motion moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  condemning this Government for its failure in economic policies 
The objective of the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1971-72 is  to  make provision for a loan of $30m to the Australian Wool Commission  to  allow it to continue to carry out its functions under the Australian Wool Commission Act. The principal objective of the Bill is to reduce the variation in auction prices which has been so pronounced in recent years in the hope that some stability will be reached in the wool industry and, at the same time, to stop wool being sold at disastrously low prices. The Commission bought a significant number of bales of wool during the 1970-71 season. In that period the Commission also resold some 73,000 bales of its stocks. At the commencement of the 1971-72 season stock in hand amounted to approximately 430,000 bales. 
As we know, events have taken place this year which have had a drastic effect on the wool industry and. of course, on other sections of the economy. The most significant effect this year without doubt has been the decision of the United States Government with respect to economic conditions within the United States.I refer to the decision of the United States to impose a surcharge of 10 per cent on imports and the consequential effects on international currency.It is true that these events could not have been predicted. That decision has had a substantial effect on the quantity of wool that has been purchased and the enthusiasm of wool buyers. As a result the Wool Commission, operating within the provisions of the Australian Wool Commission Act, increased significantly its purchases of the wool offered for sale. 
At the time when the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  made his second reading speech in introducing the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) the Commission's stocks were in excess of 700,000 bales of wool, which is a very significant amount. Up to the present time the Commission has had a total working capital of$86m of which$22m is provided under parliamentary appropriation. An amount of$12m was provided in the last financial year and$10m has been provided in this financial year. Approximately$64m has been made available by the banking sector. We have been told that $30m will have to be repaid by April next year. This money is not an interest free loan; it is interest bearing loan. The Commission was faced with the problem that if it continued to purchase wool it would run out of money. It is obvious to most honourable members who have studied this legislation and who have studied the conditions of wool selling over the last 2 seasons that if the Commission failed to buy more wool because of a lack of money there would be a significant collapse in wool prices. In fact there would be a disaster because the buyers themselves would make certain that the price would drop further. Chaos would have been created in the industry if the Wool Commission had suddenly stopped buying wool. 
The Government, I assume, had very little alternative. It had to accept the fact that the Wool Commission must continue  to buy wool in the short term until more drastic marketing operations are introduced in terms of reform or simply not support the Commission any longer. As I have already said this would have been disastrous for the wool industry and it would have been a retrograde step in the Australian economy because although the wool growers are protected by the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act the failure of the Commission to buy wool would have cost the taxpayers of Australia a lot more than the proposed $30m loan.It is quite certain that if the Commission had stopped buying the fall in the price of wool would have been significantly greater than $30m in total value. It would probably have been double that amount. The fall would have been accelerated by buyer resistance and other measures. Certainly one can say with some degree of certainty that the $30m is really an investment because it has saved the taxpayers' money. Without this loan possibly $60m would be needed for deficiency payments which are grants and not loans. I think that the economic logic is there. Thatis certainly my analysis of it, anyhow. 
The Treasurer's warning is very interesting. As one who had a lot to do with Cabinet submissions, decisions and interpretations some years ago I would think from reading between the lines of the second reading speech of the Treasurer that this warning was in fact a Cabinet decision because it is not often that one sees in a second reading speech this type of wording which is pretty blunt both to the industry and to everybody else concerned. The Treasurer said: 
Looking further ahead, to 1972-73 and subsequent years, it is clear that the level of support provided to the wool industry this year, through deficiency payments and the Commission's reserve price operations, cannot be continued. 
This is the Government speaking. I would think that that is probably what Cabinet decided, almost in that language. Certainly the Treasury takes the view that no industry can expect an open-ended commitment on the part of the Government and the taxpayer. The Australian Labor Party, too, takes that view. Our policy is quite clear on this matter. We would not agree to any stabilisation scheme which had an openended commitment. The Government has been able to get away with it. I say quite bluntly here that no Labor government would agree to an open-ended proposition whereby the sky was the limit: There hasto be a potential liability in terms of a restriction on the total amount of money available to the industry. Every (stabilisation scheme and every deficiency payments scheme up until the time of the (introduction of this one has had a total money liability or a liability which could be tied to a particular amount, whether it be determined by production as is the case with a quota system in some industries or whether it be a total monetary figure. For example, in regard to the wheat industry or the cotton industry you say to the grower: If you produce above this figure you do so at your own risk and the amount received per pound or whatever it is will be reduced'. It is clear that the Government is convinced that this is not a solution to the Wool Commission's problems. The Labor Party was convinced in April last year. We were ridiculed in this House because we put forward schemes for the acquisition of wool and a statutory marketing authority but it is becoming very clear now that this is in fact what the industry wants. 
propose an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time' to test the sincerity of the Government in this matter. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of the opinion that complementary legislation should be introduced without delay to establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip and that this authority should encompass the functional responsibilities of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission'. 
This motion repeats what we have been saying since April last year. Time and again in this Parliament when we have put this matter to a vote the members of the Australian Country Party in particular have voted against it. I have little doubt that the Country Party will again follow that course of action and vote against this amendment despite the fact that this is what the wool industry wants. This is what the industry has told the Government that it wants. 1 have no doubt that some of the members of the Country Party who will get up to speak on this Bill will do exactly as they did in regard to the Bill which imposed the excise duty on wine; they will argue one way and vote the other. But we will wait to see what happens: 
I want to say a few words in support of the amendment. I think it is fair to say. judging from experience in recent years, that the only way to explain the present organisation of the wool industry in Australia is to say that it is inefficient. There can be no double meaning to that word. Too many people in the wool industry today have lived on the old sayings and the old formulations of tradition, resisting the dynamic changes in economic policy both in Australia and overseas. For that reason. I say that the present system of producing wool after it is shorn, selling it and shipping it is archaic and that it has to be changed as quickly as possible. I want to explain why I believe that the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission should be brought under the one head. First of all. the function of the International Wool Secretariat is to promote wool throughout the world. It has little powers other than that. Tie function of the Australian Wool Board is to promote wool in Australia and also throughout the world, lt has some powers with respect lo research and to investigations. We know that the Australian Wool Commission has powers with respect to the purchase and sate of the Australian clip. So I think it is important today that we should stop the present fragmentation of the wool industry. We have to bring it together under one strong, commercially viable, managerial head. 
The first thing we have to do is to establish a statutory marketing authority for the wool industry along the lines which I have suggested and which the industry now wants. One might say that means that we should abolish the Wool Board and the Wool Commission. It does not mean it in that sense. It simply means that we have to encompass the functional responsibilities of those 2 bodies within a statutory marketing authority. I believe that this is a constructive policy and one which is needed. What is the opposition to a statutory marketing authority for the wool industry? It is that such a move is a socialistic measure, in the same way as all stabilisation schemes in Australia are socialistic measures. I suppose that the most socialistic enterprise in Australia today is the sugar industry. Probably not one decision can be taken in that industry unless it is supported, recommended or agreed to by either a State or a Federal government. 
The principal opposition to a statutory marketing authority for the wool industry would come from Government supporters. I would presume that a large section of the Liberal Party would be opposed .to the orderly marketing of wool because, after  all.  it would mean the end of the broker. lt would mean also the end, to a large degree,  of  the selling functions of the large pastoral houses, lt would reduce, to a significant degree, the operations of the private banking sector in relation to the wool growers. I also know that the most powerful opposition would come from the vested interests - the wool brokers - and this. I believe, is a tragedy for Australia. 1 think that throughout Australia this is the section which must really be blamed for stopping the implementation of the reserve price scheme approximately 7 years ago.  If  that scheme had been introduced 7 years ago, at the present time we would have objective measurement to a far greater degree than wc have. We would have selling by sample, by core testing  and  so  on.  But unfortunately, because  of  the tremendous lobbying that occurred in the wool industry the weol grower, who, after all. is  an  ordinary person, was confused  and  hevoted against the proposal. That was  :i  tragedy for the wool industry. Rut, of course, it is  do  good looking backwards: one has  to  look forwards. 
The other major opponent to the setting up  of  a statutory marketing authority in the wool industry would be the international wool buyers. We know from experience that Japan does not like this type of authority. Wc know the part that Japan played in the negotiations concerning the 
International Sugar Agreement. Japan would like to see completely world free flowing commodities because it is a strong, almost unilateral single buyer and it can exert tremendous influence on the price of a commodity in a particular country. We have seen the way in which the Japanese operated in the early days with respect to the policy relating to the export of iron ore deposits from Western Australia. So we have opposition to the setting up of a statutory marketing authority for the wool industry. What I would like to hear tonight is what the members of the Country Party think of the proposal, because- this is important. If the members of the Country Party realise, as I am sure a lot of them do, the urgency for completely reorganising the marketing system for wool, then they have to put pressure on the rest of the Liberal-Country Party regime to get the scheme introduced into the Parliament and passed as soon as possible. As I have said previously, and I repeat it, one of the most depressing aspects of politics is to sec people going around the country stating what they believe and then refusing to back up those statements in the Parliament. 
I am not one of those people who believe that a statutory marketing authority will significantly increase prices in the wool industry unless, of course, collusion can be proved. I make that qualification. If there is, in fact, significant collusion in wool buying today, that is to say, if the Japanese are significantly entering into gentlemen's agreements, for example, then a statutory authority would have a chance to increase prices significantly. But just because there is a strong single buyer it does not necessarily mean that there will be a significant increase in the price of wool in the short term. The great benefits of a statutory marketing authority and of a strong single buyer are, first of all, significant cost savings, and I do not think that anybody will argue about that. There will be significant cost savings because one only has to look, for example, at the difference in the selling charges between the private sale of wool and the sale of wool through the auction system. There is a significant difference, and there will be a significant saving in costs with a single buyer simply because the operations of a large number of middle mcn will be eliminated. 
I do not want to be optimistic and say that a statutory marketing authority for the wool industry will increase significantly the price of wool immediately because 1 do not think it will. I think it will do so in the long term, because in the long term I believe that a strong single marketing authority will bc able to negotiate bilateral agreements with the European Economic Community countries, with Japan, wilh China and with Russia- with the Communist bloc. 1 think that perhaps the future of wool lies in the export of textiles from Japan to the United States of America and the export of greasy wool from Australia to the United States of America. If we can sell wool in the same way as we sell other major commodities, particularly if the quality of wool can be improved and if we can sell by sample or by some other objective measurement, we will have a chance to increase significantly the price of wool and the return to wool growers. 
Another important factor is that I believe there will be considerable savings in that a strong single buyer under an authority will be able to exercise a powerful voice with respect to shipping and also in the calling of lenders, as has been done in other industries with the same type of management. A better price may be obtained for items such as pesticides, materials and wool bales, to name but a few. We must recognise that there are dangers. We ail know that tremendous debts are owed to the private banks, the pastoral houses and the finance companies. What will these institutions do if a statutory marketing authority is implemented? They would be within their legal rights in applying greater pressure than they arc now doing and in foreclosing. This would cause panic selling of properties. This happened once in the depression years and the government of the day stepped in with special moratorium legislation in the Federal Parliament and with mirror legislation in the States, and immediately, through this specific legislation, it stopped these panic moves. This could also be done at this time, if it were thought that, say. a trustee company or somebody else was putting pressure on and demanding its pound of flesh immediately because such action could cause a race throughout the economy or a panic in selling properties. Machinery is available to stop any panic moves in the event of a statutory marketing authority being implemented. 
I think it is also necessary for me to say a few words about synthetics, lt is no good our running away from the future. The great question is: What is the future of wool? Has it a future? Will it degenerate into an exclusive and high priced commodity in the same category and classification as the fillet steak from a beef carcass, for which there is only a limited demand, or will it again become viable in the future? Who knows? I believe that we must examine - the International Wool Secretariat in particular must give more attention to this - the marriage of wool with synthetics. If years ago we had recognised the efficiency of and the great threat presented by synthetics and had worked in with the chemical companies, instead of some people in the wool industry standing on their great high horse and continually preaching that there was nothing to surpass wool in the same manner as did the dairying industry in respect of its products, the wool industry would not be in anything like the mess it is in today. In other words, there must be a marriage of wool with synthetics; there must be an active liaison between the 2. Today, there is continuous active competition between them. I believe we should try to achieve an active liaison between and an active mixing of synthetics and wool. If this is not done it is certain that in real terms, the polyesters, the nylons and the acrylics will reduce more and more in price and this in turn, will reduce further the price of wool. In other words, the ceiling price for wool will be fixed by the price of synthetics. 
In money terms. 
By real terms, I mean that the increases in costs of production and changes in money values must be taken into account. For example, in the real relationship between the price of acrylics and price of wool, the gap will get smaller and smaller and this will force down the price of wool further and further in relation to the price of acrylics. In other words, the price of acrylics could go up but that industry will become more and more efficient. When 1 look at the capital investment of the chemical companies in the world, their efficiency in management and their technology, it seems to me quite clear that they will become more and more efficient than the wool industry unless the wool industry changes its entire marketing pattern. That is only a supposition which I put forward; nobody knows what will happen. I put forward my belief that we have to marry wool with synthetics. 1 know this will be resisted by a large section of the wool industry which will still claim that we must keep wool away from synthetics. 
Yes but there would still be the diehards who would stick to the old school of thought that wool must be kept away from synthetics and must compete with them. I think to do this would be a mistake. The last point I want to make concerns the location of wool. One of the great problems of the wool industry today is attracting new users of wool. Can honourable members imagine the International Wool Secretariat, for example, going to Boston, in the United States of America, and saying to a manufacturer: What about giving wool a try?' The merchant who owns this business says: 'All right, I will give it a try. Where do I get the wool?' The IWS says: 'Get hold of a wool buyer, go to Australia and pick up some wool.' What does the merchant say? He says: 'Like hell 1 will. 1 can ring Dupont down the road and get exactly what I want in synthetics. It will be delivered the next day'. The time it would lake to come to Australia, get the wool and finally produce a cloth would be at least 9 months. The merchant wants to have woo! on hand in a certain quantity in the warehouses so that he can ring up and order it. Thai is the way marketing is done today, not the archaic way we do it in Australia. The whole objective of the amendment again is to change drastically our method of marketing, to bring the wool to the buyer, the user or the manufacturer so that he will have it close to him. All these things have to be considered and I am sure they are being considered because the wool industry is certainly not sleeping on this matter. Something positive has to be done about this operation. I have moved the amendment and I hope that the Government will support it. 
The first point to be made concerns the last part of the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when he said: 
This proposal, of course, demonstrates the Government's readiness to respond to changing circumstances. 
This is a parallel lo the statement made yesterday by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  that the Government acts very quickly when action is needed. The Opposition completely and utterly refutes the statement by the Prime Minister that 'he Government acts quickly. 
The PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  was called the minister for stamps yesterday. He should go back to his stamp office. If he stopped closing country post offices at the rate he has been closing them he might get more respect from the people of Australia. The point I was making was that the Government just does not act fast enough. For example, on 23rd November the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asked the Prime Minister the following question on notice: 
Did the  Premier  of New South Wales write to him on 25th June 1971 requesting special Commonwealth grants for works to relieve rural unemployment? Did he reject the request on 9th August 1971? Did the Premier make the request  a  second time on 26th August 1971? 
When did he reject this second request, and has the Premier made the request a third time on the ground that, the New South Wales wheat crop has  failed;  if so, when? 
These questions have not been answered. This gives honourable members an idea of how fast the Government works on the mat cr of rural unemployment. This problem should have been solved aud the action that has been taken now should have been taken at least 6 months ago. 
The Prime Minister states, for example, that the massive amount of money paid to the wool growers has had a tremendous effect. Certainly the amount of money that has been received by the wool growers has had an effect, but that is quite a different kettle of fish from the amount paid in deficiency payments and through the Australian Wool Commission. Every honourable member who is aware of this problem knows that under the first lien provision of the Acf, the big finance companies, the hire purchase companies, the wool brokers and the pastoral houses have first call on that money if they so desire. Of course these groups have this priority and they are getting this money. A very large proportion of this money that is supposed to be going into rural areas is not even getting into them. It is staying, for example, in the pastoral houses and the finance companies themselves. There is little question about that. If members of the Australian Country Party have not had letters from their own constituents on this subject all I can say is that (hey are blatantly out of touch with the wool producers of Australia. 

 Mr Grassby - The honourable gentleman is interjecting. Call him to order,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
Speaker. He is a humbug. 
This is a most important Bill in terms of the magnitude of finance provided to or for the States. In regard to the actual payments to or for the States on works and ho,,sing programmes the amount involved in 1969- 70 was $2.41 6m. Tn 1970-71 the amount was $2,843m. For 1971-72 the amount has been estimated at $2,93 lm. These are extremely large amounts of money. I want to speak principally with respect to certain projects such as works programmes in relation to Commonwealth-State financial agreements. One thing I do believe is that a needle or some stimulant should be given to the Government or to some of the departments for which the Government is always ranking excuses. Time and time again I have asked questions in this Parliament concerning the progress of particular projects - they may be concerned with roads, Water, power or land development - and every time 1 get the answer 'lt is under investigation'. Obviously considerable time must be spent in investigations. I would be the first to admit that. 1 would expect adequate investigations, particularly in the scientific and technical fields, to determine the proper allocation of scarce resources, but one becomes tired of the type of answer that one receives all the time, especially when one knows that analyses have been completed. I speak, in this regard, particularly of water development projects. It would seem that in most instances the Government plays politics, lt watts for the most opportune lime before advising the States, through Cabinet, on water development projects. This results in undue hardship in many areas of Australia to those people who are waiting for State or Commonwealth decisions relative to their particular problems. 
The beef roads programme has been a major project year in and vear out. This programme is a 5-yearly programme but, as has been pointed out many times in this House by myself and other honourable members, there is need for an early decision before the completion of a 5-yearly programme. It is obvious that roads must be completed. It is also obvious, from undertakings being given by the Government, that the beef roads scheme will continue. It is essential that some announcement to this effect should be made by the Government. The Government should indicate to the States what roads are to be constructed and what money will be available for those roads. If this were done it would minimise losses which could be brought about by plant being moved from one location and then having to be moved back. The same arguments apply to water conservation projects. 1 have not been able to ascertain accurately how long it had been since the Government has made a decision under the water development programme. It certainly has been a considerable time - well over 12 months. In my home State of Queensland, for example, people in the Burdekin area have been waiting since 1949 for a decision from this Government on the Burdekin Basin. Who will forget the famous election words of  Sir Arthur  Fadden, the then Leader of the Country Party, in 1949 when he said: 'We will build the Burdekin dam'? Not $1 of Commonwealth money has been spent on this project. A lot of promises have been made, there has been buck passing and the Queensland Government has been blamed, but no Commonwealth money has been made available. I refer also to the North Eton project, This area is intensively settled, agriculturally, but it is susceptible to drought, experiencing on an average one drought every 3i years, lt is ait area in which there is every justification for tho expenditure of Commonwealth money on water conservation, lt would be a sound economic project as long as the Government delays making a decision economic and financial hardship will be caused to the people there. Most of the land in the potential catchment area is frozen. No improvements can be made because one makes improvements al one's own risk and most farmers are not prepared to take that risk. The Government should make an early decision one way or another. It should not procrastinate and make excuses, lt should not say that the matter is under investigation or keep on blaming the relevant departments. In most cases the departments have forwarded reports which, frequently, are in the hands of interdepartmental committees. Those who have served on interdepartmental committees know that these committees are a most iniquitous means of stalling decisions. 
I turn now to matters associated with the Postmaster-General's Department, although I appreciate that strictly this is not a State matter. However, the States are concerned if the Commonwealth Government cannot find the time or the money necessary to increase the efficiency of this Department. In my own area, and in other areas of Australia, there is a 12 months delay in securing the provision of multi-coin telephone boxes. I am quite certain that the 2 Ministers who are present in the chamber now - the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  - would not know of this situation. Australia is a nation with vast unemployed resources, yet there is this delay in securing multi-con telephone boxes. In my own electorate there are 7 applicants for this facility. All applicants are good in the sense that the provision of this facility would actually show a profit to the Commonwealth Government. One applicant is the Returned Services League Club in Mackay, which has  1,200  active members who patronise the club exceptionally well, as anyone familiar with the club will know. That club has been told that it will be  14  months before it can get a multi-coin telephone box. This is an incredible situation. Why cannot Australian resources be used to make available this facility or ordinary public telephone boxes for that matter? This may be only a minor point but it illustrates that if the Commonwealth is seeking revenue there are avenues available to it. 
Another factor which greatly disturbs Federal and State members of Parliament concerns the closing of country post offices. lt is extremely difficult to get any information on this matter. Suddenly, out of the night, comes an order and a post office is closed, and then all hell breaks loose. Every farmer and every worker in the area concerned protests to his Federal or State member. Why cannot we get advanced information on the closing of post offices? Why cannot the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  tell Federal members that a certain post office will be closed so that, if necessary, they can organise activity to try to prevent its closure? However, that is not done, and frequently a member is overseas or elsewhere when the post office is closed. This is a type of fly by night tactic with which most honourable members, particularly those in rural areas, have to contend. I think it is wrong, because no investigation is made upon which we can argue. The decision is simply a departmental decision. 
All people who live or work in country areas know that the local post office is virtually the heart of an area. Many country post offices have served their districts for over  50  years, and served them well. Not only are they the heart of an area, they also are the social centre of an area, and to suddenly see them closed by a policy decision is a retrograde step. I hope that before this Parliament goes into recess the Country Party will side with the Opposition to stop the Postmaster-General from taking the dictatorial action of closing down country post offices. This matter may not be important to the Postmaster-General's 
Department but it is extremely important to the Australian public. If money is nol available for post office facilities, a thorough look should be had by members of the Cabinet at priorities. 
Recently a policy was announced of giving country people a higher priority with respect to the provision of telephones, but every district engineer throughout the nation regards this as a joke. It is all very well to formulate a policy but unless additional money is made available the people will be no better off. The announcement of such a policy causes heartaches for people who race into the local post offices or district telephone offices complaining that they are not being provided with telephones within a certain time. I have had to tell people that they might get it by the year  2000  if they are lucky because, in some areas, it is not possible to get an estimate under  10  years. What sort of a policy is this? It is essential that something should be done. 
I should like to say - I point out to the Minister that he was  2  minutes late in starting the debate - to the Minister and to those officers who are in attendance and who can convey this back to their respective departments that it is high time that we received progress reports in this Parliament on the projects that have been financed by the Commonwealth. We make available, say, $10Om for a project and that is the last we ever hear of it in the Parliament.  1  have no doubt that officers of the department concerned see progress reports but, as I have stated time and time again in this House to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  we are entitled to know how efficiently this money is being spent. For example, is there efficient use of finance on the Ord River project, the beef road, the brigalow area and the various irrigation and power projects throughout the southern States of Australia? We in the Parliament want to know how efficiently that money is being spent and whether mistakes have been made, so that these mistakes can be rectified in the future. I think that this is important from the point of view of a Federal Parliament which, after all, debates at length and passes a Bill, or whatever it might be. on the recommendations of the Government and that is the last we as a Parliament ever hear of it. So, it is essential that we do receive progress reports. 
I conclude by saying that there must be more co-operation with the States and more money made available with priority given to the most urgent development projects. Will the Government or the Government departments responsible, for goodness sake, put a needle or some sort of a stimulant into themselves so that we may have quicker answers to our questions? I do not want continually to be asking the Minister for National Development how the Burdekin project is going. I have been asking him for 6 years now and I am still receiving the same answer - that is under investigation. We have asked how particular road projects are going and again we are always told that they are under investigation. Tt is high time that we made a positive decision ip fairness to people in the metropolitan and country areas who are actually waiting for a decision. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Bill of 1971 is one more Bill by which an important industry in Australia will have the benefit of a stabilisation scheme. The objective of this Bill is to implement a scheme for the stabilisation of the incomes of dried vine fruit producers for a period of 5 years commencing with the 1971 crop. Honourable members will recall that this scheme was introduced after proposals were put to the industry and after the industry had voted upon these proposals. 
If the Ministers who are at the table want to have a little meeting they should have it in the back of the chamber. It is quite difficult for me to concentrate while they are talking at the table. 
I ask the Minister to withdraw that remark,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I do. 
Why don't you grow up. 
I withdraw it. If the Minister was making a speech and 3 of my colleagues were carrying on a conversation close to him, I am sure that he would take objection to it. I will let it drop at that. The point I was making is that the basic elements of this stabilisation scheme are sound. The Opposition supports the principles of stabilisation and orderly marketing. I personally have very little criticism to offer of the scheme itself. The only criticism I have to offer is that it took so long to get the machinery in action to conduct the referendum. It is possible that I could put forward arguments for the creation of a statutory authority in preference to a stabilisation scheme as such. But as this question is not under discussion tonight, it does not necessarily need to be debated now. 
One of the matters which we have to recognise about dried vine fruit production is that it always faces a precarious future in terms of production. There are adverse seasons with respect to harvesting. Production is vulnerable to hail. During the budding and growing periods in September and October the industry is also susceptible to frost and hail. The vines themselves are susceptible to disease, and during the months of February, March and April when the fruit is on the vines there are also the problems with the seasons. After the harvesting there is the drying of the fruit. So there is a long period of production and harvesting of the finished farm product, which is quite different from the position with most other commodities. The dried vine fruits industry itself is susceptible to a great degree of risk. 
I note that the prices of dried vine fruits will be varied in accordance with movements in indices of the cash costs of production. One point which I raise for consideration by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  relates to the method of the variance of these costs. One of the great problems confronting this small farm industry is the problem of the allocation of costs between dried vine fruits production and other enterprises on the farm. There may be citrus fruits, some canning varieties of fruits and other types of grapes, particularly in the dual purpose areas. There is a problem concerning the allocation of costs, and I would like to know what is to be the Government formula regarding the allocation of cash costs of production. One recognised formula is the application of price indices based on price relatives which are formulated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. I would assume that the same practice would apply in the dried vine fruits industry. 
I should like to refer to another matter in passing. Quite frequently when I go into the fruit growing areas of Victoria, New South Wales and, to a lesser extent, South Australia, the question is raised about the price of sugar. This is not so relevant to the dried vine fruits industry, but it is relevant to some vine fruits producers, particularly those producers who have a sideline production of fruit for canning. The Minister for Shipping and Transport and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  know what I mean. I refer to the operation of the sugar rebate and sugar concession system as it applies to the canning of fruit or to the export of particular processed fruits. But I should like to make this point: I think that there has to be some type of educational programme about the price of sugar introduced for fruit growers in these areas, because the favourite criticism is to take the world price of sugar and to compare it with the Australian domestic price of sugar. Anybody who knows the economics of the sugar industry is fully aware that this is a most fallacious and wrong argument, because, although the domestic price of sugar in Australia is high relative to the so-called free world parity price under which the International Sugar Agreement operates, the fact of the matter is that only about 8 million to 9 million tons of sugar are sold on the residual market. All the world's major sugar producers and importers work on agreements - bilateral agreements and special agreements such as the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement. Only the balance of production and imports are put on this market. 
As the Minister well knows, there can be violent fluctuations in the price of sugar. Only 5 years ago the price was over stgl00 a ton, and it came down to stgl2 a ton. The fruit producers in southern Australia should realise that this is not a world parity price in the accepted sense of the word because only a very small proportion of the sugar crop goes on the market. I will expand on that situation later. It is important to know this, because frequently we see in the newspapers jam producers, canning fruit producers and particularly the growers putting forward arguments and criticising the sugar industry or the Government because they say they are paying too high a price for sugar. If these persons really knew the facts they would know that they are not paying a high price, because one basic fact remains - in Australia the price of sugar is one of the lowest prices in the world. In view of the lateness of the night I do not want to say anything more on that point. 
I give notice that the Opposition will move 2 amendments at the Committee stage. These 2 amendments are similar to amendments which the Opposition has moved in relation to various other rural matters. One amendment relates to the averment, that is, the penalty clause. The other amendment relates to the time within which proceedings will commence if a person has to face a charge. From memory, a prosecution in relation to the apple and pear industry was to commence within 5 years, but this period was reduced to 3 years because the Senate compromised. The period provided in this Bill is 3 years. We will move an amendment to provide for a period of 12 months. The arguments in relation to the 2 amendments are well known to the Government. We believe that the present provisions are objectionable. I have nothing more to say on the Bill. One could debate all the technical points at some length. We on this side of the House have no serious argument against the Bill. We believe in the principles of orderly marketing and stabilisation. Our basic point is that we would like to have seen this stabilisation scheme introduced at least 2 years prior to this date. 
Friday. 3 December 1971 
I refer to clause 10 which reads:  (1.) The following amounts may be recovered by the Commonwealth as' debts due to the Commonwealth: - 
levy and provisional levy that is due and' payable; 
an amount payable by way of penalty under the last preceding section. (2.) In proceedings for the recovery of an amount referred to in the last preceding subsection, an averment or statement in the complaint, claim or declaration of the plaintiff is evidence of the matter so averred or stated. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2.). 
Clause 10 is concerned with the amount to be recovered by the Commonwealth Government as debts due to the Commonwealth. Members of the Opposition regard sub-clause (2) as most iniquitous. We have always opposed provisions" of this nature and will continue to do so. The sub-clause simply means that any person who is delegated with the responsibility under the' Act can make a statement which, in the complaint, can be taken as evidence of the matter averred. We believe that this is contrary to the rules of justice and should not be tolerated in respect of any primary industry. We recognise that a similar provision is included in most stabilisation Bills and that it relates to the collection of penalties and the recovery of debts or moneys. Members of the Opposition believe that the principle is wrong and that the words 'an averment or statement in the complaint, claim or declaration of the plaintiff , is evidence of the matter so averred or stated' are contrary to justice.  Mr Chairman,  I ask leave to move a second amendment... 
THE  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I refer now to clause 14 which reads: (1.)  A person shall not- 
fail or neglect duly to furnish a return or information that he is required under this Act or' the regulations to furnish; or 
furnish', in pursuance of this Act or the regulations, a return or information that   is false or misleading, in  a  material par ticular. 
Penalty: Two hundred dollars.  (2.)  A prosecution for an offence against this  section may- be commenced at. any time within three years after the commission of the offence.  I move: 
Omit 'three years', insert 'twelve months'. 
The Opposition has always opposed this type of provision and will continue to do so. Members of the Opposition believe that a prosecution for an offence under this provision should be commenced within 12 months and not 3 years. Previously the period was 5 years but, as 1 have suggested previously, because the Senate objected to this period the Government compromised and reduced it to 3 years. But even with respect to criminal law, proceedings are commenced within 12 months. We believe that no primary producer should have the threat of prosecution hanging over his head for. a period of up to 3 years. If an offence has been committed it is the Commonwealth's responsibility to commence proceedings without delay to prove the case or to enable the person prosecuted the opportunity to disprove it. Such action should commence within 12 months. If the Commonwealth cannot begin the prosecution within 12 months, the prosecution should be dropped. 
It is all very well to say that some producers will deliberately try to flout the law. I do not say this. I believe we should give every producer credit for being an honest person until he is proved to be otherwise. For that reason I say that the responsibility for proving a case lies with the Commonwealth and it is only right that any man charged with committing an offence should have the opportunity to prove his innocence within 12 months and not, as this clause proposes, within a maximum period of 3 years. I take the point that in most cases the Commonwealth would attempt to bring a case before the court within 12 months. On the other hand, if it is good enough to require under the criminal code that proceedings for an offence be proceeded with within 12 months, I think it is good enough for this type of proceeding to commence within that time. For that reason the Opposition is opposed in every sense of the word to these particular clauses. 
1 second the motion. There are urgent reasons why the Government should proceed with its off-shore legislation which asserts and establishes the exclusive right of the Australian Government to exercise sovereign control over the waters and resources pertaining to the seabed off the Australian coat. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, this legislation was introduced into the Parliament almost 20 months ago as a matter of urgency by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  on behalf of the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  acting, I would assume, with the full backing of the Cabinet at that time when the present Prime Minister was Minister for 
External Affairs. Since that time the Government has not found time, as it tells us, to proceed with the legislation. It is patently obvious that because of political pressures the Government is adopting a weak and incompetent attitude in refusing to proceed with this urgent legislation. Of all the nations with sea boundaries Australia is possibly the only one that has not yet clarified or declared its attitude on this position. With an international conference approaching, it is an intolerable situation that Australian delegates will have to go to this conference and sit around the table and yet Australia has still not declared an attitude on this most important matter. Other nations logically can question the competence of the Australian Government to participate in such a conference when it is apparently incapable of making a decision itself with respect to the waters surrounding this continent. 
The object of the Bill was to implement the Cabinet decision which was first announced by the Governor-General almost 2 years ago when this Parliament started, and still we have no action. 1 can only repeat the words of the Minister for National Development, acting on behalf of the present Prime Minister, as they were also repeated by the Leader of the Opposition. He said:   . . this issue should now be decided once and for all, and without delay. 
It that is not a matter of urgency, I do not know what is. We saw in this Parliament last year a vote of censure on the previous Prime Minister on this very question - a matter of great urgency. The reason given by the Government for its urgency is that until it is so decided the Commonwealth cannot either disclaim responsibility for what it has done in off-shore areas or itself take appropriate action. The Opposition believes this, and I believe that every intelligent person who understands this situation would thoroughly endorse it. Until the legal question is decided the Commonwealth is unable to take any responsibility for its actions and is unable also to take any action itself. One can only reach the conclusion that the facts are that the Government is incompetent and that it has not the political courage to do its job properly, to clarify the position and to assert and to establish its position in the way that other nations have done, particularly those operating under a federal constitution, such as Canada and the United States. They are 2 nations which have clarified their position in completely unambiguous language. 
I admit that the States have argued that they have sovereign rights in this matter, but does anybody really believe that they have sovereign rights? Prior to Federation there were no such sovereign rights given to any State by  Her  Majesty's Government, and it was not until after Federation and Australia had become an independent nation that these rights obviously were conferred on the independent nation of Australia. Therefore the States have no sovereign rights as far as off-shore legislation goes. I believe this is what the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, made clear when he said: 
At common law in Australia, as in England, the territory of the Queen's Realms ended at low water murk and did not extend to any part of the seabed beyond. 
He said further:   . . and the Queen's assertion of  sovereignty  in the territorial sea  recognised  by international law was  not  delegated to or conferred . . . 
At no stage were there any international or sovereign rights conferred on the States themselves. That is perfectly clear. The Opposition believes that the Government had rightly decided to introduce this legislation and we were going to support it to the full because we believe this is an important question and one which must be clarified without delay. I repeat again that the constitutional issue should now be decided once and for all and without delay. That is what the Government said 20 months ago, but still we have no decision. Why should this issue be finalised? The essence of the motion before the Chair is that Australia's reputation as a responsible nation is at stake. There is to be an important international conference and apparently we have no attitude at all on this matter. One can judge the attitude of the Government from the performance of the present Minister for Foreign Affairs when he was Attorney-General in trying to stop the 2 justices of the High Court from giving and explicit decision in relation to the case that was before them.  Mr Justice  Windeyer and  Sir Garfield  Barwick gave a decision or made a recommendation or suggestion - however we want to phrase it - but the point is that the Government tried to stop it. 
The second reason why action is needed is that there is confusion in this matter which is inhibiting further exploration and development of offshore resources whether they be minerals, natural gas. petroleum or any other resource. There is confusion and we cannot expect companies to enter into contracts to explore or develop resources when this uncertainty hangs over their heads. The third point I would like to make is that the States themselves are unable to control these waters. They have not the resources, the manpower or whatever else is required. In terms of the Federal powers relating to customs, immigration, disease control, defence, poaching and fishing the control of these waters is obviously a Commonwealth responsibility. Under the terms of the conference it is the Commonwealth's responsibility from the low water mark right through to the continental shelf. I will give a specific example of the way in which 1 believe that the Government is shirking its responsibilities in this matter. Only, recently there was another death in northern coastal waters caused by the deadly box jelly-fish or, as it is commonly called, the sea wasp. I believe, and I believe that most people in this Parliament hold this view, that control of these waters should be a matter for the Commonwealth Government. 
One might ask: 'What has that death to do with this matter?' It has a lot to do with it because if the Commonwealth Government was actually carrying out its responsibilities in this matter of great urgency it would have the fisheries division of the Department of Primary Industry, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and Commonwealth medical research workers carrying out research on behalf of the Austraiian people to try to find out why this jellyfish has suddenly appeared in large numbers in these northern waters. One theory for this sudden increase has  been  put forward by highly experienced fishermen of the northern waters who blame the State for not preventing the netting of coastal estuaries, creeks and rivers by thousands and thousands of amateur fishermen Why have these deadly sea wasps suddenly appeared in such numbers? 
This is a Commonwealth responsibility. I have given just one example to illustrate the urgency in this matter for something to be done. The States cannot do it. The 
States do not have the resources. The Commonwealth is doing nothing. This is an urgent problem which must be investigated. All of the resources of the Commonwealth should be brought into action. I assume that the State of Queensland is reluctant to ask the Commonwealth to do too much work in this field because, after all, this again raises the question of legal responsibility constitutionally of the Commonwealth's entry into the so-called 3-mile territorial sea limit. 
It is time that this problem was solved. I believe that the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders should be agreed to by the Government because there is an urgent need to debate this legislation and to have it passed. I would think that if ever a nation is going to be regarded as a hillbilly nation it is Australia. This is what will happen if at the time we sent our top experts in this field to the next international conference on the law of the sea we still have not taken any action. Legislation on this subject was introduced into this national Parliament 20 months ago. The Governor-General announced what the Government would do. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  acting on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is now the Prime Minister, stated in categorical terms that there was an urgent need to bring this legislation forward because, as he said, no decision could be taken with respect to particular matters arising in these areas until this legislation is passed. 
I do not know what other reasons are needed by you,  Mr Speaker,  or by the Parliament in regard to this matter. I will be most interested to hear the Government's defence on this matter because as far as I am concerned there is no valid defence whatsoever. This is an incompetent Government. It cannot make a decision on a matter on which an announcement was made by the Governor-General and about which a Cabinet decision has been made and legislation has been introduced. 
I might add by way of reinforcing my argument that this Government is competent that there are 2 related Bills now on the notice paper. One of them deals with continental shelf living resources and the other deals with the conservation and control of fishing. These Bills are relevant to this matter. Is this the reason why the Minister or the Leader of the House is not going to proceed with these 2 important Bills also? All this adds to the complete confusion in regard to this problem. The quicker it is solved the better it will be for Australia and certainly in the international view Australia will at least look responsible. At present Australia is completely irresponsible in regard to this matter. This Government is incompetent. It is a weak Government. The quicker it faces up to its responsibility the better it will be for this country. 
The principal objective of these 2 Bills is to make financial assistance available, in the first Instance to South Australia and, in the second instance, to New South Wales, for 3 co-operative canneries. The canneries in South Australia are Jon Preserving Cooperative Limited and Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Limited and in New South Wales it is Leeton Co-operative Cannery Limited.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 wish to move amendments to the motions for the second reading. What is the procedure? Do I move them together or what? 
1 move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to include a Schedule of the Agreement between the State of New South Wales and the Commonwealth with conditions relating to the approval by the Parliament and provisions relating to the amounts payable to the State, the rate of interest, and repayment conditions by the State'. 
This amendment is in similar terms to the one we moved to the motion for the second reading of the South Australia Grant (Fruit Canneries) Bill which dealt with the Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd and the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd. On this occasion the amendment relates to the Bill which deals with the Laeton Cooperative Cannery Ltd. The reasons for moving this amendment are the same as those for moving the other amendment. A sum of money is to be made available by the Commonwealth to the State of New South Wales to enable that State to make advances to the Leeton Cannery under terms and conditions agreed to between the Cannery and the State. The principal objective of the amendment is to ascertain the terms and conditions under which the Commonwealth is to make money available to the State of New South Wales. We want to know whether the money is to be made available by way of a grant or a loan, what rate of interest is to be charged and so on. We have gone over the arguments before. 
Yes, we want *o know the term. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  when he was replying to the debate on the South Australia Grant (Fruit Canneries) Bill, informed us that it is the intention of himself and, I would assume, of the Government that the funds to be made available by the Commonwealth will be made available essentially by way of a loan at a rate of interest which is not necessarily a commercial rate of interest. Of course, this means that it is a low rate of interest. We have no objection whatsoever to that because it is the policy of the Australian Labor Party to make available for urgent needs or for needs of worth long term loans at low rates of interest. This is fundamental to Labor's policy, and we have no objection to what the Minister or the Government proposes in this regard. But that does not alter the fact that when public moneys are made available by the Commonwealth to anyone there should be in writing somewhere the terms and conditions upon which those moneys are made available. 
I can understand the difficulty of the Minister and the Government regarding the short term problems facing these canneries When terms and conditions are written into a schedule to an agreement there is some degree of rigidity or inflexibility which could cause embarrassment to a State, to the Commonwealth, to a cannery, to a grower or to whoever it might be. There is an argument for some degree of flexibility in agreements. However, this does not mean that terms and conditions should not be written somewhere so that the Parliament can understand the position I should have thought the correct thing to do would have been for the Minister to state in his second reading speech that this was in fact the intent of the Government. It would seem that in fact, if the conditions applying at this cannery deteriorate, this money which is being made available by the Commonwealth could become a grant, although that is not the short term intent. But if economic conditions deteriorate, as they easily could with respect to this particular cannery, to the degree that in the short and the long term drastic reconstruction of the industry as well as of the cannery would have to take place, this type of moratorium would develop into the writing off of a debt. The question would then become: Would the Commonwealth ask the New South Wales Government, in this case, to pay back this sum of money? Only Cabinet could answer the question at that po'nt of time. Now that the Minister has explained in some detail the intention of the Government as to flexibility and the taking into account of contingencies in the short and the long term, while I still maintain on behalf of the Opposition that this intention should be written into the second reading speech, or preferably into the Bill itself, we will not call for a division. 
The Opposition supports the recommendation of the Public Works Committee. The need for the proposed construction of stage 5 extensions of the Stokes Hill power station at Darwin has been mentioned, if not debated, several times in this House. The Opposition also notes the qualifications with respect to pollution and 1 would emphasise that these are matters of importance. It is hoped that the actual design of the power house extensions in respect of pollution control will also be taken into account by Commonwealth, State and other authorities involved in the construction of similar power houses which cause pollution of the air and of the atmosphere in general. 
The Opposition is pleased to be a party to this recommendation. There is in Australia a need for an up-to-date brucella testing laboratory. I note that the proposal is Ibr the construction of the first stage of a permanent building complex tor the National Biological Standards Laboratory. As honourable members well know, brucellosis is a disease which is common in Australia and very common in most parts of Australia which run cattle. The disease is caused by the genus brucella. The 3 main types that are known - brucella abortus, brucella melitensis and brucella suis - affect cattle, goats, pigs and humans. The one which is most common, brucella abortus, or contagious abortion in animals, has caused tremendous losses in Australia over the years, lt is quite right that the national Government should endorse any campaign which will eradicate brucella abortus from the Australian beef and dairy herds as well as the other genes of brucella in pigs, goats and in other animals. 
One also must support the proposal because this disease is contagious to human beings. I cun speak as one who has contracted brucella melitensis or multi-fever as it is often called. I can assure honourable members that it is a most unpleasant illness. People can die from this disease. Some years ago a lady who was well-known to Canberra people had the misfortune actually to contract brucellosis as a result, we believe, of drinking unpasteurised milk, and she died, lt is a disease which is of importance to Australia. It is a disease which should be eradicated. Undulant fever is another term for this disease in humans. Meat workers, particularly those who work in the larger abattoirs in the country and who deal with cattle that may have this disease, may be affected. The usual diagnosis is by the glutenation test which is a common test and it has been well developed in America and Australia. The most common treatment of this disease is by the use of strain 19 vaccine. There have been other treatments developed. This is analogous to a process such as immunisation against small pox. The brucella abortus is apparently the most common of the genus brucella in Australia and it spreads rapidly throughout the herds. It is also important that great care be taken in the selection of colonies for growth and new seed cultures because these must be selected continuously and must be viable. I think one of the things that would have been told to the Committee is that a tremendous waste of money could occur if the culture itself were not viable because the animals would be vaccinated with a dead vaccine. This could cause a loss of money. I assume that one of the major jobs of this laboratory will be to make certain that the organisms of, say, strain 19 vaccine are viable at all times. Any cattleman well knows that this is essential if strain 19 is to be effective against brucella abortus. It is a living virus and because of this, it must be handled with extreme care. Although I have not read the report I assume that it follows exactly the same practices as applies in the United States where there are buffer zones of 1, 2 or 3 walls - whatever it might be - around the buildings in order that the virus does not get out of those walls because, as I said, the virus affects human beings as well as cattle and other livestock. The Opposition support this proposal as being a positive and a good move for the benefit of the Australian cattle industry and the health of the Australian people in general. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Dawson moving a motion to establish a select committee to inquire into and  report  upon the area management prosposals of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, the constant closing of country post offices and similar policies adversely affecting the customers and s'.alT of the Australian Post Office. 
All members of Parliament who represent rural and semi-rural electorates, as well as some of those representing city electorates, are well aware of the attitude of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and his Department to the very serious problems caused by the wholesale closing of country post offices throughout Australia. The Opposition believes that the Federal Parliament must act to curb the dictatorial powers exercised by the PostmasterGeneral and his Department in their decisions to close down these country post offices. There is an urgent need to establish a select committee of the Parliament to inquire into these matters which are, of course, of great concern to all members of the Australian Labor Party representing rural electorates, as they are to all members of the Country Party and the Liberal Party, although I would assume that the last 2 mentioned parties will do very little about it. Because of the . PostmasterGeneral's dictatorial attitude, the Federal Government now is being depicted in country areas as a government which has little sympathy for the needs of country people. 
Country post offices are an integral part of the welfare of all rural areas; they have provided essential services to rural communities for almost as long as those communities have existed. In the last 3 years the Government, through the PostmasterGenera], has closed down 700 .post offices throughout Australia and. the great majority of these were in rural electorates. And while this happens the Government seems to turn a blind eye to the powers of the Postmaster-General's Department. The disturbing feature of these closures is that in all cases there are no real reasons for them and no warnings are given to the people concerned. They have little chance of appealing to the Postmaster-General and their Federal member to take this matter 
Up  wilh the Department. Usually notification is given and protests are made, but by then it is too late. 
In addition, another decision has caused serious problems with respect to the compulsory transfer of staff from country areas to the provincial cities, a move which is contrary to the principles of decentralisation. This re-organisation is, in effect, in pursuance of a policy of centralisation in capital and provincial cities. And this is another reason why there is a need for a committee of inquiry. No committee of inquiry has been established to investigate the operations of the Post Office for more than 50 years and a competent independent investigation by the Parliament of the entire .structure of the Post Office is badly needed. 
The Opposition has another reason for moving this motion. There are mounting delays in rural areas in the provision of telephone services. There was an announcement made in this Parliament some time ago concerning an acceleration in the provision of telephone facilities to country people within a certain radius of the exchanges. But all we have had are mounting delays. Divisional engineers throughout Australia will  tell  us  that the provisionof these  facilities  is at the bottom ofthepriority  list becauseapparentlythere  are  not sufficient funds available. In  my  electorate,  a  typical country electorate,  the  delay in  the  provision  of  multi-coin facilities which  are  essential  for  people  in  rural areas wishing  to make  trunk-line calls is  at  least 12 months. And if the PostmasterGeneral does not believe me, I can give him details of the applications which have been made  by  people in my electorate and who have been told that there is at least  a  7-month delay in the provision of even multi-coin facilities. This is proof of  a  deterioration in the operational conditions in the Post Office. There is a need for  an  investigation. The Postmaster-General has informed the Government and the public that he will retire shortly and I believe in all sincerity that he should intervene in this matter before then. If he does not it will seem that he has lost interest  in  the welfare of the Australian people. I believe he should resign. 
I am speaking to the suspension of standing Orders. 
1 cannot speak on behalf of the Australian Council of Trade Unions but I can assure the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Australian Labor Party has not in any way changed its opposition to the relaxation or the partial relaxation of the merino ram embargo. The views of the Opposition are exactly as they were before and they will stay that way until the Government presents evidence in this Parliament, allows it to be debated and a vote taken both in this House and in the Senate to support the relaxation of the ban. The last time that a vote was taken in the Parliament was in the Senate and the Senate rejected the Government's recommendations. As the Government was not bound by the decision of the Senate, its action being taken by regulation and not by an Act of Parliament or an amendment to an Act, the Government contemptuously ignored the decision of the Senate and despite repeated efforts by the Opposition the Government refused to have the matter debated and a vote taken. I would remind the Parliament that the Government is not consistent in this matter. We recall that when the reserve price scheme for wool was being mooted approximately 6 or 7 years ago - and this was a controversial issue just as the merino embargo is a controversial issue and it has been since 1929  - the Government did not act as it has now acted. It put this controversial issue to the wool growers of Australia to make a decision. The same preamble was applicable in that the Australian Wool Industry Conference had in fact recommended in favour of a reserve price scheme. I want to make it quite clear that the Opposition completely supports a reserve price scheme. A referendum was held but unfortunately, because of tremendous confusion throughout the industry, caused by intensive lobbying and misunderstanding, the wool growers voted against the scheme. This was, I believe, perhaps the biggest blow to the wool growers in financial terms, in organisation, etc., for a very long time. But we cannot look back. We must look forward. 
If this Government is to be consistent over this controversial issue of the merino embargo it should allow a referendum to be held, but it has not allowed a referendum. The Opposition has not changed its view. As 1 have already said, I am unable to speak on behalf of the ACTU. It is entirely a matter for the ACTU to make up its own mind on this issue. However the ALP is still opposed to any relaxation of the embargo on the export of merino rams until, I repeat, there is a debate in this Parliament and until a vote is taken. In that debate the Government should put forward its evidence, scientific, economic and otherwise, to enable all members of this House to debate it, to weigh it up and to vote upon it. This, I believe, is only fair. It is of no use the Government saying the Opposition can raise it. We cannot raise it. We can raise it as a matter of urgency; we can raise it by way of a notice of motion. But as the Government well knows we cannot bring the matter to a vote unless the Government wants a vote on it. We know from experience that we have never been able to get a vote on matters of this kind. 
It is not a question of having the vote on the statement. We want a full scale debate on the issue. We have been told tonight that we can have only a limited number of speakers in this debate. The fact is that if the Government had allowed a full scale debate on this matter we would have been ready for it, as is the Government. I am quite certain that there are no members on the Government side other than the Minister ready to debate this question at length tonight. Therefore until we can have a full scale debate and until the views of the large number of small producers throughout 
Australia are taken into account the Opposition has no alternative to questioning the Government and opposing the Minister's statement. It is our job to do so. 
It is all very well to say that the Government is putting forward a case on behalf of the stud breeders. I will not decry the stud breeders in any way. What the Minister has said about the parlous financial position of stud breeders is entirely correct. There is no question of that. But this is irrelevant in terms of the overall question of the wool industry itself. 
Another point I want to make is that we do not know what the last vote taken by the Australian Wool Industry Conference was. I have no doubt that I could find out what the vote was if I wanted to do so. However, at the moment I do not know what the vote was. But certainly the first vote on the AWIC decision was by no means unanimous. In fact, there was considerable opposition from very powerful wool organisations. I notice that the Minister for Primary Industry, who is at the table, gave no indication of what the composition of the vote of the AWIC was at this time.I can only assume that the result was the same as last time. I could be wrong and it could have been unanimous but I do not think it was. I do not think it was unanimous judging by the number of letters that members of the Opposition are still getting from organisations and growers and particularly, I might say, from many growers in electorates around the area represented by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt). 
Last week. 
 If I say last week I mean last week. There is no need for the honourable member to be smart because he does not know. This is typical of his ignorance in this matter. 
The honourable member said that he is on a trip. I have known for 6 years that the honourable member has been on a trip. 
I do not doubt that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the House come to order. 
 I have often wondered what his capabilities were, and the Minister for Primary Industry now has told us. 
This is a serious problem. We believe that the Government has taken blatant action in not allowing this Parliament to debate a controversial issue. We have said this many times in the House and we will continue to say it until the Minister allows this Parliament to debate the issue. When I say that the Minister should allow the Parliament to debate it I mean that this matter should be put to a vote in this House and in the Senate. The Opposition will oppose this relaxation of the merino export embargo. We will do so on behalf of thousands of wool growers and particularly the small wool growers who have completely given this Government away. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fox)  adjourned. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
1 do not think that anybody will argue with the tremendous benefits which have accrued to those fortunate areas in the country with the advent of television. I can only  endorse  the remarks made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and try to emphasise to the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  that the various problems associated with delays should bc solved because there are still many areas in Australia that deserve, qualify for and should get television as soon as possible. In regard to the 38 stations of which the Postmaster-General has given details tonight, 23 of them are in Queensland. I am sure that my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  would agree that that is a very good proportion. On the other hand there is a great need for television in the areas of Western Australia to which the honourable member for Kalgoorlie referred. While I am on my feet I would like to pay a tribute to the work force of engineers and other staff of the Postmaster-General's Department who have worked continuously, one might say, over the years on the installation of television stations in the remote areas of Australia. These men are a dedicated band. I have met many of them in the north. I think they deserve commendation. 1 know that these men, particularly the engineers working in remote areas, are often frustrated by the lack of services and the delays in providing equipment from overseas. It is not the work force that is the problem, but the delays in providing equipment. 
Let me refer to the target completion dates mentioned by the PostmasterGeneral. 1 assume that the list of television facilities he mentioned is not the complete list. 1 want to refer specifically to Queensland and to those areas in central Queensland that J would call the missing link. AH of the areas mentioned by the PostmasterGeneral follow railway lines, such as the Townsville-Mount Isa line, the ToowoombaCharlevilleCunnamulla line with links to Goondiwindi, Dirranbandi and St George, and the Rockhampton-Longreach line. I want to refer to the area north of Clermont, which is one of the stations mentioned. The area between Clermont and Charters Towers is what one might call a missing link. A lot of people - small cattle producers, big cattle producers and coal miners - live in this area. It is an area which is growing with tremendous rapidity. 
I want to ask the Postmaster-General when the latest settlement in the Goonyella area can expect to get a booster station or translator service. There is a town growing rapidly there. I believe that there is a need to give television to the people in these areas as quickly as possible. I would like to ask the Postmaster-General about the standard of television services in the remote areas. As he well knows, many of the existing stations are not satisfactory. There are still bugs in them. I hope that some consideration will be given to ironing out these bugs. 
The Postmaster-General will recall that on several occasions 1 have written to him about the Proserpine area. There seems to be some technical problem in that area which is causing very poor reception. 1 think that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board carried out a survey there approximately 12 months ago to try to iron out the technicalities that were causing the rather poor reception, particularly in places like Shute Harbour, Airlie Beach, Bloomsbury and Proserpine. The question is one not only of continuous construction to provide these facilities for people in the remoter areas of Australia but also of improving the existing facilities. I hope that consideration is given in the works programme to some , of these missing links and particularly lo the area, between Clermont and Charters Towers, in Area 3 of the Brigalow and in the Belyando-Suttor area. 1 hope that the programme will really concentrate on the new area of Goonyella and on the problems with the existing television stations. 
by leaveThis project has been one which 1 suppose can best be described as a most unfortunate one. It has a relatively long history. As the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has stated, after the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works had made the decision to accept the proposal put forward to it originally there was in effect some strong criticism by people living in Darwin. They had every justification for making that criticism because not enough attention was given to the actual treatment and disposal of the effluent. Subsequently, as we know, as the Minister said, the matter was referred to in the Parliament, it was sent back to the Committee and the Committee after lengthy evidence rejected the proposal. It is obvious that something has to be done. It is essential to provide a plant which will satisfactorily treat and dispose of the sewage from the central zone. This is of the utmost importance particularly in a Federal Territory where it is essential thai every detail in relation to pollution control and with respect to sewage is given priority. I am pleased to say that the Opposition supports the decision of the Government to give this project the priority which it deserves to enable the construction of a first class treatment and disposal plant. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken by his Department to increase the .amount of Commonwealth purchases in Queensland to overcome the serious imbalance which exists between Queensland and the other populous States. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What are the principal components of expenditure by his Department in the various States each year. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What amount of Commonwealth purchases were made by his Department in each State in each of the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the State of Queensland is discriminated against by his Department in annual purchases by the Commonwealth. 
If not, what is the reason for the wide differences in purchases by the Commonwealth from Queensland as compared with New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What amounts of tinned beef were imported into Australia from (a) Argentina, (b) Paraguay and (c) other countries during the last 12 months. 
Why is tinned beef being imported into Australia. 
What guarantee have Australian cattlemen that this tinned beef is completely free of exotic viruses such as foot and mouth disease. 
Having listened carefully to the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme),  it is very clear that he has absolutely no regard and no respect for the people who live in country areas. I can assume that from his sumptuous mansion in Brisbane he makes these cold, callous, hard decisions or he signs the memoranda put forward by officers of his Department regarding the closing down of country post offices. In defending the closure of these post offices the PostmasterGeneral asked why he, as a responsible Minister, should have the responsibility of bearing the cost of a loss in a country area where only 30 or 40 people are involved. Those 30 or 40 people involved may produce hundreds of thousands  of  dollars in income from sheep, cattle or wheat. They might form only a small community, but does the Postmaster-General's Department take this other factor into account? Surely whether a post office is to be closed is not to be determined on some strict, narrow accountancy basis, which is a field in which the Minister is trained, or simply by the number of stamps one sells across the counter, the income received, or the cost of a non-official post office. 
Surely the criterion is the service that that post office gives to the community. Surely consideration must be given to the intangible benefits and not only to costs. If this criterion which the Minister has gone to great pains tonight to elaborate were adopted in other fields we would be closing down most roads and railways in Australia. This attitude is indicative of the narrow, shallow thinking of the Postmaster-General. I wonder how many post offices in the electorate of Petrie, the PostmasterGeneral's electorate, have been closed down. It is very relevant that last year I put on notice a question asking for a list of all the post offices closed down in every rural and semi-rural electorate in Australia in the last 3 years. It is very strange that in Queensland all semi-rural and rural electorates were listed except one, and that was the Postmaster-General's own electorate. On inquiry I found that not one post office was closed down in his electorate. 
The Minister says that it is not a semi-rural electorate, but the list he gave me contains the electorate of the Australian Capital Territory, which embraces Canberra. Could anyone who knows Petrie say that it is more citified than Canberra? Of course they could not. 
We are talking about facts. The Government - this is the crux of the problem - has failed completely to give this Parliament any financial, economic or social arguments as to why these post offices should be closed down. The Postmaster-General's whole argument is based on the premise that he has efficient public servants advising him, and whatever they say he agrees with. It does not matter what any of us who represent the people - members of the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party or the Country Party - think. What does the Liberal Party or the Country Party really care in this matter? We saw a most shameful exhibition a few minutes ago when the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  rose on a matter of public importance and the PostmasterGeneral refused to rise to support him. But more relevant is the fact that the Assistant 
Minister assisting the Postmaster-General  (Mr Robinson),  in whose electorate in New South Wales more post offices have been closed down than in almost any other rural electorate in Australia, never rose. That is the Country Party for you. The honourable member for Macarthur mentioned the closing down of a post office at Tarampa in the electorate of Fisher. 
Let members of the Country Party say in this Parliament what they believe instead of running down the Postmaster-General, as we all know they do, in their own electorate. They run down the Government in their own electorate, but when they get in this Parliament what do they do? They refuse to rise and support the honourable member for Macarthur on this question. Too often in this Parliament do we see what I describe as hypocritical actions. Members of the Country Party run down the Government and the Minister in their own electorates, but when they come to the Parliament and a matter is raised they sit there like dumb rabbits. 1 will be the first to admit - I am quite certain that other members of the Opposition also will admit it - that there are legitimate cases for closing down some small post offices. We do not argue with this, but what we do argue with is this surreptitious, stealth in the night approach. Not ona Federal member is given any warning that a post office is to be closed down virtually until the decision has been taken. We want to know in advance what post offices are to be closed down so that we al least have the right to see the people concerned, appoint a delegation to see the Minister and see the justification before it is closed down, not after it is closed down. Surely that is what this Parliament has the right to achieve. The policy of the Postmaster-General's Department is one of cold, hard and ruthless bureaucracy, and it is getting worse, not better. The Postmaster-General himself admitted that 1.000 country post offices have been closed down in the last 4 years. I have the list here. One can only marvel at the dumbness of the Country Party in this matter when one looks at the list. For example. 15 post offices have been closed down in Richmond, the electorate of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony);  22 have been closed down in the electorate of Cowper; 23 have been closed down in Corangamite, which has Liberal representation; and 34 have been closed down in Indi, which is represented by a Country Party Minister. 
I have not seen the honourable member for Macarthur in the House since he raised this matter so 1 wonder how fair dinkum he is in raising it. But one thing he has done has been to expose this Government for grandstanding. We saw in the last session the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  move a motion about the excise on wine. When he was challenged to vote on it, he refused twice to vote, and he has been in trouble ever since in his electorate. The Opposition will now test the Government, and particularly the Country Party, on whether it is prepared to vote on this issue. 1 move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a motton being moved that the closure of small post offices be discontinued until a select parliamentary committee inquiries into and reports upon the issue. 
This is exactly what a lot of members of the Country Party have been saying for the last  2i  months throughout their own electorates and exactly what the honourable member for Macarthur is saying now. It is almost word for word with his statement of the matter of public importance. We will now see how genuine the Government, and particularly the Country Party, is. If these people are genuine they will support this motion to suspend Standing Orders to allow a motion that the closure of country post offices be discontinued to be debated. Is this not what they are saying? Is this not what they want? It this not what some of them have spoken about over the Australian Broadcasting Commission and in other places? But when it comes to a vote, the people of Australia in rural electorates will see how these people really vote. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make specific amendments to the Dairy Produce Export Control Act and to clarify provisions of the Act regarding the investment behaviour of the Australian Dairy Produce Board. In other words, it seeks to clarify the existing investment provisions as they apply to the Board's capacity and ability to invest in projects outside Australia. The amendments are concerned principally with the stand taken by the Dairy Produce Board in the early 1960s with respect to the establishment of joint venture re-combining plants in South East Asia. These plants were, of course, of a commercial nature. This type of venture is to be commended because the Board has shown initiative in trying to diversify its markets for a difficult product, a product which had all the earmarks in recent years of being oversupplied. 
I will deal with that in a moment. Even though the product may be oversupplied in some markets, the Board should be congratulated for the initiative it took almost 11 years ago to diversify into markets other than the traditional market in the United Kingdom, particularly when at that point of time and since then there had been warnings given of the inevitable joining of the European Economic Community by Great Britain. This is an example of an industry which has tried to get out and sell its products. As the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said in his second reading speech, it was a far-sighted action which we in this Parliament should recognise. We should also take action to facilitate steps by the Australian Dairy Produce Board to explore, develop and maintain markets overseas, particularly in those areas which we recognise as our best market potential - areas such as in Asia. The problem as I see it here is that there has been some restriction placed on the limits of financing applicable to the Board in that it has to rely principally on funds accredited to the account from contracts with Great Britain made after the last war. Because the Board is adopting an aggressive programme of selling it will need more finance, especially more readily available finance. Therefore, this amendment will allow moneys within the Australian Dairy Produce Board's account to be utilised for the exploration and development of new markets. I can assure the House that the Opposition supports the amendment because it believes that boards such as this which are prepared to get out and sell should be given every opportunity and encouragement to do so. The Board will be able to use moneys in its account other than, of course, moneys borrowed to acquire equity capital. 
The point made by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  is well taken. The dairying industry has been in serious trouble over the years due to an oversupply, principally of butter, and it was for this reason that the Board made efforts to diversify and to find new markets in developing areas. But what are the reasons for the increased prices of dairy products at the present time, especially butter? They are not hard to find. It is a question of supply and demand. There is a shortage of dairy products caused by a reduction in the production of milk in Western European countries plus, of course, reduced exports of dairy products from New Zealand and Australia. There has been a significant decline in milk production in the EEC as well as a significant decline in butter production. In fact, EEC stocks of butter have fallen from 330,000 tons in mid-1970 to 62,000 tons towards the middle of 197 J. I understand that although there are signs of stimulation of dairy production the stocks are still at relatively low levels. This, together with an increase in consumption in the world due to increasing population rather than increasing per capita consumption, has meant that there must be only one result - an increase in the price of butter. We have seen a remarkable increase from mid-1970 to the end of 1971 in the price of Australian butter from f stg3 10 per ton to in excess of stg500 per lon at the moment. This is the effect or' supply and demand. We also know that just as quickly as production can go down, over a time it can go up, although not as quickly as could a cash crop. It takes time to breed a calf and get it into production. 
We must look also at the consumption of dairy products in Australia. It is pleasing to see that the aggregate consumption of dairy products in Australia is increasing. O'ne would expect this with an increase in population. However, there has been and still is a decline in butter consumption. Butter production is relatively stagnant, but the per capita consumption of butter in Australia is decreasing. Ten years ago the consumption of butter was 25 lb a head. Today it is 20 lb a head. On the other hand, there is apparently a significant increase in the per capita consumption of cheese in Australia. In the last 10 years this has increased from 6 lb a head to 8 ib  a  head. That may not seem a lot, but in terms of aggregate consumption it is. In terms of per capita consumption it represents an increase of 33i per cent. I think that the per capita consumption of cheese will increase significantly in the future. There seems to be a change in the trend of consumption habits. 
The per capita consumption of condensed milk is fairly stagnant, but because of the increase in population there has been an increase in the total consumption. This can be expected to continue to increase. In dried milk products, such as powdered full cream milk and milk for infants and invalids, we see a significant increase not only in total consumption but also in per capita consumption. The increase in the per capita consumption is almost SO per cent. This shows the changing trend in the consumption of dairy products in Australia. But what about the future, which, after all, is the basis for the amendment? The part of the amending Bill which I regard as most important is sub-clause (ii) of clause 3 (c), which reads:  (if) to expand existing markets or to secure new markets for dairy produce. 
This is germane to the entire Bill. Unless we can expand existing markets or secure new markets for dairy produce inevitably the dairy industry will face a very serious future when Britain joins the Common Market. I do not think that anybody would argue positively that we will retain a significant share of the European Economic Community market. The enlarged EEC will include Denmark and Ireland. As I see it, over a time Australia will lose the British market for butter and cheese. What are the alternative markets? T suppose one could argue that the EEC might lose markets in Asia and South America and we may have a chance of getting into those markets. But dr&gt; not let us forget that one of the most aggressive exporters is on our doorstep T refer to New Zealand. That country will be well aware of those markets which the EEC might lose in the event of concentrating on self sufficiency itself. 
I could be wrong but I think that there is a good future for Australian cheese. With good promotion and aggressive selling techniques we have an excellent chance of increasing our exports of cheese, particularly to Japan and other Asian countries. The prospects for increased butter exports to Asia must be looked at very carefully. Most of Asia consists of low income areas. We know from experience that the low income areas are not the areas that consume significant amounts of butter. It is the rich industrial areas that are the main consumers of butter By their integrated agricultural and industrial policies they are the same countries in which secondary industry is subsidising self-sufficiency under the common agricultural policy of the EEC, for example, as an integral part of their agricultural policies. 
The Australian Dairy Produce Board has recognised the problem. Its exports of anhydrous milk fats and skim milk have been of benefit, not only as a commercial venture but also in setting up valuable contacts between Australia and the Asian countries. The joint venture milk recombining plants in Singapore, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia and Cambodia have established an Australian mark in those areas. The Board is to be congratulated because by the establishment of these joint venture industries the Australian name is known. Australia is supplying the great majority, or certainly a significant proportion, of the raw materials for these recombining plants. Even though we have no equity in the Singapore plant we are supplying a significant proportion of the raw materials. I believe that there will be more joint ventures of this kind. Provided they are profitable in the longer term - not necessarily from the short term, infant industry approach aspect - they should be supported. 
It must be admitted that the profitability of establishing plants in these low income  countries  is not as great as that of selling butter and cheese products to the richer industrial countries like the United Kingdom. But let us look at some of the figures. In 1970-71 exports of skim milk powder and anhydrous milk fat to the Asian countries for recombining totalled $31,000 and $8,100 respectively, compared with $27,500 and $6,800 in 1969-70. The point I am making is that although we hope to encourage this type of activity we must recognise, and the industry must recognise, that this is not as profitable as exporting butter to the United Kingdom. For example, in 1970-71 the average f.o.b. value of exports of skim milk powder and anhydrous milk fat to South East Asian countries was $178 a ton and $474 a ton respectively, compared with $204 a ton and $528 a ton to other markets. There is a significant difference between them. We must accept this. At least we have the markets for the time being. At least we know that there is a potential. 1 am one who believes that there is a very great potential for milk products, protein products, in Asia. I believe also that once Australia can normalise its relationships with China there will be excellent opportunities for Australia to send raw materials to China. 
Yes, protein products. When 1 was in China I found that in the densely populated areas such as Cantin, Shanghai and Peking milk products were a scarce commodity. The people wanted protein. As one can appreciate, in a country like China there is a definite limit on livestock production, particularly of the dairy type. I believe that over a period of time, as the standard of living of the people there increases, there will be a significant market for protein products. The cold facts are that the dairy farmers have to be told the truth about the future. It is no good the Government or any other organisation painting a rosy picture or otherwise unless it relates to the facts. When we see a very large proportion of our products going to the United Kingdom, with the possibility that this market will be lost, we must accept the seriousness of the position. 1 do not take the gloomy approach that a lot of people take, of saying that we have no alternative but to reduce our production significantly. I do not believe in this at all. Because of the dynamic changes in the international trading policies of other countries in regard to agricultural products. Australian rural industries - in this case the dairy industry - must adopt or continue to adopt aggressive selling policies. We know that in Asia, right on our doorstep, there is a future for protein products like dairy products. This is where we have to be aggressive. As regards agriculture generally, the complacent and traditional selling methods by which established markets are taken for granted or foreign buyers are expected to come to Australia to purchase their requirements must be radically altered. I refer particularly to the wool industry. At least the dairy industry is getting out and selling. 
World trade, as we know, is dynamically changing. At present it is divided into powerful economic trading blocs dominated by the European Economic Community, 
Japan, the United States of America and the communist group. I think the slogan Get out and sell' which underlines the basic premise of marketing policies for secondary industry has to be applied more and more to our primary industries. We cannot sit down and wait for the buyers to come to Australia. Nor can we sit down and rely on traditional markets as we have done over the years. It is clear that those countries which have the greatest potential to pay for Australia's primary products are also the richest industrial nations. As I have said before, provided the natural resources are there all these rich industrial nations have a policy of self sufficiency with a barrier of high tariffs on imports of primary products. Australia has to recognise this factor and we will have to be more aggressive and get out into the low income countries and assist them to establish plank as the Australian Dairy Produce Board is doing in joint venture operations, and then over a period develop and maintain the markets. 
Australia's rural industries must not adopt a defeatist attitude. While we recognise the problems facing the EEC in regard to Australia's position we cannot afford to just give that market away. We have to use everything in our power - politics or whatever it may be- to try to retain the biggest share that is possible in our traditional markets, and we have to recognise the potential for developing markets in Japan and Asia. To give specific examples I refer to the Australian sugar and beef industries. They have not lost any opportunity in the post-war years to take every possible advantage of international trading agreements or arrangements to get out and sell their products. They are backed by powerful selling agencies, whether we like them or not, such as the Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Vesteys, Swift Aust. Co. Pty Ltd and Thomas Borthwick and Sons (Australasia) Ltd. We must accept the fact that they are highly efficient and have top men trained in their particular specialist fields. 
I refer to these 2 industries because today they are viable and one of the reasons for their viability is that they have sound organisation. The sugar industry has a marriage of government regulations contolling the production and export of sugar with high level marketing agencies. The 
Wheat Board has recognised that it must got out and sell, ft has recognised the cutthroat tactics used in the sale of grain in the international market. These industries must get out and sell. The Dairy Produce Board is adopting constructive selling policies and other industries must follow suit. At the other end of the extreme we have the tragic example of the wool industry, which is complacent in the extreme, archaic in its marketing methods, and a tragedy in terms of marketing compared with the other more dynamic industries. The wool industry waits for the buyers to come to this country to buy the product. It refuses to accept dynamic changes in international marketing. It has refused to accept dynamic changes in terms of competition with synthetics until it has almost become too late and it may have to start almost from scratch to build up the sound promotion of wool. I have given these simple examples of the 2 extremes. 
The Government itself must abandon its complacent attitude with respect to some industries, particularly dairying in general and the fruit industry, because these industries must find new markets. They must try to maintain some of their existing markets otherwise in the future they will be in serious trouble. It is of no use to say that they will not be in trouble. It is of no use to procrastinate. They must have markets. We must get out and sell. 
In this respect I believe that there is an urgent need for a drastic overhaul of the trade commissioner service as it applies to Australian agricultural exports. I am not in any way condemning the calibre of the trade commissioners. I am simply saying that these are specialised fields of selling a particular product whether it be cheese, a type of meat or a particular grade of sugar. We must have experts in these fields who will get out and sell the product. This is why I believe there is a need for a drastic overhaul of the trade commissioner service with a view to giving it more teeth by making available more experts in the field of agricultural marketing whether they be technicians or marketing specialists, just as secondary industry itself would do in getting out and selling its product. The great primary industries must do this. I do not think that at any other time in Australia's history have some industries had to face such a crucial situation. Their entire future depends upon their ability to sell in new markets. To adopt a defeatist attitude is not the way to solve their problems. When one travels in other countries, particularly Asian countries, one must accept the fact that there is this market potential. It is a question of being able to organise the sale of our products and to take advantage of this potential. 
I do not want to say anything more on this subject except that the Opposition supports the initiative that the Australian Dairy Produce Board has taken in the last 11 years. I might add that even in respect of the current high price of butter the Board, in my opinion, has done the right thing. It has attempted to fulfil its obligations to the South East Asian recombining plants. The Board did not say: 'Leave them alone for the time being and let us get into the more lucrative markets'. It has attempted to keep good faith in Asia. I feel that this is something that ought to be recognised. Here we have a primary industry board which has taken the initiative to diversify and to have joint ventures particularly with low income countries to promote Australian products and to develop a sound fundamental liaison between Australia and Asian countries. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many (a) Federal Country Party Ministers and Members, (b) Federal Liberal Party Ministers and Members and (c) Federal Australian Labor Party Members have been interviewed, or quoted extensively, on the ABC 'Country Hour' programme in the last (i) three, (ii) six and (iii) twelve months. 
What were the names of the Ministers and Members concerned. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission's 'Country Hour' programme is now widely regarded as a forum in which Country Party propaganda, policies and excuses are aired with increasing frequency. 
What policy does the ABC follow to ensure an acceptable balance between major political parties in regard to the 'Country Hour'. 
 I support the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and other honourable members on this side of the House who have spoken in this debate. I think the comments of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  regarding the honourable member for Lalor were in poor taste. I was not able to understand the analogy about pie stalls, but I can assure the House that if the honourable member for Isaacs had one-hundredth of the grasp of this subject as the honourable member for Lalor has, he would know something about tariffs'. The Customs Tariff Bill provides for amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. Contained in a number of schedules is the virtual substance of the Act and the amendments before the House. 
One point I want to make - and I have made it many times in this Parliament - is the great difficulty I have, and I am certain everyone else has, in really getting one's teeth into the problem before the House, f have the gravest of suspicions that nobody here, including members of the Government, has the detail or the data to enable him to pass judgments on the actual items set out in the amendments in this Bill. Let me take at random, for example, the duty of $550 per ton on polyethylene glycols having an average molecular weight of 1,500 or less. I would say that this is double Dutch to everybody in the House bar a few who happen to have had some training in engineering, science or applied science. I cannot imagine members of the Cabinet gathering round the table and discussing polyethy lene having, a density at 23 C of less man 0.941 gramme per millimetre and arriving, at the grave decision of $630 per ton or 90 per cent of SVD. This is the sort of issue which is dfficult to understand yet we in the Parliament have to debate it intelligently. 
Everybody who has spoken before me has made a speech in general terms on tariffs. Members have discussed various tariffs, the incidence of tariff and its effect on the economy. This is the kind of speech that we hear every time this debate takes place. I do not believe that we can be criticised for this. Unless one has an interest in a particular component or item it is extremely difficult to debate a subject or subjects intelligently from the reports which are made available to us. I have no doubt that if one wants certain information it can be made available in more detail by the Tariff Board itself. But this is a problem. It is a problem whose existence has to be admitted. 
I do not know how the Cabinet arrives at or affirms these decisions. I cannot imagine any body of twelve or fourteen men getting around a table and deliberating on some of these items. The important point is that some items, no matter how complex they may seem in terms of names, can represent thousands, if not millions, of dollars a year in subsidy. But they are glossed over in debates like this. It does not matter whether we are for or against a proposal or whether an increase or decrease in tariff is recommended. We accept the recommendation unless we have a lobby such as we had in the case of cherry processing. We took a great interest in cherry processing and the Government changed its mind because we were able to follow the logical argument that if a particular type of cherry processing were stopped, it would have an effect on the employment, community and business leaders that would be felt right through the local economy. But unless someone is really lobbying for a proposal we just have to accept that proposal and make generalisations. I will be no exception to that because if an honourable member were to talk at some length on one component in the schedule he might well have spared himself the effort for all the knowledge or understanding honourable members would gain from his speech. 
As I have said, the overall problem in debates such as this is to secure sufficient data in respect of the amendments we are considering. Indeed, it is accepted practice to have a general debate on the tariff itself. But certain basic principles are involved. As I see it, the most unsatisfactory part of Tariff Board decisions is the question of to what degree the .Board ever looks at the ramifications of its decisions. I draw the analogy of a railway line. There may be a long distance line which is highly efficient in terms .of the total and is a sound revenue earning asset. But a section of the line may be highly .inefficient. Again, it is like the chain processes which make up a major industry with all its different components. -For example, the motor car industry has servicing industries and all sorts of supplementary and complementary industries. Let us say that the Tariff Board passes judgment on one of those components, or alternatively passes judgment generally on the overall industry. To what degree does the Tariff Board take into account its decision on the component industries, or the servicing industries, which manufacture ball bearings or something of the kind? Does the Tariff Board consider that they have any general application to the overall problem? There are in fact direct problems. 
We have talked tonight about the shirt industry. Most speakers confined their remarks to the particular problem of shirts and to the direct effects. They talked about the manufacture of shirts and the effect that tariff policy has on the employment in that industry. I go further than that and raise the question of the raw materials which are used to make the shirts. These raw materials include cellulose, acrylics, polyester, nylon and raw cotton. The indirect effects of tariff decisions also must be considered because a decision on cotton shirts not only affects the employment of processors, spinners and people who work in the factories but also the employment of people who are directly concerned with the cotton industry itself. I talk here not only of the farmer but also of the community which forms the nucleus of cotton production. Therefore, such a decision spreads throughout the industry. It may also extend to the fertiliser industry and so forth. This is what worries me about the Tariff Board making decisions on established industries. The Tariff Board, in making a decision, should look at the ancillary effects. It needs to consider the direct effects and the indirect effects. I believe that such a consideration is most important. 
We often hear arguments put forward in regard to -industries manufacturing washing machines, refrigerators or motor cars. Surely the most important criteria from an established industry's point of view is what will be the effect of that tariff. The Australian Labor Party is quite adamant in its view that if a Tariff Board decision causes people to be put out of employment without any alternative the tariff should stay until alternatives are made available. It is all right to say, as academic economists often point out, that we can transfer our resources to a low cost industry defined by the Tariff Board. But let them name those low cost industries. The great difference between academic economists and the politician or administrator is that the economists pan .always .argue 'Yes, mobility of resources; mobility of land, labour and capital'. But when it comes to moving the factors of production the task is not so easy. 
Another matter I want to raise is this: To what degree does the Tariff Board take into account international policies? It is quite obvious that international policies in trade today are becoming more and more important with respect to domestic decisions in Australia. Speakers on this side of the House have emphasised, for example, the effect of cheap goods coming into Australia. They have pointed out what the effects would be. I have always been a subscriber to having multilateral trade as much as possible rather than bilateral trade. An exception would be in a case where 2 countries such as New Zealand and Australia can enter into some type of mutual agreement. But I believe that problems arise with tariffs when we have bilateral arrangements. 
Let me give a specific example of which I have had experience in the last few months. I refer to the subject of trade between China and Australia. We all would like to see expanded trade with China. But the type of products we can sell to China is limited wheat, wool and semi-finished mineral products. But the representatives of China made it quite clear to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and myself when we were there that they would expect Australia to play its part and to take some of China's products. What products can China export under a bilateral arrangement? I bought back from China a pair of pure leather shoes which cost 92c Australian. These are beautiful handmade leather shoes. I also brought back with me excellent shirts, some of which were made of silk, some from cotton and some from acrylics. These shirts cost 20c to 25c. One can buy silk ties for 6c or 7c each. This is the type of commodity that China can supply to us, providing it is a 2-way agreement. Should we allow these types of products into Australia? That is the basic problem. The general consumer will say: 'Yes, let us have these products'. But this then creates a major problem with respect to employment and it spreads right through our processing industries and our primary industries. If any Government adopted a laissez faire approach in many instances and followed these principles, it should be made very clear that instead of having 13 million people in Australia we would probably have 2 million. What manufacturing industries today can get by without a tariff? 
The honourable member for Wakefield is always talking about this, but let him get up in the House and name the important industries that can get by without a tariff. 
The honourable member might as well say soft drinks, too. I am talking about major industries and capital goods industries. I cannot stress too much that the multilateral system of trade is the one that we have to try to evolve in international trading. In this instance we can sell our wheat and our wool to China. At the same time we can have protectionism for our secondary industries, providing we have a multilateral system of trading with other countries like America and Japan. The honourable member for Wakefield used Sweden as an example. He said that there are only a small number of motor car assembly plants in Sweden and therefore there is a lower cost of production curve. He also made the point that 75 per cent of Swedish cars are exported. But I do not know whether he has looked at the origin of exports. The great majority of these exports are made in the vicinity, to the Common Market countries and countries of the European Free Trade Association. 
But not as many as to Europe. Some come to Australia, as honourable members are aware. I do not think that that is an answer. If the honourable member likes to argue that way I will agree with him. Obviously, if we had only one motor car industry in Australia and we did not change the model every year - in other words, we simply manufactured a motor car we would reduce the cost of production of motor cars by probably 40 per cent, 50 per cent or 60 per cent over a time. But I understand that that is the type of production which members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party do not like. They like free enterprise. They like to have a hundred and one varieties of models with as much fragmentation as possible. The honourable member for Wakefield is arguing about centralisation and having only one industry. We will admit you will get a lower cost of production that way. But this seems to be arguing against the principles which honourable members on the other side of the House stand for. 
It is quite true that a greater volume of throughput in relation to fixed costs reduces the average cost curve. We know this. But is that what the Government wants? Does it want to stop the fragmentation of the motor car industry and have one industry or one assembly plant? If the Government wants that it should say so. But I am quite certain that it will not receive much support from this side of the House. We believe in efficient large scale units and in creating as much employment as we can throughout Australia. Diversification is essential for the balanced growth of this nation. As I see it. one of the basic problems of tariff protection is that, with respect to established industries, certain criteria have been laid down. It is in the established industries that the problems arise. Once the Government starts monkeying around reducing tariffs, unless it has alternatives for the resources that will Se displaced it is going to have serious regional and political problems. That is a fact of life. It is no good talking in airy fairy terms, as the academics do, about changing our resources and moving our resources from high cost to low cost industries unless one can say what the alternatives are and how mobilisation can be done. Let us remember this: A lot of fixed costs are involved not only in the commodity or industry concerned but in the community generally. Hospitals, roads, schools, the infrastructure and whole communities could be involved. The Australian Labor Party does not stand for a policy of simply reducing drastically a subsidy or a tariff that will indirectly smash the infrastructure of a community unless there is some viable and accepted alternative. 
The second problem is with respect to new industries. This is where I believe the Tariff Board or the machinery behind the Tariff Board is inadequate. It does not give any attention to the establishment of infant industries. It is not until industry, or a particular component of industry, is on its feet that it really comes before the notice of the Tariff Board. One of the great functions of tariffs, as was seen from the Brigden report after the depression days, is to help Australian infant industries to grow and develop, providing they are using resources efficiently within the criteria laid down by government policy. 
One of the emotional arguments put forward is to compare the levels of tariff protection and then to appeal to the consumer. This is the great argument put forward by the opponents of subsidies to primary industry. Every time we have a debate on wheat, wool, dairying or eggs and other rural industries the opponents get up and talk about the 'taxpayers' expense'. But what about the tariffs? Has anybody worked out what is the tariff subsidy in this document, the Customs Tariff Bill alone? 1 would not have a clue, and I do not think anybody else has a clue. But if someone said to me 'It is $ 1,000m', that could be right. I do not know. But certainly it would be a very high figure. 
Of course, the critics will say: 'Why manufacture refrigerators in Australia? 
There is probably a 40 per cent duty on them. Why not import refrigerators? Why manufacture any television sets in Australia? Why not import them? Why manufacture any motor cars in Australia? As somebody said today, the tariff component there is probably anything from $600 to $900 a motor car. I could go through the list. It is completely fallacious to compare the wage standards in Australia with the wage standards in China, Hong Kong or anywhere else. As far as Australia is concerned, the wage standard is fixed to give the wage earner and his family a good or a reasonable living. It is on that criterion that we have to base our tariff policies. So it is completely fallacious simply to argue that because we can import a shirt from China or Hong Kong for 20c we must scrap all our cotton and processing industries in Australia to import cheap shirts. If we adopt such a laissez faire practice, instead of having 13 million people in Australia we will finish up having about 2 million, and most of them will be based on primary industries such as wool, wheat and a few secondary industries, and ancilliary tertiary industries. I would like to have spoken tonight about tertiary industries because 'the tertiary industries employ more people than either the secondary or the primary industries. It is the tertiary industries that are dependent to a great degree on sensible and sound tariff policy. We can see that, with the slump in some of the cities today. That is caused by a lag in demand due, to a large degree, to the slump in primary industry that has occurred in the last 2 years. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. It has been reported widely in the Press that, if an invitation is received from China, the Prime Minister will willingly send a Minister. In view of the economic and political importance of China to Australia, particularly with respect to trade, why is the Prime Minister adopting the negative attitude of waiting for an invitation which may never arrive? Does he not think that if it was good enough for President Nixon to ask to go to China, he as the Prime 
Minister of Australia might take the same initiative and inform Chou En-lai that he, as the Prime Minister, would also like to come to China to discuss problems of the future between China and Australia? Finally, if the Prime Minister does not want to take the initiative by asking Chou En-lai and if he does not get an invitation, would he- 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence on a very important point. When Assistant Ministers make a public statement, is this Government policy or is it not? 
I ask the Prime Minister. 

 Mr McMAHON (Lowe- Prime Minister) Normally, Assistant Ministers would not be making statements announcing any type of new Government policy. What you would expect of them is that they would be explaining their own departmental policy, or if a policy has been announced in another portfolio, after consultation with the Minister involved they could of course make a statement; it would be not introducing new policy but an explanation of existing policy. 
Before the sitting was suspended we were considering certain important amendments to the Customs Tariff. We heard various arguments with respect to many of the items included in the Schedules. One of the principal objectives of this Bill is to make changes agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments which will extend the list of commodities to which the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement applies. I want to deal principally with the Free Trade Agreement as it affects various items in the Schedules. 
We are now in what I believe to be the sixth year of the operation of this Agreement. Trade has expanded since the Agreement first became law. In 1970-71 Australia exported to New Zealand S233m worth of goods and New Zealand exported to Australia 95m worth of goods. There were substantial increases in 1971-72. Therefore, we can see that the rate of trade is increasing. New Zealand takes 22 per cent of Australia's manufactured exports and. looking at the other side of the picture. Australia takes 46 per cent of New Zealand's exports. So one can argue convincingly that Australia is in a fairly good position in relation to New Zealand under the Free Trade Agreement. In the future one can expect that this trade will increase because the trade preferences between the United Kingdom and New Zealand can be expected to be phased out as Britain joins the European Economic Community. This will have, or should have, a marked effect, in increasing trade between Australia and New Zealand. This will be again to Australia's advantage. 
One could think that New Zealand can be expected to lift import licensing within the next 5 years. Under, I think. Article 33 (7.). which is concerned with the gradual phasing of commodities into a free trade or common agreement I understand that the position regarding about 180 major commodities is reasonably satisfactory. New Zealand has secured a sound footing in Australia. Exports from that country make up 75 per cent of our market for paper pulp. Also, the percentage of the Australian market for paper products can be increased to 75 per cent. So New Zealand does rely fairly heavily on Australia as the market for her forest products. 
One would think, on an examination of the commodities mentioned in the Schedules that there would be a permanent imbalance in trade between Australia and New Zealand in Australia's favour. This would be because Australia is more developed in a manufacturing sense than is New Zealand. But the basic question I would like to ask the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is: To what degree has there been an evaluation of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement? This question is germane to a lot of the  arguments on tariff as they effect other countries. Here we have a model which we can study. 
If honourable members wish, I could start from scratch - from the 1933 agreement - but I shall start from the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement itself, and study the expansion of trade and the relaxation of tariffs. What effect has this had on conditions in Australia and New Zealand in terms of employment, the allocation of resources and of the general viability of the economic progress of both nations? I do not think that any evaluation has been made along those lines. Most of the evaluation has been confined to isolated commodities. It is essential in a multi-purpose arrangement that one look at the interdependency of commodities within the context of the economy itself. 
More items have been included in the list of commodities to which the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement applies. We read in the latest list items such as tents, sails, hoses, rakes, automatic petrol dispensing nozzles and automatic vacuum pumps for milking machines. In fact, when one inquires into this subject, one finds that the complete list is very large in print anyhow. Just what it means in terms of the value of the tariff or the relaxation of the tariff is a different matter. That is something which I would like to find out. 
I would like to know just what it has meant in terms of the relaxation of the effective rate of tariff translated into monetary values. Also, I would like to ask the Minister a question which is relevant to what has been said by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  during this debate. What has happened to rationalisation proposals with respect to the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd? If my memory serves me correctly, Ford was to establish a multi-million-dollar plant in New Zealand to manufacture automatic transmissions and chassis and to export those products to Australia duty free. Australia would then assemble light cars and export them duty free to New Zealand. I understand that there have been some problems with respect to the setting up of this establishment. But this is a sort of model which one could study profitably. 
The other matter which one must look at also is  the  decision of General Motors Holden's Pty Ltd in respect of Frigidaire refrigerators. The decision is to move, I think  1  am right in saying, the plant from Dandenong to New Zealand, manufacture refrigerators in New Zealand and export them duty free to Australia. I would like to know what effect this would have on other manufacturers in Australia and what effect it would have on employment here. Such a move might be all right in terms of increasing the profit of Ford or General Motors. But will the Australian consumer pay a lower price for his motor car or refrigerator? What effect will this have on the employment of the people who made the transmissions and chassis or refrigerators in Australia? 
--- No, that is what the honourable member said. I can only state also that we want to know these details of just what effects the decisions of major companies, and in many cases major monopolies, have on the economy of Australia as well as on the particular industry concerned. 
It is quite clear that there has to be an intelligent policy with respect to tariff. Where a deliberate action of a government by varying a tariff creates hardship in the form of unemployment of people or resources owned by those people, there has to be a constructive and not destructive policy to compensate those people who, through no fault of their own but because of Government policy, find themselves out of a job or discover that they have to move their families, sell their houses and assets and settle in some other place. This is something in respect of which the Opposition is at variance with the Government. It is something in respect of which the Opposition is at variance with the honourable member for Wakefield who, I believe, accepts the academic argument that one can move resources- --he believes in the mobility of resources - one can reduce a tariff and one can move resources from one industry to another or move from one area to another. We do not accept this argument unless it is demonstrated in black and white. One does not throw people onto the labour marked on the strength of an academic argument that they can be used in some other form of low-cost industry. These people have to be given the opportunity either to obtain other jobs or to undergo some form of retraining. This is where a decision made by a government is quite different from a decision made on the basis of textbook economics in regard to mobility of resources. It is quite a different proposition. 
I represent the biggest sugar-growing electorate in Australia. The sugar industry in my electorate is the major industry - it is an efficient industry. As long as I am in this Parliament 1 will fight to make certain that nothing harms the sugar industry, the employment generated in that industry, the infrastructure of towns located in sugar districts and all of the ancillary capital investment in those areas just as my colleagues on this side of the chamber will fight to ensure that the clothing factories, the motor car industry and the textile industry will remain viable and efficient in terms of the resources they use. 
This Bill is a machinery provision for the repayment by the Commonwealth, which is in fact the guarantor under the parent legislation, of moneys loaned by the Reserve Bank of Australia to the Australian Wheat Board in respect of advance payments. Although the Bill itself is only an amending piece of legislation it is nevertheless very important because it concerns the whole principle of the production and sale of Australian wheat and the very relevant factor of the determination of the quantity of wheat production, such as the quotas to be applied to the various States. All of those matters are of relevance to the central theme of this Bill. 
Section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act requires loans of this type to be repaid within 12 months. As these loans cannot be repaid within that time period the Government has a responsibility to make provision for the Australian Wheat Board to repay them, lt does so by making a sum of money available to the Wheat Board at 5i per cent interest. The industry's ability to repay this money depends principally on its ability to sell its wheat overseas. It does, of course, sell some of its wheat in Australia, but the economic or financial viability of the Australian wheat industry is dependent directly on the volume of Australian wheat exports in relation to the level of demand overseas. That, of course, is the fundamental principle of demand and supply. 
The ability to repay this loan is relevant to the outlook for wheat in Australia, which in turn depends on the level of stocks and the selling performance of the wheat industry in relation to the 1971-72 deliveries. What is the current position? The Australian Wheat Board sold a record quantity of 390 million bushels last season. Fortuitously or otherwise, the replacement of the market in the People's Republic of China by the market in the United Arab Republic has resulted in the latter country taking approximately 20 per cent of Australia's wheat export. The United Kingdom and Japan together account for about 28 per cent of this figure. The final result after a season of record sales was a carry over of approximately 125 million bushels into this crop year. That figure is decidedly below the position in the last 3 years in terms of carry over stocks. This was due to many factors. First, we did not have a very good season in Australia in terras of total wheat production. I think our total production was in the vicinity of 280 million bushels. Droughts in the Middle East had a significant influence on the demand for Australian wheat. There was a shipping strike on the coast of the United States of America. There were higher sales of f.a.q. wheat, particularly in the early months of 1971. All of those factors together with record sales left the relatively small Darn over of 125 million bushels. By 'relatively small' I mean in comparison to the position in the last 3 years. What will be the position this crop year in terms of production and in terms of the possible performance of the Wheat Board in selling its product overseas? Good sales should be made to the United Arab Republic, Japan, South America and Saudi Arabia. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the possible sale of wheat this year on the export market and I had mentioned the fact that there arc good sales to be achieved in the United Arab Republic, South America, Japan, Saudi Arabia and Russia and there could possibly be further sales of our wheat in Middle East countries such as Iran and Iraq. In the United Arab Republic in 1970-71 we sold 1,250,000 tons of wheat and in 1971-72 we sold 1,750,000 tons of wheat. At present one might say that we have a 3-year contract starting from July 1972 for the supply of 1,000.000 tons of wheat per annum, so at least we have that assured sale. 
I think it is fairly clear from the indicators that this year we will not achieve the same level of sales that were achieved last year because of a number of factors such as greater supply from America and Canada and also because we will not have the same variables that operated in our favour last year such as the shipping strike off the west coast of the United States. Let us have a look at this because export sales are of vital importance to the ability of the Wheat Board to repay this loan which is the subject of this Bill. At the start of this season we have carryover stocks amounting to 125 million bushels. Wheat production for 1971-72 will be approximately 310 million bushels of which 35 million will stay on the farms for seeding and other uses which gives an estimated 275 million bushels to the Wheat Board for disposal. Of that 275 million bushels approximately 60 million bushels will stay in the domestic market for home consumption, leaving 215 million bushels plus the 125 million bushels of carryover stocks. We will have about 340 million bushels to sell on the export market. Nobody knows, of course, what will be the total sales in terms of money or in volume of wheat but the best estimates suggest that we will finish up with a carryover of less than 100 million bushels at the end of the year. This means that if our sales are even better than the estimated 260 million bushels we could finish up with well under 100 million bushels, lt could be 80 million bushels or it may be less. Who knows? One thing is certain and that is that we will have relatively low stocks of wheat at the end of the year. 
We have seen an increase in quotas this year to a total of 407 million bushels although it must be stressed that the Federal authorities have no direct say in the establishment of quotas in Australia. Indirectly, of course, they have this power through (he 2 variables of the first advance of $1.10 and the total liability approved by the Government - or by this Parliament. If the industry wants the $1.10 it in effect sets the upper quota ceiling. This is in fact what is happening. I personally believe that the quota could with safety be substantially increased above the 407 million bushels. I appreciate the conservativeness of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  but in view of the possibility of our having very low stocks at the end of the year, estimated at perhaps 80 million bushels, I see no reason why there could not be a significant increase above the 407 million bushels that has already been agreed to. 
One of the problems facing the wheat industry and the Wheat Board is the quality of wheat. I think that tonight we will hear more from other honourable members about the situation with regard to the quality of the varieties of wheat that we produce. There is no doubt that there is an increasing emphasis on the need to produce those varieties of wheat which are required for the milling and bakery industries. This is governed by the actual price to be received by each individual producer. In other words, it is simply the relationship of demand and supply. 
One question about which we are hearing more and more is whether the criticism of the f.a.q. system is valid or not. I think the answer is yes and no. It is valid in some instances and in other instances it can be defended. I believe that it is widely accepted that the term 'f.a.q.' is fairly meaningless. We have heard the term 'f.a.q.' bandied around Australia for many years. It is meaningless because in actual fact there are approximately 12 grades of export wheat within 4 basic classifications and these are the grades which we sell overseas. 
A further question to be determined is whether we should increase our production of the hard varieties of wheat. This question has a lot of relevance to growers in Queensland, northern New South Wales, in some parts of Western Australia and also to growers who are interested in maintaining the proportion of soft wheats to the higher protein wheats. When one looks at this we must consider 2 facts. On the one hand, most of the world stocks of wheat are hard wheats but on the other hand our best customers want to buy the medium and soft varieties of wheat. These countries include China, Egypt, Russia and Japan. So we have to be very careful in generalising whether we should increase our production of the hard wheats relative to our production of soft wheats. It is quite obvious that if we did swing over more to the production of high protein wheat we could get a lower average return for wheat in Australia at this time. The basic factor with respect to quality is that high protein wheat can be grown only in certain areas of Australia. The production of high protein wheat is limited by the soil type, the climate and the genetic make-up of the various species which grow in our environment. We have to be very careful in determining whether we should increase our production of hard wheats. 
A matter which is of great importance in a debate like this is the quota system itself. We have heard all sorts of criticism of wheat quotas. I have already made one myself. I believe that when we look at alt the facts the aggregate quota should have been significantly greater than the 407 million bushels already agreed upon because of the relatively low stocks which it is estimated we will have at the end of this year. Although it can be argued that federally the Commonwealth has no direct interest in farm quotas nevertheless indirectly farm quotas have raised some important national problems because the economic problems of the family farm enterprise in Australian agriculture can be expected to be given greater political priority now that farm quotas have spread to the wheat industry on virtually a permanent basis. As Australia's 2 main export agricultural industries, sugar and wheat, have accepted the need to regulate production by farm peaks or quotas, the Government must pay full heed to the financial hardship being experienced by the traditional small farm as a result of ever increasing costs. The family-owned farm has been the backbone of Australian agriculture throughout its development, and it is. as honourable members know, the nucleus of continued viability in the country towns, the sugar and wheat towns, of Australia. 
Unless constructive policies are implemented by the Government to counter the forces of inflation, the traditional small family farm, that is the farm that is governed by a fixed quota on wheat, sugar or whatever is produced, will eventually disappear. This is particularly so under the system of farm peaks. What I am saying is common sense. If a farmer has a rigid quota and he cannot increase production above that quota, he is at the mercy of the cost-price squeeze unless he can get higher prices for his commodities. 
The need to control sugar production has been proven beyond any doubt. There can be no criticism of the need for sugar quotas. They are the most effective counter to fluctuating levels of world production and the consequential effect on world prices. But when we speak of quotas we must recognise that despite the recognised efficiency of the small farm there is a limit to the ability of the small traditional farmer to reduce average costs. He cannot increase production because he has a quota. Therefore he either has to get higher prices for his commodities or has to reduce costs. I repeat that there is a limit to his ability to reduce costs. If a small farmer, irrespective of how efficient he might be is caught up in the grip of this problem of increasing costs relative to stable production, the only variable on his side would be to receive increasing prices for his commodity. So, put bluntly, the only real counter against continually increasing costs is higher prices on either world or domestic markets. With wheat there is a home market of 60 million bushels, and the guaranteed home consumption and export prices under the stabilisation scheme can at least be controlled as a counter to increasing costs by giving producers higher prices as costs of production or the movement of cash costs increase. I believe that this provision must be written into any quota system. 
If government policy is to put a rigid peak or a rigid quota on a farmer, particularly a smaller farmer, he must always be protected against rising costs. If the farmer is not protected he has to sell out or go bankrupt because, irrespective of how efficient he is, his net income must be reduced progressively over a period of time unless prices are increased. This protection is essential for all farmers. T believe that unless the forces of inflation are controlled the wheat industry, in which we might say that the quota plan is now accepted as a permanent structure, will always have to press the government of the day to protect the small traditional farmers in particular. 
Although the Federal Government has no direct power in relation to farm quotas I believe that at all times it should make the States completely aware of the traditional small farm problem, because this is developing into one of the great problems of Australian agriculture. As far as honourable members on this side of the House and 1 are concerned, the traditional family farmer who is efficient in the use of his resources is entitled to full protection against the forces of inflation. 
This is one further example of the Government's incapacity to exercise effective control over Australian assets, particularly with respect to -the growing inroads of control by foreign interests. The Australian Capital Territory Companies (Uranium Mining Companies) 
Ordinance was brought into force in December 1970. It arose from action taken by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  with respect to the Government's policy of ensuring that the development of uranium deposits at Nabarlek remained in the hands of Australian companies for the benefit of Australian shareholders and Australia generally. As a result of the action taken by the former Prime Minister, the Ordinance was implemented in December 1970. 
Under that Ordinance clear and specific directions were given to the AttorneyGeneral in the event of foreign ownership exceeding the limit of 15 per cent of the issued share capital. In that event the Attorney-General could have refused to allow registration of the excess shares over the basic limit of 15 per cent. Alternatively, he could have had the Ordinance changed to increase the basic limit from 15 per cent to something like 21 per cent, which is the shareholding that has now been discovered. Again, the Government could have changed the Ordinance by a compromise - and this is in fact what the Governmen has done; it has compromised with these foreign companies. It has allowed excess unregistered shares to be registered on a temporary basis, the argument being that as these companies will not be able to buy any more shares, over a time the proportion of shareholding will be reduced to 15 per cent when foreign shareholders sell to Australian companies, and that when this happens the Ordinance as originally contemplated by the right honourable member for Higgins would come into real effect. This is at least as it should be. 
It is quite clear that uranium is now becoming a major mineral in terms of export income  for  this nation. In May 1967 restrictions were placed on the export of uranium, principally to conserve known deposits which at that time were exceedingly small. Since then Queensland Mines Ltd has discovered uranium at Westmoreland, and this was followed by the discovery ot uranium at Nabarlek. The Peko-Wallsend Ltd and EZ Industries Ltd have discovered uranium at Ranger and, Noranda Australia Ltd has control of the uranium deposits at Jim Jim in the Northern Territory. It is significant that Noranda is the same company which now has considerable share interests in Queensland Mines uranium deposits at Nabarlek. Pancontinental Mining 
Ltd has also made a strike between Nabarlek and Ranger, and it has signed a joint venture with the giant oil firm of Getty Oil. So, within a space of, say, 4 years Australia has emerged as a major potential exporter of uranium ore. 
This whole matter highlights the urgent need for the adoption of positive policies concerning the control of our assets by foreign interests. We have seen some remarkable estimates made of the reserves at Nabarlek. The estimate of reserves began at 55,000 tons, then it dropped to, I think, 8,900 tons, and now it has risen to 10,500 tons. All this has had a very serious effect on the Australian stock market and on the company concerned. There is a need for an overhaul of banking policy and of foreign exchange controls as they relate to Australian investment overseas. I want to illustrate it in this way: We now see an absurd situation in which the rate of capital inflow into Australia is increasing. At the present time it is approximately $ 1,550m annually, yet the rate of capital outflow from Australia, although increasing, is at remarkably miserable levels. This year it is running at around $60m. The Government's policy of deliberately bottle-necking the flow of foreign capital into Australia has of course allowed the Government to argue that the economy is in a strong and stable position. The Government always uses this argument to say that its balance of payments are, in fact, satisfactory and that the chronic deficit on current account is being balanced progressively by the increasing rate of capital inflow into Australia. This means that there is progressively a growing increase in the control of Australian assets by foreign countries. There are other examples of this in the mining field. There is the case of Nabarlek, or the associated company Queensland Mines Ltd. There are the discoveries of uranium by Pancontinental in the Jim Jim field in the East Alligator Creek area. In today's newspapers, there is the example of inroads which have been made into Ansett Transport Industries Ltd by Thomas Nation.wide Transport Ltd, and  Sir Reginald  Ansett has raised the question of the extent of foreign capital which is contained in this particular holding. This situation affects Australian transport and Australian television. 
I repeat that this Government's foreign exchange policies are archaic and that it is deliberately encouraging the rate of foreign control of Australian resources. How many members of this Parliament realise that large Australian institutions are stopped from investing on overseas markets in companies operating in Australia? I believe that this is one of the basic flaws in our foreign exchange policy. For example, Australian institutions such as the Australian Mutual Provident Society should be able to invest on the stock markets at Wall Street or at Throgmorton Street in foreign companies operating in Australia because this is the way in which Australian institutions can gain a greater share for Australia in foreign companies operating in Australia. However, they are unable to do so because of regulations which have been in force in the post war years in Australia. I believe that the Government should be encouraging Australian institutions to invest in foreign companies operating in Australia. Mount Isa Mines Ltd is an example of this. No Australian institution can invest in the present company of Mount Isa Mines Ltd on foreign stock markets. It could be that they want to invest in the American Smelter and Refining Co. However, they cannot do so on a foreign stock exchange. They are forced to buy shares on the domestic market, and this is something which must be altered because if we are to achieve a greater share for Australia of the control of our assets, we must allow a two-way flow of capital instead of the one-way flow which now operates. 
Exactly the same argument applies to our increasing volume of foreign reserves. Foreign reserves are used principally for settling our debts. They are accumulated year in and year out. They are basically under the control of the Reserve Bank and principally are invested in low interest returns in foreign countries. However, I believe it would be far better if the Government utilised those reserves either directly, to obtain a greater share of Aus.ralian assets held by foreign companies by purchasing securities on overseas stock markets or, alternatively, to allow Australian institutions to invest overseas in foreign companies operating in Australia. 
Why should Australian institutions have to pay very much higher prices for Australian scrip at times of relative scarcity when they could buy into that same company by investing in New York or in London? Because of the foreign exchange controls, they are not able to do so. Economists throughout the nation are now referring to the immobility of our growing reserves of foreign currency. 
There are a couple of questions which one could ask with respect to this ordinance. One which comes to mind is this: For how long will the Government allow temporary ownership in excess of 15 per cent by foreign interests? No mention is made of this. The argument put forward is that over a time this will go back to 15 per cent because it is a one-way traffic, as shares cannot be sold to foreign interests, they can be sold only to Australian interests. Of course, there is always the problem of defining what is an Australian interest. However, basically, the principal argument put forward is that, because of the large numbers of unregistered shares between the time the original ordinance was implemented and the present time, it was difficult to ascertain the overall percentage in relation to the total number of shares in Queensland Mines Ltd and Kathleen Investments Aust. Ltd. There is a definite need for an overhaul of Government policy with respect to foreign exchange in regard to Australian institutional investment overseas and, at the same time, there is a definite need for more positive guide lines to be set down relating to this Government's future policy on the control of Australian assets. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister or to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that bona fide Australian financial institutions are prevented from buying shares on the world stock markets in the parent companies of raining interests which own and control an increasing share of Australian assets? As this would be a positive way of enabling Australian institutions to buy back some of the farm that has fallen under foreign control, will the Government consider relaxing or reviewing the foreign exchange controls in Order to achieve this objective, keeping in mind the very big difference between the inflow of foreign capital, which is approximately SI, 500m and the miserable outflow of about $60m? Does the Prime Minister not agree that this would be a positive way of securing a greater Australian equity? 
Without doubt this is one of the shallowest statements that I have ever heard from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It has been made simply for the purpose of delivering an attack on the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We have even heard once again coming into this question the familiar Country Party ploy of the Communist bogy. I can assure the Minister for Primary Industry that if he goes around Australia today he will be wasting his time trying to raise the Communist bogy again. The people of Australia, including the primary producers, have seen through it and have had enough of this Government's use of this device. Anybody who needed any proof of who is represented by the Minister for Primary Industry has it now. He is interested in the major stud breeders of Australia. He is not interested in the small wool grower, the bona fide traditional family man who is growing wool. Not on your life. He is interested in the major stud breeders of Australia, the people who no doubt are providing party funds for the Country Party. I intend to move an amendment to this motion. To the Minister's motion That this House supports the partial relaxation of the embargo on the export of merino rams as recommended by the Australian Wool Industry Conference' I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: if a majority of wool growers affected decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo'. 
In other words, the Opposition is prepared to support the partial relaxation of the embargo on the export of merino rams as recommended by the Australian Wool Industry Conference if the majority of wool growers affected decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. I shall refresh the Minister's memory a little abou.1 the history of this matter and discuss some of the points that he omitted to mention. In 1950  Sir Ian  Clunies Ross,  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, authorised an investigation of scientific and economic effects of the embargo. In 1951, he recommended that the embargo be lifted or partially lifted. This recommendation was placed before the Australian Agricultural Council, but  Sir John  McEwen, who was leader of the Australian Country Party at that time, would have absolutely nothing to do with it. He refused to accept the recommendation in any circumstances and for 10 years it was buried. There was no mention of it during that time. 
The next positive move came when wool prices started to decline and stud breeders' incomes also started to decline. Pressure was then put on the Government to relax or to relax partially the embargo so that the stud breeders might receive a share of the lucrative market which until then had been denied to them. In November 1968 the Australian Wool Industry Conference decided by 37 votes to 16  -  not by any absolute majority or by unanimous decision - partially to relax the embargo. If this Government, as the Minister for Primary Industry has implied, believed that the embargo was wrongly imposed in the first instance, why did the Minister for Trade  (Mr Anthony),  who was Minister for Primary Industry at that time, wait for 5 months before bringing the matter before the Parliament? If he subscribed to the view that the embargo was wrongly put on, why should he wait 5 months before raising the matter in this place? When a removal of the embargo was suggested we witnessed opposition throughout Australia from wool growers, industry organisations and even from State governments. 
It is not nonsense. No-one in this place talks such nonsense as the honourable member for Angas. We all know what his capabilities are on this score. I propose to cite some remarks made by  Mr Blacker, President  of the United Western Lands Lessees Association of New South Wales. A document from that Association states: 
. SO per cent of the wool grown in New South Wales and a substantial percentage of the Australian clip was grown in the western division of the State,  Mr Blacker  said that the relaxation of the embargo by regulation in defiance of a vote in the Senate for its retention pending a plebiscite of growers was viewed by many, in the wool industry as an 'appalling' action. 
The Federal Government could not, in fact, have chosen a more inappropriate time to discontinue the embargo. To vast numbers of growers in the western division it seemed like a 'slap in the face' while they were suffering acutely from the effects of low wool prices and ever-rising production costs. 
A little later the document states: 
He believed it was the duty of members of all parties to restore the authority of Parliament by re-imposing the export ban by parliamentary decision pending a plebiscite of growers. It was a matter of principle which should transcend party loyalties. 
This is what the Opposition believes. To satisfy the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  1 shall cite the remarks of the Victorian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Chandler,  contained in a written reply to a question by the member of the Legislative Assembly for Moonee Ponds. I do so so that there shall be no suggestion that I am taking his remarks out of context. The report of his answer states: 
The Victorian Government believed there were strong reasons for opposing the sale of merino rams to overseas competitors. 
Whatever may have been said to the contrary, competition from overseas buyers for merino rams will tend to raise the prices, reduce the numbers and lower the standard of rams available to Australian wool growers in the short-term at least.' 
What is the attitude of the Graziers Association to this matter? A resolution moved by  Mr M.  N. Clark of Warialda called on the Association to seek the re-introduction of the embargo. This resolution was carried by a majority of 62 votes to 32. The AWIC majority in favour of this proposal was 37 to 16. Is this clear-cut evidence that the wool industry wants the embargo lifted? Does the Minister for Primary Industry really believe that the AWIC is truly representative of the wool growing industry? Does he believe that its decisions always should be taken as gospel? If so, why did the Government refuse to accept the recommendation by the AWIC for a reserve price scheme? That issue went to a referendum because there was controversy over the matter, the same as there is now. On that occasion, when the matter was submitted to the wool growers at a referendum they threw out the proposal. 
Let us be consistent about this. If it is suggested that we must agree to representations made by the AWIC let there be no inconsistency as the Minister is now proposing. I do not intend to relate the whole history of this wrangle. The Senate's rejection of the Government's action is well known. Honourable members are aware of the involvement of the ACTU in this issue. There was an invitation to unions by wool growers to help the industry. There was the secret smuggling of sheep from airports, even under armed guard. It was admitted in the Parliament that this occurred at the Richmond air base. This was the sorry farce brought about by a weak and negative government. 
I invite honourable members to consider the remarkable argument put up by  Mr Anthony  that the Government could not ignore the recommendations by the AWIC, which is the supreme industry body - the parliament of the wool growers - or determine the matter by referendum. If that is the case, why did we not have the same argument about the reserve price scheme when the growers would not agree with the recommendation from the AWIC? Let us look at the matter objectively. 1 think everybody in the Parliament will agree that a case has been established to show that there are serious differences of opinion within the wool industry. I have mentioned the attitudes of organisations and wool growers. Even State governments and the AWIC have come into the matter. 
The Opposition's attitude is clear. While there is this serious controversy, at least a right should be given to wool growers who are directly affected to express by referendum their views on the subject. But the Government is bowing to the wishes of and pressures from a small powerful group in the wool industry. The Government refuses point blank to allow wool growers to express themselves by referendum. The Labor Party will not agree to a relaxation of this 42-year ban until a vote has been given to wool growers. They are fully entitled to it and they are eligible so let us not have the type of argument that we cannot get a sufficiently representative poll or that we would not know which wool growers should vote. Any self-respecting statistician would be able to work this out immediately if he were given the terms of reference. 
Let us examine the pros and cons of the arguments relating to the removal of the export ban. It is argued that the export of merino rams will raise the standard of wool throughout the world; that it will enable wool to compete more effectively with synthetics; that it will create an increased demand for wool and that it will give a boost to Australian stud breeders. These are some of the arguments. Remarkably, however, it is said by some that there would be no significant effect whatsoever because of the environmental restrictions of overseas countries as compared with Australia. If that is the case the Government, by relaxing this embargo, is deliberately antagonising large sections of the wool industry. The whole argument is full of inconsistencies. 
The argument most frequently advanced in favour of the retention of the embargo is that merino wool is the best ail-purpose wool in the world, built up after years of research and husbandry, so why should Australia provide rams to overseas countries to compete against Australian wool producers? When the wool industry was financially sound there was no strong move by the stud breeders to sell the best rams overseas. Another argument - one which cannot be refuted - is that relaxation of the embargo will increase the price of stud rams to Australian wool growers. All the best rams will go overseas, because overseas countries have the most money to invest in them, and Australian wool growers will have to accept second best rams. 
All these points have to be looked at. I personally have an open mind on this issue. I am fully aware, from my experience throughout Australia, that there is one salient scientific and economic fact, namely, for the gene build up of the Australian merino there has to be a climatic environment suitable to that particular gene. It is argued that Australia has the right environment. This is a grey area. It is questionable what other countries have these conditions and what countries do not have them. 
In conclusion, the cold facts are these: The Government is being pressurised by a powerful group of vested interests of stud breeders, of agents and of pastoral houses to relax this embargo for their own financial gain. The Australian Wool Industry Conference does not democratically represent the views of the wool industry throughout Australia, particularly the small family traditional wool producer. The Government is arrogantly ignoring the rank and file wool growers who surely are entitled to express their opinion, through a democratic process, on a matter which affects them financially. The Government has arrogantly ignored the Senate direction given to it with respect to this matter. In other words, the Government is shamming in this Parliament. The Government's bitterness against the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions of Australia is revealed in this motion today. Let the wool industry itself decide on this issue. 
It has? Does the Minister think that the AWIC, by a vote of 37 to 16, speaks for the entire wool industry of Australia? If he does then there are very few producers in Australia who do. Let the wool industry itself decide. Let the small bona fide traditional wool producers, who are the economic backbone of this nation in the wool growing areas, tell the Government whether they want the embargo relaxed. If there is a decision to relax the embargo partially along the lines of the motion, the Opposition will agree to it, but it will not agree to any partial relaxation of the embargo until the traditional wool growers of Australia have had the right to express their opinions in this matter. 
I was drawn into the debate by the  remarks  made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  about  Mr Redmond.  I have known him for a very long time - since the last war. I cannot speak on behalf of the Opposition - the matter has not been considered - but I would support any move to have the name of Redmond associated with a major development road in the Northern Territory. At the time that I became associated with beef roads the Commonwealth Government laid down fairly rigorous criteria that the roads had to be justified on economic terms. The economic terms laid down related to balance of payments - export income. I do not think there is any doubt- there is no doubt in my mind anyhow - that the factor which caused the greatest acceleration of development in the Northern Territory, apart from minerals, and on which mineral exports depend, was the provision of sealed roads in the Territory. I do not know how the Northern Territory would have developed if originally the Barkly and Stuart highways had not been constructed. Those 2 arterial roads linked Darwin with South Australia and Queensland. They really opened up development in the Northern Territory. 
I believe that the next positive stage of development in the Northern Territory was the beef road scheme, which tapped the 4 major areas of development in the Northern Territory - the cattle country of Alice Springs, on both sides of the highway; the Victoria River area, by a road linking the bituminised highway up the middle with the East Kimberleys; the Darwin-Gulf area, with its excellent roads, one of which is under discussion today; and the Barkly Tableland area. When these roads were being evaluated there was an element of opposition from certain people in the Northern Territory. I was under the impression that such opposition had gone by the board, now. There was a fear that if development roads were constructed the very large properties held by Northern Territory landownerrs, particularly absentee owners, would be cut up. I can remember that being the case in relation to the proposed Northern Territory railway from Birdum to Dajarra. When I was a public servant working on these development projects I made it quite clear that as far as I was concerned no absentee owner had the right to interfere with, prohibit or prevent any development in the Northern Territory on such grounds. I know that at that time the Government would not tolerate the view that development should not proceed because of fears held by landowners on sub-division. I was under the impression that this type of opposition had gone because the advent of road trains proved that the days of droving were over and that it was a more economic proposition to move cattle on wheels than it was to walk them many hundreds of miles along the stock routes. 
I hope that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is in charge of the debate today, will take up with the Government the suggestion that the name Redmond be associated with a major development road in the Northern Territory. I do not necessarily suggest that this highway be called the Redmond Highway, but I certainly ask the Government to give serious consideration to naming one major highway, particularly in the Top End area, the Redmond Highway because George Redmond has played a major part in the post-war development of the Northern Territory. I speak from first hand knowledge of the subject because when these roads were being evaluated there was a lot of opposition from the Treasury benches which forced the Bureau of Agriculture and others to make certain that all facts in regard to beef turn-off for instance were substantiated in every respect. It was a great help to have  Mr Redmond's  estimates on unsealed and sealed roads and cost of maintenance. With his help we were able to present a case which, I think, has spoken for itself in terms of its value. I support the proposition because I believe that his name should be associated with road development in the Northern Territory. He has played his part and has given his time quite freely - certainly outside the hours normally worked by a public servant. He would make himself available on a Saturday or a Sunday or at night to go to the outback if there was a problem. I endorse the proposition that George Redmond's name be associated with either this highway or a major highway in the Northern Territory. 
The principal objective of this Bill is to enable amendments to be made to the Honey Industry Act 1962-1966. The principal objective of the amendments is to allow for changes in the method of appointing industry representatives to the Australian Honey Board. The machinery measures envisaged in the amendments purport to make the Honey Board more effective and more representative of the honey industry in Australia, with a minimum of frustration in the operation of the Board itself. The Bill provides for a Board of 10 members, one to be appointed by the Commonwealth, 5 to represent producers of honey, and 4 to represent packers. The 5 producer representatives are to be from the mainland States, and the 4 packer represents also are to be from the mainland States other than Queensland. 
It would seem from the explanation given by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and also from deputations and other representations we have had that there has been a considerable amount of dissatisfaction with the operation of the Honey Board, particularly with respect to procedures adopted in the appointment of producer members and also the alleged domination by packers of the Board. Previously the procedure for appointment of producer members was to allow for the nomination of particular members by the State apiarist associations and for these nominations to receive the concurrence of the Federal Council of the Australian Apiarists Association. It would seem that this was one of the major problems, because under the constitution of the Federal Council the major decisions made by the Council must be unanimous, and if they are not unanimous this can cause frustration and even a holdup in the affairs of the Board. It could even hold up the appointment of members. So serious criticism has been made with respect to the machinery for appointing member and also with respect to the operation of the Australian Honey Board. 
There have been many complaints from beekeeper associations and from individual beekeepers throughout Australia. These complaints have been considered by the Government and by the Australian Agricultural Council. It would seem that after their deliberations they have reached the decision that the best way out for all concerned is the democratic process of holding a referendum to allow the beekeepers themselves to decide whom they want to be on the Australian Honey Board to represent them in the various States in which they reside. The amended Act lays down that in regard to the poll eligibility to vote will be restricted to those producers having 200 or more hives. I suppose that just how the decision in regard to 200 hives neat was arrived at is not explainable. Nevertheless, it is the minimum figure agreed upon by the Australian Agricultural Council, which represents all of the States as well as the Commonwealth as being the number of hives which will provide a reasonable living for a producer and his family. I think it can be argued logically that this figure could be reduced to 180 hives, 170 hives, 150 hives or 100 hives, but I am not going to labour this point. I accept the fact that it has been examined thoroughly by State governments, including Labor Party governments. This has been accepted by the standing committee of the Australian Agricultural Council and the Council itself. If this is the best figure which has been arrived at for eligibility to vote in a poll to elect representatives of bona fide beekeepers - those receiving the majority of their income from honey - this is the figure that should be adopted by us. I have no doubt that if at a later date this figure of 200 hives is shown to be too high the Government will have no objection to reducing it for future elections. 
Of course, there is a considerable difference of opinion amongst beekeeper associations and individual beekeepers regarding the composition of the Board. Possibly 3 broad differences of opinion exist. Firstly, there is the group which believes no packers should be on the Australian Honey Board. Secondly, others believe that the number of packers on the Board should be reduced by one or more. Thirdly, others believe that producers who are also packers should be ineligible to represent producers on the Board. I believe that the answers to those 3 arguments are best seen in the light of experience of boards operating in Australia today. One can logically accept some of the arguments. But when one looks at the experience of producer or marketing boards I think the argument can be resolved by saying that the best board, when we are dealing with the marketing of a product, is one which also contains people who are concerned with commercial marketing. 
Just to give one example, I believe from my experience with the Australian Meat Board that it would be weakened considerably if representatives of the meat works were not on it. Such people bring to a board a tremendous wealth of experience not only in regard to marketing of a product in Australia but also in regard to the marketing of that product overseas. So although logical arguments exist for a purely producer board in every sense of the word, my experience with boards operating in Australia which are concerned with orderly marketing is that they operate best to the benefit of producers and the industry alike if they can command the experience of packers, as in this case, or the equivalent people in other industries. 
Dealing with the argument that producers who are not packers should not be on the Board, I think I have answered that in one way. The other strong argument is that surely it is up to the producers to decide whom they want on the board. I think it is quite wrong for a department or even a government to tell producers whom they must elect or, at least, what restrictions shall apply in respect of producers who might also be engaged in packing. I believe the strong argument here is quite valid. The producers might believe that a person is best suited to represent them. They know him personally, know his ability and his initiative. If that person happens to have packing interests and the producers have voted to have him on the Board, who are we to say that the producers - the beekeepers - are wrong? It is their industry and it is up to them to put on the Board the person whom they want. 
I think that if one looks at the 3 arguments advanced by some State apiarists associations and by some beekeepers that no packers should be represented on the Board one finds that they are nowhere near as strong as those advanced for why there should be representatives of the marketing experts on the Board. However, I say this: At all times the Opposition will argue that the producers must dominate the Board. I think it can be said fairly in reply to those who allege that there has been domination by packer interests on the Australian Honey Board that there is no proof of this. Let me examine the proposition of reducing the number of packers, say to 3. Which State would suffer? The States of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia are involved. Which State would have a representative taken off the Board? Would South Australia have a representative taken off? I would think that the associations in South Australia would object to that. A representative from one State would have to be removed. Again, I think this is where the argument would fall to the ground. Some States might want packers taken off and others might not want them taken off. An impasse would be reached. I believe the composition of the Board is satisfactory. It does work and should work. But there are 2 basic criteria which should always be remembered: Firstly, it is the producers themselves who are best equipped to decide whom they want on the Board. Secondly, packer interests should be represented on the Board to give weight and commercial strength to it. 
Turning to the ballots, some argument has been advanced regarding the manipulation of the ballot in respect to the 200 hives and multiple votes. It has been argued by some that there is nothing to stop a beekeeper who has 800 hives from having 4 votes. I think I am right in saying that every commercial beekeeper in Australian has to be registered under State Acts. Certainly in most States that is so because there are disease problems and it is a requirement. In the light of experience of other industries covered by Commonwealth legislation, I just cannot imagine that this type of manipulation would occur. It might occur but I do not see what benefit would accrue. New partnerships could not be formed without running into problems. Once a partnership is made up the Taxation Office comes into the matter. No-one will convince me that beekeepers will deliberately create multiple partnerships merely to obtain extra votes. On the other hand, if they do that they are entitled to do so under the regulation. 
I will probably deal with this more fully at the Committee stage. If 2 partners own 200 hives and they are equally active in the business, which one gets the vote? One of them must get the vote, but which one? Do they toss a coin, is one selected or do they have some type of vote between themselves? The legislation has to be quite clear with regard to ballots. If 2 partners own 400 hives, obviously each one gets a vote, but when 2 partners own 200 hives, which one votes if an argument arises? 
In the amendments proposed to the Act no mention is made of age limits. Does this mean that a person, say, 10 years of age is entitled to a vote when he is a legitimate partner in a family partnership? These matters are not important enough to warrant my proposing amendment, but I remind honourable members that there are not many votes in the industry. There are probably about 800 enterprises in Australia with 200 hives or more. These small points could become, important because there are not many hives in each State and the people who frame the regulations in rela tion to ballots must take these matters into consideration. With similar Commonwealth and State legislation there has been no experience of deliberate, attempts to manipulate ballots by the creation of new partnerships in order to gain extra votes. That sort of action is accompanied by all types of problems. I have mentioned only one - income taxation. 
I wish to comment briefly on another aspect of the Minister's second reading speech. I have noticed that Tasmania has no representatives on the Board. Obviously the Tasmanian beekeepers meeting the eligibility requirements are few and far between. By agreement with the Tasmanian Government and the industry in Tasmania - apparently the Tasmanian apiarists have decided not to be represented on the Board - moneys collected under the legislation will be refunded or returned to the Tasmanian Government and then to the Tasmanian Beekeepers Association for promotion and research purposes. I do not like this type of arrangement. I have had some problems in the past concerning north Queensland poultry farmers. There will be similar problems with this arrangement and I do not like it. The Commonwealth collects the moneys from individuals as required by the Constitution. Then it has an arrangement with the Tasmanian Government to refund that same money to the State Government. It is virtually left to the State Government to decide what it will do with the money and to make the rules and regulations as to whether the money is to be refunded to individuals or, as in this case, to an association. 
Shortly I will be raising with the Minister an analogous case concerning poultry farmers in north Queensland. It involves a man and his wife who have paid their fees religiously over the years. In the last 12 months, because the Egg Board alleges that the fees were paid late, despite the fact that they were paid in full, these people are not to get back one penny of those fees. With a Labor government in power this would not happen. That is one of the first amendments that would be made to legislation of mis type. Certainly the Constitution would be got around. This type of agreement will have to be made more watertight so that the Commonwealth has complete and utter control over these moneys, instead of the present arrangement under which a State government apparently can decide what to do with the refund it receives. 
I say quite categorically that I do not like this type of legislation covering State governments and the refund of moneys collected. It is far better not to collect the money at all. I appreciate the constitutional problems involved, but it is preferable not to collect the money and thus avoid the rigmarole and read tape of having to refund it to a State government which in turn decides whether it will pass it on to individuals under the guise of promotion and research funds or do something else with it. I give warning now that every time this type of legislation comes before us I will have something to say about it. If Labor takes office I can assure honourable members that some changes will be made to legislation containing similar provisions. I believe that the way in which it works is quite wrong and unfair. 
I have covered the principal points in the Bill. I do not wish to deal with other issues such as the marketing of honey overseas. This Bill is really confined to the setting up of machinery for the election of producers and packers to the Australian Honey Board. I hope that the Minister will keep the Board under review. I do not know about honourable members opposite, but Opposition members have received more representations and letters and have had more cases put up to them about these proposed amendments than have been received when a major industry has been involved. The beekeepers are extremely active in the administration of the affairs of their industry. I hope that this legislation will be kept under review. I have never been advised of such a remarkable number of different cases as those that have been put up to us in respect of this legislation. These cases are diametrically different in many respects but have been put up in good faith and we are giving them careful consideration. I believe that the Board has the structure to work provided it is looked at carefully and the beekeepers in each State take an active interest in the polls. They must take an active interest in the affairs of the industry and in the people whom they elect to represent them on the Honey Board. It is up to the beekeepers or producers themselves to elect the people whom they want. It is no good belly-aching after the event. There are not that many of them in Australia. I assume that they are well aware, or will be made well aware, of the provisions of these amendments and the eligibility clauses with respect to ballots, both as to the candidate himself and as to those eligible to vote. Given that information, they will be able to select the best person for the job on the Australian Honey Board. If that course is followed, the Board has a good chance of operating efficiently, and certainly operating much more efficiently than it has operated in the past. 
I forewarn the Minister that I will be raising a couple of points in the Committee stage. I will be referring to the technical question of the Parliament being given more information about these allowances which are called 'prescribed allowances'. I will be asking just what they are. I think the Parliament is entitled to know not just what will be the salary of the  chairman  or the allowance given to the producer members or the packer members but also some information regarding these prescribed allowances. Just what are these allowances? The Parliament has become very conscious, in the last 6 months or so, of the allowances paid to members of boards and, I might add, to public servants, and it is entitled to have more information about these allowances which members of boards receive. 
I seek leave to make a short statement,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I give notice that, contingent on the order of the day for the resumption of the debate on the second reading of the Fisheries Bill 1971 being read, I shall move: 
That in view of the close relationship of this legislation, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on the second reading of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970 being resumed forthwith and the Bill having precedence of the Fisheries Bill 1971 until disposed of. 
I also give notice that contingent on the order of the day for the resumption of the debate on the second reading of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill 1971 being read, I shall move: 
That in view of the close relationship of the legislation, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the debate on the second reading of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970 being resumed forthwith and the Bill having precedence of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill 1971 until disposed of. 
It is almost 2 years now since any positive decision has been taken by the Government in the allocation of further funds under the national water resources programme. These funds are required for urgent water conservation projects - multi-purpose projects - in the States. It cannot be argued by the Government that lack of finance is one of the factors which is causing the delay because the House will recall that about 2 years ago the Commonwealth provided $150m to be allocated to the States for water conservation projects. Of the $150m promised by the Government to the States for water conservation projects, only $89m has been allocated up to this point of time. Of that $89m, only approximately $50m has been spent. 
It seems fairly obvious that in the last  2  years there have been reasonably good seasons in the most important agricultural districts of Australia which are affected by recurring droughts and these good seasons or better seasons have lulled the Government into a sense of false complacency. The Queensland Government has submitted to the Commonwealth several soundly based water conservation projects. They principally are multi-purpose projects located in the giant Burdekin basin. The principle involved here would be to develop progressively this basin for the benefit of Townsville, which is the major beneficiary, and for heavy industrial processing. Ancillary to that, of course, water would be provided for agriculture and livestock. 
Despite the fact that promises have been made year after year with respect to the development of the Burdekin project, nothing has been done. I can remember when the then Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn  - that will give honourable members an idea of how many years ago it was - informed the Parliament that a feasibility study of this project would be made and the results would be given to the Parliament. That was over 3 years ago and we are still waiting. In addition to the water which is required for agricultural and pastoral pursuits, there is an urgent need for water for industrial use in the northern parts of Queensland. Honourable members will know that the coastal areas of central and northern Queensad contain the ports and facilities for the hinterland and for the great deposits of natural resources such as coal and other minerals and this is where the importance of water conservation lies. 
The other point I wish to make is that a veil of secrecy seems to surround the Government particularly with respect to plans and decisions relating to water conservation projects. I think it is essential that progressive evaluation be made and that the results of such evaluation be made available to the Parliament at regular intervals for close examination. Whereas 2 years ago the Government showed some evidence of accepting its national responsibility in the field of water conservation, it now appears that its policies have been reversed. The Government is going back to its policy of the old days of opposing water conservation projects. Why has the Government not made one single decision in the last 2 years with respect to the national water resources programme in terms of a minor or major water conservation project? The further development of Townsville and the coastal areas of Queensland is closely linked with the harnessing of water resources. 
The 2 principal projects that will serve established and proven areas - I stress this point - are the Eton irrigation scheme and the Burdekin water conservation scheme. The Eton irrigation scheme meets the criteria laid down by the Government. It is the development of an export commodity. More importantly, in terms of economic justification, it is located in a soundly established agricultural area in which there is proven evidence of the loss of production each time there is a drought. The project is straightforward and no-one can tell me that those responsible for the evaluation of this project have not reached some conclusion. It is the same old story: Unless they are pressed, we will have the notorious interdepartmental committees meeting every couple of weeks and the Treasury drawing red herrings across the trail and each week going back to work out some more answers until the Government is ready to make a decision on an irrigation or a water conservation project. This is one of the most frustrating aspects of Commonwealth decisions and causes a great waste of time. When the Government is not ready to make a decision, the favourite approach is to establish an interdepartmental committee. 
The point I wish to make is that I believe a decision should be made with respect to these projects because although there have been 2 good seasons, particularly in the established agricultural areas, there is absolutely no reason to believe that there will not be another drought in areas which have proved that they are highly susceptible to drought. When there is a loss of national export income and when this loss is costed at whatever the import parity price might be and related to the actual revenue and operating and capital costs of a project, it is not a difficult proposition at least to get a best estimate of the economic justification of that project. It should not take years to make decisions with respect to conservation projects. So, I urge the Government to do something positive. 
I am interested to note that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has suddenly realised that he had better do something about the Burdekin project, because the decisions in relation to the Burdekin development are of vital importance to the city of Townsville and to the electors of Townsville. While discussing the honourable member for Herbert, I should like  to  refer to an article which appeared in today's 'Courier Mail'. The article stated that  Mr Bonnett  was one of the most worried of the Liberal members because of the Governments lack of decision on the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville. This institute is badly needed in the northern part of Queensland. I am glad to see that the honourable member is now in the House. Well might he be worried, because if there is any delay in the provision of Commonwealth funds for the construction of this laboratory, the responsibility will rest to a great degree on the shoulders of the honourable member for Herbert because it is his Government that introduced into the Parliament the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and the Government has sat on it. The honourable member for Herbert well knows that he was one of those who supported the previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  with respect to this Bill. My advise to him would be not to take too much notice of the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in this matter because, as he well knows, this is a question of self survival for him. What the honourable member wants to do is to go into his party room, get stuck into the Prime Minister and tell him straight: Get this territorial sea and continental shelf legislation cleaned up and cleaned up fast', because there can be no delay in setting up the marine science institute which is needed in North Queensland, and the honourable member knows that. 
That is the warning which I give to the honourable member for Herbert, because he well knows that the game of politics is a pretty ruthless one, and it is and will be a pretty ruthless game in the electorate of Herbert. Although he supports the setting up of the marine institute, just as the Labor Party has supported it for IS years - since the time when  Senator Dittmer  was the first person to put the suggestion forward - the stage has now been reached at which the committee has made a decision, the Government has made a decision, and the Government was to bring the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill forward for debate quickly. I now see that it has been demoted from Order of the Day No. 6 yesterday to Order of the Day No. 14 today. It is of paramount importance that this research institute should be constructed in Australia, and it is of paramount importance that the honourable member for Herbert should use his influence in his party room to get the territorial sea and continental shelf legislation before this Parliament, so that the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill can be passed by the Parliament, the research centre constructed and this valuable research carried out. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)I must point out to the honourable member that he is anticipating debate on Bills that are yet to be debated in the House. 
I fully recognise the Government's great worry in this matter, and I fully realise that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will do everything possible to gag me and prevent me from mentioning the Territorial Seas Continental Shelf legislation. 
I will not take up the time of the House but I want to ask several questions of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  The first question concerns the carriage of a Bill. Under the amendment to the Standing Orders it would seem that the Assistant Minister has the full rights of a Minister in charge of a Bill. This means that he has full responsibility of making decisions in relation to the carriage of a Bill. As every honourable member knows, when a Bill is being debated amendments are moved by the Opposition at certain times and those amendments have to be answered. The Government, through the Minister at the table at the time, makes a decision on each amendment. In the past here we have seen Ministers at the table - the latest was the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  - accept certain amendments moved by the Opposition. The question I ask is: Has the Assistant Minister the right to accept on behalf of the Government an amendment moved by the Opposition? I would say quite frankly that he has not that right; only the 
Minister in charge of that portfolio has the right. Only the Minister responsible for the carriage of that Bill on behalf of the Ministry and pursuant to a Cabinet decision has that right. I would suggest that the Assistant Minister has no right to accept or reject an amendment; it can be done only by the Minister in charge of the Bill. 
The Opposition also is concerned with the position of questions which are asked in Committee. In these amendments to the Standing Orders the Assistant Ministers have the right to take charge of a debate in Committee. When we on the Opposition side ask a question of the Minister at the table we expect to get an official reply by which the Government is bound. When the Minister gives us that reply we accept it in good faith. For instance, if the Minister says that he will review a situation we accept that. But what right have we to accept the word of an Assistant Minister? He has no right to reject or accept an amendment Therefore, what right has he to express an official decision on behalf of the Government - the Government is the Ministry - on any question asked by the Opposition? Honourable members cannot ask him a question at question time so how on earth can we ask him a question when a Bill is being debated and expect to get an answer? If we did ask a question we would get an answer but that answer would have no legal standing in this Parliament such as has the answer given by a Minister. I can only say that in this respect the Assistant Minister may sit at the table but this would be a complete farce. 
An Assistant Minister has no power or right to reject or accept decisions with respect to amendments to Bills or to answer questions put by members of the Opposition in the committee stage or to make decisions with respect to clauses In a Bill. He cannot have those rights. Only the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Minister in charge of the portfolio, the Minister in charge of the Department, the Minister responsible to the Cabinet, can have those responsibilities. Therefore I say that nobody in this House can accept the recommendation that gives the right to Assistant Ministers to make decisions on behalf of the Government which is the Cabinet with respect to amendments or decisions relating to particular Bills. 
I would like to explore this matter further, because there is some difference of opinion between the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and myself. Let us consider the practicalities of the situation. The Minister presents to the Cabinet a submission which he, his Department or an interdepartmental committee has prepared. The Cabinet then makes a decision, and that decision can be enforced through a Bill which ultimately becomes legislation. Let us assume, as the honourable member for Wills said, that the Bill under consideration is a budgetary Bill dealing with sales tax. The Cabinet decides that a certain rate of sales tax will be levied. The Assistant Minister, I would assume, is not in the Cabinet room so he does not hear the arguments for and against or the pros and cons put forward by different Cabinet Ministers. He then takes charge df the Bill and we ask him, in the Committee stage, for explanations. Then, as the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said and as I have said, we may then move an amendment for a reduction in the sales tax. It might be only 2 per cent. I submit that this is a most important question of Government policy and that the Assistant Minister has absolutely no right to make any decision on behalf of the Government - and the Government is the Cabinet 
1 1 does not matter. If the Assistant Minister accepts or rejects an amendment, will the people sitting behind him vote against him? Of course they will not. They will suport him. They will have to support him. We are not all having free votes from now on. This will be a regimented business. I am giving a practical example of how a budgetary Bill before the House works in relation to a highly important matter such as the rate of sales tax. A decision is taken by the Government; it is translated into a Bill which is introduced into the House by the Minister; in the Committee stage the Assistant Minister takes charge; I, for example, move an amendment. What right has the Assistant Minister to alter the decision of a government? There could be exceptional cases when the Minister responsible, who had piloted that submission through the Cabinet, could himself decide to take full responsibility for accepting or rejecting an amendment. I submit that the Assistant Minister has absolutely no right to do so, and to assume that he would have a majority is beside the point. 
I assume that if I put forward an amendment to reduce sales tax and the Assistant Minister decided that this would, be a good thing and he also accepted the amendment, every member on the Government side would support him. All I am saying is that translated into practical politics, the Assistant Ministers have no right to and cannot make judgment or decisions in the Committee stage of a Bill. Only the Minister responsible for that Bill has the. right to make that decision. 

 Mr SWARTZ (Darling Downs-Minister for National Development) - I may speak on the amendment that has been moved, but I did ask for leave to refer very briefly to a couple of other matters that have been raised before because I think they need clarification. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who is a colleague of mine on the Standing Orders Committee has raised a question. He is there in an official capacity whereas I am merely ex officio. At the same time, we both agreed to the report which is now before the House. The question of the necessity for clause (c) of item 1 was considered by the Committee in view of the fact that a private member could handle a private member's Bill. The advice to the Standing Orders Committee was that it was necessary to include this clause to allow the Assistant Minister to act in this particular capacity. It was put in to conform to the requirements of the Standing Orders and to give authority to the Assistant Minister to so act. But he could not act in the capacity as a private member handling a Government Bill. So the point raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is quite correct in that respect. 
However, I think the practical results of the additional points raised by the honourable member for Dawson would be that if an amendment was moved by the Opposition to a clause during the Committee stage of a Bill when the Assistant Minister was in charge sitting at the table, he would have no authority to accept that amendment but would refer the matter to his Minister. This again is in accordance with the Standing Orders. Upon his referring the matter to his Minister, the Minister would either take over at that point of time or give some indication to the Committee as to what the position would be. So in relation to that matter the Assistant Minister would be in charge only in a practical sense, the main reason being to relieve the Minister for a time purely on a matter of administration. But if a matter of policy arose obviously the Minister has the responsibility to deal with it and he would have to make a decison at the time. 
I would like to clear up one or two points that were raised by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  I can speak on this matter with some sense of background because, as he said, I was a Parliamentary Secretary in the days to which he referred, but I do not think it was  14  years ago. It probably only seems like that. It was in fact  9  years ago before I went into the Ministry in  1961.  So the honourable member was going back into what is now the early history of this Parliament. But at that time Parliamentary Secretaries had no standing, constitutionally or otherwise, in this House principally because, so far as payment is concerned, the Constitution refers to Ministers of State but also because at that stage Parliamentary Secretaries had not been sworn into the Executive Council. In fact, at that point of time the then Prime Minister had sought legal advice and the advice given to him was that if Parliamentary Secretaries were sworn in to the Executive Council they could have some standing in this House under the Standing Orders if the proposal were accepted by the House. 
As I say, at that point of time the situation changed. As the sole remaining member of that group that time I went into the Ministry and so the matter was left standing. But it has been revived and the system of Assistant Ministers now has been introduced and approved by this House. It is a system which was in operation in most parliaments throughout the world, but because of our constitutional problem in regard to the payment of Ministers of State only, the Parliamentary Secretaries could not be paid for their duties as Parliamentary Secretaries. So it is that Assistant Ministers today cannot be paid as Assistant Ministers because it would become an office of profit under the Crown. Of course, they can be paid certain expenses, as were Parliamentary Secretaries in the past. I merely indicate that to clarify a point that was raised by the honourable member for Grayndler. 
I think the position generally is that the points raised in relation to the appointment of Assistant Ministers were considered very carefully by the Standing Orders Committee. In fact, the matter was discussed at great length and advice was received from the Clerks in relation to a number of technical matters. The recommendations now before the House in this report conform to the authority that was given to the Parliament by vote of this House; that is, a vote of the House approved the appointment of Assistant Ministers. The report of the Standing Orders Committee which is now before us is designed to implement, in accordance with the Standing Orders, the requirements contained in the motion that was passed by this House. So I agree with the honourable member for Wills that the first group of paragraphs that I have mentioned in the report should receive the endorsement of the House. 
The drastic decline in the rate of oil exploration activity in Australia in the past 12 months represents a serious warning to the Federal Government that Australia can face huge costs for imported petroleum products in the future. At present Australia is approximately 70 per cent self-sufficient in its crude oil requirements. Import costs are running at $190m in the last year, but although this current, relatively high level of selfsufficiency suggests a bright situation, the immediate future can be regarded as somewhat dark. If there are no further oil discoveries in Australia import costs of crude oil and petroleum products will jump to approximately S370m by 1975. By 1980 import costs could reach $650m. By 1975 it is estimated that domestic production will cover only 50 per cent of our total requirements and that by 1980 this proportion will drop to 28 per cent. 
The significance of future oil imports to the Australian economy can be seen by the analysis of projected costs of all imports within the next 20 years. In the absence of any further discoveries of oil in Australia, costs of crude oil imports are estimated to amount to a total of at least $1 6.000m over the next 20-year period. These are frightening figures for imports in relation to a budget. The magnitude of this potential increase in import costs must be taken very seriously. In all probability further oil discoveries will occur, but this cannot be taken for granted. The significance of future costs of oil imports can be gauged by the estimate that to secure selfsufficiency in oil over the next 20 years Australia would have to find and develop major oil fields equal, say, to the Bass Strait wells every 2 years. If Australia is forced to pay huge import bills for crude oil in the future tremendous pressure will be exerted on our basic export industries to earn foreign exchange, and although moderate increases in manufactured goods can be expected in the future, the major burden of financing imports will have to be borne by the agricultural, livestock and mineral industries. It is therefore clear that present Government inactivity and apathy in the field of oil exploration cannot be allowed to continue. 
Already the Government's inactive policies in the field of oil exploration and development are causing a serious slowing down in drilling and geophysical work. In 1971 the total footage of wells drilled dropped by 38 per cent compared with 1970. A total of 760,800 feet was drilled in 1971 as against 1.2 million feet in 1970. The decline in oil exploration activities is even more serious when it is shown that only 101 wells were drilled in 1971 compared with 212 in 1970. Although it is accepted that an important reason for the slowing down of activity is a sharp drop in drilling in onshore wells in Queensland and off-shore wells in Victoria, the fact nevertheless remains that oil exploration is sick. A major proportion of the blame for the condition of this sick industry must be borne by the Government as a direct result of unsound development policies. Despite its undoubted economic importance to the Australian economy, oil exploration has become the Cinderella of Australian developmental industry. 
There is an urgent need to review the entire taxation, subsidy and domestic pricing policies with respect to the exploration and production of indigenous crude oil in Australia. A basic premise which must be accepted is that if Australia has extensive oil resources they should be found and developed to a level at least equal to selfsufficiency. It is indeed a sorry state of affairs when the Japanese Government is now financing Japanese companies to the extent of at least 50 per cent of opera tional  costs to  search for oil in Australian waters. In contrast, the Australian Government is paying Australian companies a maximum of 30 per cent of drilling costs in these same Australian waters. 
Because of the Federal Government's miserly policy on exploration subsidies it is obvious that more and more of Australia's offshore resources will fall under the direct control of foreign interests. Australian companies just cannot afford to search for oil off-shore unless heavily backed by the Federal Government. They cannot compete, under existing policies, with the rich and powerful foreign interests now exploring our off-shore resources. Oil exploration subsidies should be looked upon as a national investment which is capable of yielding tremendous results and returns to the overall Australian economy. The soundness of increasing investment subsidies is clearly illustrated by the benefits received up to the present. A total of approximately $ 1,000m in present day money, including the oil exploration subsidy, has been invested in oil and gas exploration activities up to 1972. This investment is now yielding a cash flow in excess of $300m per annum from the production of oil. At the present import parity price this value is of the order of 360m. In addition some 10 million cubic feet of gas will yield at least $900m for domestic usage, in addition to substantial reserves. Because the nation has suddenly jumped to 70 per cent of self-sufficiency in oil the Government has become extraordinarily complacent. But, as pointed out, unless the present rate of exploration activity is increased self-sufficiency can disappear within a decade. In view of the need to increase domestic oil supplies in the future and the magnitude of potential benefits from investment in oil exploration, there is an urgent and justifiable need substantially to increase the exploration subsidy, particularly to Australian companies. 
At the same time a Labor Government will give serious consideration to restructuring sections of the Bureau of Mineral Resources to allow the Bureau to enter the field of oil exploration and development. The establishment of a Commonwealth exploration authority would enable exploration and development of petroleum fields to be undertaken on behalf of the Australian people. Such an authority would work in close conjunction with the States and other exploration companies, both Australian and foreign. The French Government established the Bureau des Recherches du Petrole - BRP - after the last war. This Government authority has been responsible for the major part of the development of the oil industry in France and ils colonies to the great benefit of the French nation, in Italy the State owned ENI Corporation which was established in 1953 has played a major part in Italy's oil and natural gas exploration and production. In Japan oil exploration is mainly the responsibility of the Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. JAPEX is a partnership between the Japanese Government and private companies concerned with the petroleum industry. In addition to undertaking oil exploration and development in its own right a Commonwealth authority would participate by way of partnership arrangements with Australian and foreign companies in the systematic development of our nation's oil resources. 
One of the principal reasons for the reduction in oil exploration activity is the Government's absurd policy with respect to the guaranteed price for domestic indigenous crude oil. The domestic price for indigenous crude oil is pegged at the import parity price prevailing as at October 1968. This price is supposed to apply to 1975. When this price was first pegged the import parity price of crude oil was significantly lower than the Australian guaranteed price. This gave the industry a decided incentive to explore for oil. But early in 197) there were substantial increases in world prices, to the degree that producers of Australian oil are now receiving prices around 20 per cent below the real import parity price. Thus despite severe inflation which has played havoc with exploration and development costs, the Government refuses to increase the price of Australian oil to at least equivalent to the non-dumped import parity price. The overall result of this negative and extraordinarily bad policy will be to drive all small Australian companies out of the oil exploration field and to hand our oil resources to the major international oil combines. If the Federal Government does not drastically change its exploration subsidy and domestic pricing policies, and aim towards a goal of self-sufficiency in oil production, Australia will become progressively at the mercy of the overseas oil companies as our oil resources will progressively diminish. The domestic price of Australian crude oil should be increased immediately to a figure equivalent to the world parity price. This price should be regarded as a floor price. This action need not necessarily mean an increase in petrol prices. Under a Labor Government an increase in the price of a basic commodity like petrol would have to be considered by a prices tribunal in which the profits of oil companies would be closely scrutinised. Alternatively increased costs of the guaranteed price of indigenous crude oil could be treated as an investment subsidy in the same way as the exploration subsidy is borne by the nation as a whole. 
It is clear also that Australia must adopt policies aimed at securing progressively greater ownership of oil production, oil refineries and gasoline companies operating in Australia. At present, at least 70 per cent of oil exploration and production in Australia is in the hands of foreign interests. In the oil refining fields 90 per cent is in the hands of foreign interests. Eighty per cent of the total marketing of petroleum is in the hands of foreign interests. This does not mean that Labor is opposed to foreign investment in Australia. Labor recognises that where huge amounts of risk capital are involved, together with highly specialised technical know-how and cut-throat international competition, particularly with respect to marketing tie-ups. foreign capital is part and parcel of the development of a young nation's basic natural resources. But Labor is determined to implement positive policies that will give Australia a far greater equity in our mineral and oil resources. This will involve active participation by Commonwealth agencies in the fields of finance and resource development. 
The Federal Government steadfastly refuses io undertake sound planning programmes with respect to the systematic development of Australia's natural resources. The Government refuses to provide sound exploration and development incentives for Australian companies competing with foreign interests. It refuses to enter into the oil exploration field itself or to take an active partnership with Australian or foreign oil companies for the benefit of the Australian people. The Government persists with a bad development and economic principle in allowing the price of a valuable Australian commodity, a resource which is in short supply, to be less than the world parity price. This principle would not be accepted in any other country in developing a scarce resource. These policies are collectively allowing our basic resources to fall more and more under the control of foreign interests. I submit that no other nation would tolerate such negative and un-Australian policies. 
There is an urgent need to review the principles of taxation and oil exploration subsidies and the principle of foreign ownership participating in exploration and development. There is a very urgent need to have a close look at the development of oil fields in off-shore waters. Many times in this Parliament the Opposition has referred to the controversial Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. This Bill is fundamental to the development of Australia's off-shore resources. The Government stands condemned for its inactivity in this field and for its refusal to bring forward and allow the Parliament to debate and pass this controversial legislation which is fundamental to resource development in Australia. The Government could not care less about the development of Australia's basic resources for the benefit of Australians. We are seeing more and more of our basic resources being handed over on a plate to foreign interests, without any conscious policy on the part of the Government to develop these basic resources, particularly in oil and minerals, for the benefit of the Australian people. 
I want to say a few words in this debate about the economy of Papua New Guinea, particularly with respect to the rural sector. It would seem from the various surveys and investigations that have been carried out in Papua New Guinea that there is considerable potential for intensive and extensive agricultural and livestock development. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the nucleus of New Guinea's economy is agriculture and its ability to import goods and services is, to some degree, dependent - upon its ability to export agricultural products. New Guinea produces those types of products which have big question marks on them - tropical products which are produced in reasonably large volume by other tropical countries in which there is also a recognised potential for substantial development, particularly Brazil and the other South American countries. Nevertheless,1 it is quite pleasing to see that already much of the original work carried out in the field of agricultural development, from the grass roots of soil surveys and land classification to experimentation by the Department of Agriculture in New Guinea, has shown fairly conclusively that there does exist substantial potential for intensive agricultural and livestock development. 
However, I feel that the future with respect to agriculture should be treated quite carefully and that the people in New Guinea who are charged with the responsibility of agricultural development should take the gradual development of agriculture very seriously and not try to jump in and produce something quickly and then become immersed in the international marketing problems. I will elaborate on that point in a minute. It is quite clear that there is very considerable scope for development in the livestock industry, particularly in the area of beef cattle. Already, valuable work has been done with exotic breeds, as we know them, and the turn-off of meat per acre, the animal husbandry techniques and the overall agricultural-economic possibilities of this industry are most encouraging. This is one industry where there is a recognisable and sound market in the foreseeable future, particularly with the relationship between New Guinea and other countries close to the environment of New Guinea. The people of Papua New Guinea will be able to expand progressively in the beef industry by breeding up their numbers, culling and building up their herds over time and importing new blood into the country. It does seem that this industry will prosper and that there is great scope for its expansion. 
Yes, and in the contiguous valleys as well. With respect to tropical products - I will deal with them a little more extensively later - there has been a lot of agitation in recent years for New Guinea to go into sugar production. I sound a very clear note of warning with respect to the growing of sugar as a commercial enterprise in New Guinea. No-one doubts the ability agronomically to grow sugar in New Guinea. There is no question about it. There are many parts of New Guinea which could grow sugar better, in terms of agronomy, than Australia can. This is accepted. 
However, it is not just a question of growing cane. The tremendous infrastructure which is essential for a successful sugar industry involves not only very large amounts of money but also a high degree of technical know-how. Australia leads the world in its technical and marketing knowhow with respect to sugar and the efficiency of its industry as compared with those of other countries. So, I sound a clear note of warning to those people in Australia and New Guinea who advocate the establishment of a major sugar industry in New Guinea. As one who is closely associated with this industry, I know very well the problems which exist in respect of technology and research, which are concerned not only with the growing of cane but also and more particularly with the chemistry and the milling of sugar, the coefficients of output and the skill involved in the actual milling and selling of sugar which is developed not quickly but over a long period of years. I believe that the sugar industry is not the type of industry into which New Guinea should immediately jump. Certainly, let New Guinea experiment in the field to develop cane varieties, but I for one believe that it would be a grave mistake for New Guinea to enter a field like this which involves tremendous amounts of money and an infrastructure of roads, mills and bulk handling facilities and rigid marketing arrangements. 
I might say that this proposition is somewhat analogous to the possibility years ago of growing sugar in the Ord River atea. The Western Australian Government wanted to do that. It was quite clear from the experimental work that was carried out in that area and from the field trials based on years of experiments at the Kimberley Research Station that that area could grow excellent sugar cane. However, once the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd did a feasibility study on the area, it was proved quite conclusively that it really would be a waste of the taxpayers' money to spend probably 50m to SI 00m in establishing a complete sugar industry in the northern part of Western Australia when a viable industry, in terms of world market saturation, already existed in Queensland. So, there was no point in establishing further sugar industries. 
The same basic argument applies to New Guinea. Let New Guinea concentrate on the livestock industry, particularly the tropical breeds - the brahman breeds which have proved themselves in the tropics- and also on the tropical industries such as tea, coffee and cocoa. However, I believe that there needs to be a greater degree of liaison between the people of New Guinea on the agricultural production and marketing side and the research and marketing organisations in Australia because I feel that this is one area in which some deficiencies exist in' regard to New Guinea agriculture. New Guinea should have an appreciation of the future need to adopt a business-like approach to agricultural production and the need to have high level marketing people who are skilled in these fields, particularly when it is exporting commodities. 1 would also like to state that if we are to achieve closer liaison between Australia and New Guinea in the fields of agriculture and livestock production, which 1 believe is needed over time, serious consideration must be given - apparently this Government will not give it, but a Labor government certainly will - to the establishment of what is called a high security quarantine station in Australia. Australia is one of the few developed countries which do not have a high security quarantine station for the introduction of plant and animal material. It is a paradox that Australia, as one of the leading livestock and agricultural exporting countries of the world, does not have such a quarantine station. It is badly needed. Under present conditions, animals originating from countries other than New Zealand and Britain either are unable to enter Australia or must spend varying periods of time in Britain before being permitted to enter Australia. I am not arguing in any way for the relaxation of quarantine laws. 1 have never argued along those lines and I never will argue that way. In fact, I believe that the strictest quarantine laws regarding the importation of plant and livestock into Australia should apply here. 
Yes. If the Minister had been listening he would know that I am arguing for closer co-operation in the agricultural and livestock industries between New Guinea and Australia. The nucleus of agricultural and livestock industries in New Guinea has been supported by Australians, and the Minister should know that. Therefore in our responsibility of developing New Guinea further we should have to have a 2-way arrangement with that country in terms of scientific knowledge and technical skills. If we are to develop more closely with New Guinea we need to have high security quarantine stations in Australia. I know that the Department of Health is giving some consideration to such a station being established on .one of the islands off the Australian coast. If we want to introduce into Australia plants or livestock from New Guinea - this could even apply to dogs being brought back by people who have lived there - we have the ridiculous situation where they must spend 12 months in Britain before being permitted to enter Australia and they also must spend at least 2 months in quarantine once they enter Australia. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the Bill is concerned largely with the development of New Guinea and I was attempting to explain that one of the issues in the further development of New Guinea is a closer relationship between Australia and New Guinea as regards the importation of livestock. Let me return to some other aspects related to the development of New Guinea which are important to Australia. I am very pleased to say that the World Bank has made recommendations that clarification should be sought of the territorial water boundary between Australia, New Guinea and Indonesia. The resources of the off-shore waters of New Guinea are important to Australia and we are particularly concerned as to the delineation of the boundary. As you well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  great oil exploratory activity is being carried on in the grey areas of the boundaries between New Guinea, Indonesia and Australia. It is for this reason that I believe, and other members of this Parliament believe, that the quicker this territorial seas legislation is brought before the Parliament the better it will be. This legislation is most important because it would seem that in recent years New Guinea's fishing industry has become more sophisticated and it has been able to develop its fishing fleets so that they can come into proximity to Australian waters. We have before the Parliament 2 Bills which are concerned with the continental shelf and fishing. These Bills are of vital importance to New Guinea, and this whole question should be cleared up. 
In the development of its agricultural industries, I made the point that New Guinea would be wise to concentrate on the production of those commodities with which it could advance gradually. This applies to the livestock industry as well as to the production of tropical commodities which are indigenous to that area. But we must realise that New Guinea is producing commodities which it could find difficult to market in the future. During 1971  -  these are the latest figures available to me - the value of its agricultural and pastoral production declined slightly. Industry sources expect a slight improvement in the position but there does seem to be a question mark in relation to why there has been what one almost could call a mild stagnation in productivity in agricultural and livestock production. I think that we may find the answers to this question if we look at the international marketing situation.. If a country is exporting the major part of its crop it should look at the international scene which, of course, is really a vital factor in its considerations. 
We find that last year world production of cocoa was at a record level of l.S million long tons, an increase of 6 per cent over the previous year. Nigeria emerged as a major producer. In the same year the production of cocoa in Papua New Guinea was estimated to be 29,000 tons, which represented a significant increase in its production over the previous year - an increase of some 7,000 tons. I think the significant factor is that the price of cocoa fell quite markedly which meant that Papua New Guinea had to market more cocoa to receive virtually the same amount of money as export income. From information available to me it is not certain just what is the short term future of cocoa, but one thing is certain, and that is that it would be quite wrong for New Guinea to let up on its efforts. It should continue to develop more sophisticated techniques to achieve greater productivity per acre, because this is a commodity which New Guinea can produce effectively. 
Let us deal now with coffee. In the last 12 months world production was estimated to be approximately 70 million bags. This is considerably more than was produced in the previous year. There is a world expansion in the production of coffee. In Papua New Guinea coffee production in the last year has increased by about 10 per cent. It seems clear that it will have problems in the marketing of coffee also. The coffee marketing board recently has announced its willingness to provide financial support to growers to tide them over the present period of difficult marketing conditions. Let us now consider copra in terms of Papua New Guinea's agricultural development. Copra is an important item in the economy of Papua New Guinea, but there are growing problems in relation to the marketing of copra on world markets. A similar situation applies in relation to rubber. It is well known in the technological field that the supply of natural rubber, together with increasing amounts of synthetic rubber, will be sufficient to meet the total demand during the next couple of years. 
The remarks that I have made in relation to coffee and cocoa could apply also to tea. There has been a slight increase in exports of tea in the last few months, but it would seem that some vigorous marketing policies must be continued with regard to tea in the future. However, the overseas scene seems to be brighter in relation to tea than in the case of some of the other commodities. Overall the economy of New Guinea is in something like the same position in which Australia found itself many years ago - that is, its development depends on agriculture. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Last week the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  introduced in this House a statement concerning a review made by the Government with respect to rural reconstruction. Honourable members will recall that the Government introduced in the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill a rural reconstruction scheme involving an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States with the appropriation of $100m for financial assistance to the States over a 4-year period. Whilst the majority of the States had to introduce new administrative machinery before they could put in motion the reconstruction scheme, New South Wales was able to proceed with the scheme fairly quickly, in terms of inviting applications for assistance and making recommendations. The interesting aspect of the Minister's speech is the decision of the Government, one might say, to somersault or to change its mind with respect to this scheme and to speed it up. As the Minister well knows, this was the subject of the major criticism put forward by the Opposition when this scheme was introduced into the House last year. In fact, the belated decision of the Government to speed up the supply of reconstruction funds to the States reveals the apparent inability of the Government at that time to appreciate the seriousness of the financial position of large numbers of primary producers throughout Australia. I believe that the Government's rejection of its original legislation which was made only 12 months ago to provide $100m to the States over a 4-year period represents an admission that it was wrong about the urgent need for reconstruction which has existed for some years. During these last 12 months and certainly when the Bill was introduced the Government was told from all quarters that $100m was not enough and, spread over 4 years, it was totally inadequate. The Government dogmatically refused to alter its decision. We know the history of the scheme. We know the problems of the States and of the heartburning in some of the States because of this problem. Now the Government has reviewed the scheme and to a large degree it has met the demands of the States to speed up the supply of reconstruction funds to those producers whose need is greatest. 
Yes, under great pressure. Instead of a 4-year financial period the Government has agreed that $100m plus an extra $18m of federal funds and a $3m matching fund from Queensland will be used over 2 years and not 4 years. So in actual fact a total of $121m will now be made available over 2 years in contrast to the amount of $100m which was to be made available over 4 years. This has all taken place in the review. I again repeat that the Opposition believes that the Government has at last realised that there is a rural crisis in certain sections of primary industry. Over at least the last 12 months the Commonwealth bungling in the field of rural policies has resulted in frustration and hardship to thousands of producers whose financial affairs have crashed as a result of droughts, ruinous wool and fruit prices in the main, inequitable wheat quotas - particularly for the smaller producers - and of course the galloping forces of inflation. 
As the House knows, for the last 3 years I have argued constantly that the progressive increa.se in rural debts, which become known from time to time from official figures, demanded that immediate federal action be taken to stop the widespread collapse of many rural communities throughout Australia. When one looks at the Government's record in this field it seems that its reconstruction policies are based on what I would call a 'negative approach'. It has waited until a crisis has occurred and until large numbers of primary producers were either bankrupt or on the verge of bankruptcy or until they found themselves in an intolerable debt position from which it was impossible to recover. This is not the way to manage primary industry. The Government's refusal to face up to major economic problems when they first emerged has involved the Australian taxpayer and the farmer - particularly those farmers who had to incur more debts at ruinous rates of interest while the Government was making up its mind - in a lot of money which could have been avoided. I believe that positive agricultural policies must be concentrated on coordinating the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the sick sectors of primary industry. The overall objective must be to adjust farm production to the level of demand, both domestically and internationally, which will bring to the producer a reasonable price and a reasonable income which will support him and his family. 1 am quite dogmatic that reconstruction and rehabilitation must be progressive. It must be continuous. I am glad to see that the word 'continuous' was used by the Minister. I believe that the Government's policies should have been implemented at least 3 years ago when it was known that a rural depression would be inevitable. Treasury indicators in Australia, world economic indicators in relation to prices - particularly wool and fruit - and, of course, the need to reduce producton of wheat showed this. But the ad hoc wait-and-see attitude of the Government is to be deplored. One can say that this reconstruction is 3 years loo late. Thousands of farmers and their families together with the associated work force have been forced to leave rural areas. They have drifted to the cities, although I will be the first gladly to admit that the despair and misery in western Queensland is not quite as bad now as it was 6 months ago. This applies to Longreach, 
Charleville, Blackall and all areas of western Queensland particularly where sheep producing is the major enterprise. 
Nevertheless the fact remains that those towns can be regarded as stagnant. In many cases they are dying. I believe that after 22 years in power it is clearly an indictment of the Government that it is only implementing a reconstruction scheme now. It is well recognised throughout the developing nations that a fundamental objective of a viable economy in terms of agriculture should be an underwriting by a progressive reconstruction scheme or an adjustment scheme, as it is called in most countries. I believe that this scheme will become the forerunner of that adjustment scheme. It is needed. My principal criticism is that the scheme should have been implemented at least 3 years ago. The Government has at its disposal highly competent authorities such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to keep it continuously posted of changes taking place in the various areas of primary industry. I do not say that because I worked in the Bureau for years. I think that perhaps the BAE is the most highly competent agricultural economic adviser any country could have - not just Australia. A lot of people think that this is a statistical type of division. But this is far from the situation. It is not. It has played a major role in the development of agriculture in the post war years and up to the present time. The BAE has at its fingertips more agricultural data and records than all of the universities put together. Certainly in Australia it has more information about the economics of agricultural industries than any other Australian authority. I think that it should be used more to advise the Government when cracks suddenly occur in the foundations of an industry because it is carrying out continuous surveys into all the major industries all the time. I believe that no better authority exists in Australia to advise the Government immediately a problem occurs. 
I believe that as soon as a problem arises in a particular area continuous and progressive reconstruction is essential. The reconstruction boards in the States should swing into action to try to mend the crack. The Government should put forward policies immediately and not wait until a major crisis develops. But it seems that unless BAE recommendations are in line with the philosophies of the Government then often those recommendations are shelved. For example, my mind goes back to the McCarthy Inquiry into the dairy industry many years ago. I believe that if the Government had taken notice of the BAE and some of the recommendations of the inquiry in those days we would have a more viable dairy industry today. We would have constructive policies based on years of experience. Inquiries were made by competent agricultural economists who were assisted by the valuable work undertaken by universities and State departments. This work was undertaken in order to formulate plans for the dairy industry. But the recommendations were not accepted because of political considerations. I suppose that one has to be quite fair and say that, after all, political considerations are the overriding factor in making government decisions with respect to either secondary or primary industry. On the other hand, in the long term more thought has to be given to the reconstruction of sick agricultural industries. 
The present legislation provides for Commonwealth reconstruction action to be finalised by June 1973. There is no indication that this assistance will be continuous. Carry on finance is to be provided, but I would urge strongly that as soon as possible the Government should make a positive decision that finance for reconstruction purposes will be permanent; that there will be a flow of finance from the Commonwealth to the States year in and year out for the principal objective of adjusting agriculture in order progressively to solve the problems as they occur, not wait until major crises develop, as we have seen happen in this instance. 
A dead-end approach to reconstruction ls wrong. The scheme has to be progressive; it has to be continuous. Policies embracing debt alleviation, progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation schemes, stabilisation schemes, and schemes to control production - whether it be the 2-tier system, such as that which is proposed for the dairy industry, or the controls used in the wheat or sugar industries - are interrelated. It does not matter whether we are talking about policies for a monoculture, such as sugar, or policies for the wheatsheep zones, they are interrelated in terms of agriculture. 
The point I want to stress is that we must make certain that the economic nucleus in rural areas is viable, because if it fails the complete infrastructure fails. We of the Opposition are just as much concerned about the farmer as we are about the ancillary work force and the business work force which depends directly and indirectly on the farming community. But if the economic nucleus fails then, of course, the work force fails, and we have seen this happen so starkly in recent months or recent years with respect to the fruit industry, but particularly with respect to the wool industry in the pastoral areas of Australia. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that his Government must accept full responsibility for the shambles that have now arisen as to the legal and administrative responsibility of persons wishing to develop resources on the continental shelf and in the waters off our coast, and that this intolerable position is due- 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  started off his speech in some type of sanctimonious manner by condemning the Opposition for having the audacity to criticise the Queensland Government. Cannot the honourable member for Griffith read? ls he incapable of reading? He should look at the special report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It is obvious from his speech that he has not read a word of it. 
Mir Donald (Cameron -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I raise a point of order.  I  have read the entire book from the front to the back and it is a matter of interpretation. 
The Opposition agrees with the suggestion of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Bills should be debated cognately, because it is quite obvious that once the debate gets under way it will be a wide ranging debate covering all sorts of problems of the dairy industry and there is little point in treating all these Bills separately. First of all there are 2 main points to be made. The purpose of the major Bill is to make provision for finance to continue the stabilisation scheme. The second ancilliary Bill deals with the bounty on processed milk products, and the next lot of Bills are concerned with the extension of the dairy research scheme to cover all products produced by the dairy industry. Let me deal with the Dairying Research Bill first. The present dairying research scheme is financed by levies on manufactured products of dairy origin - butter, cheese, butter oil, butter powder and ghee. In effect it is a research levy on the manufacturing side of the dairy industry. 
The purpose of the Dairying Research Bill is to expand research activities in connection with the dairy industry to cover milk and processed and condensery products. Therefore, milk for consumption and processed and condensed products will become part and parcel of the entire research product. I believe that this is as it should be. If the dairy industry is to provide funds for research and if the Commonwealth is also to provide funds, then that research should be related to all the products produced by the dairy industry and not just on the manufacturing side. The Opposition supports the proposals before the House. In the Committee stage honourable members on this side of the House will ask some questions with respect to certain clauses of the Dairying Research Levy Collection Bill. Taken by and large, these research Bills follow the usual practice and procedure with respect to the other 9 industries which are affected by research and which have been discussed in this House over the years. 
The major Bill before the House is the important one which foreshadows proposals by the Government in relation to the next stabilisation scheme. There can be no question that the next stabilisation scheme will be one of the most important in the history of the Australian dairy industry. I think that all sections of the Parliament will agree that there has to be some very drastic rethinking as to where the dairy industry is heading, particularly as it must be accepted that, once Great Britain joins the 
European Economic Community, we will certainly lose our share of butter and cheese on that market. Anybody who suggests otherwise is a supreme optimist. Certainly there are other markets and it will be a major function of the dairy industry, assisted by the Commonwealth Government, to find and exploit those markets particularly in the South East Asian area. Many times in this House I have referred to the need for a constructive programme of selling by the dairy industry, assisted by the Commonwealth Government, to increase our sales of dairy products particularly in the lower income countries of Asia. 
The Minister has given us some details with respect to the industry's approach to the so-called 2-price quota scheme. Although it is referred to as a new proposal - it could be a new 5-year plan - in actual fact the production quota scheme for the dairy industry has been before the minds of many people for at least the last 10 years. It was one of the major issues of inquiry by the 1960 Dairy Industry Committee of Inquiry. I would assume that the Government - certainly its research advisers - has had these proposals before it for a number of years but for some reason or other the Government so far has refused to accept the decisions of the inquiry made 12 years ago. The Government has not rejected them; perhaps it has ignored them. The proposal of that Committee was that there should be a national quota plan, based on butter fat or equivalent, and that it should be a quota transferable plan. This is part and parcel of the overall plan. I notice that the Minister for Primary Industry did not refer in his second reading speech to transferable quotas. 
Yes. Various names have been given to the quota scheme, such as 'market share quotas', 'domestic allotments' and 'individual farm peaks' but they all mean the same thing, namely, that basically there is a national quota based on a butter fat equivalent. The national quota may be divided between States in relation to production over some base period of years, whatever that may be and depending on what form is finally arrived at, and this is translated then to individual farmer quota. It is essential that the quota on dairy farms should be related always to individual farms. Then it is essential that those individual quotas be related to a factory area. It is all right to talk about national transferable quotas in, perhaps, wheat but we have to be realistic and practical when we talk about transferable quotas in the dairy industry because this is somewhat similar to transferable quotas in the sugar industry. They have to be closely related to the source of processing which, in the dairy industry, would be the factory. One could not have a transferable quota scheme running wild and completely ignoring location and efficiency in the factory. So what the Opposition will be stressing when this scheme comes before the Parliament is that individual quotas have to be at the farm level and those quotas must be related to a factory area because if they are not there could be problems of efficiency in terms of the factory's capacity and efficiency. 
The Government has had plenty of experience of production quotas. The basic question which will be before the Parliament will be whether quotas are warranted in the dairy industry. There are some who would argue that there is no case for quotas. This argument has been put forward frequently by Victorians because I think they would like to see practically all of the dairying in Australia confined to that State. But there happen to be other States in the Commonwealth which are also interested in the dairy industry. The basic consideration in respect to quotas is whether there is a need to control the production of dairy products in Australia. I believe that there is. I have always argued that the most effective way to get the best possible price for the producer is to have orderly marketing and to try to relate the aggregate level of production as closely as possible to the aggregate demand so that supply and demand relationships give 2 results - a satisfactory price to the producer and a satisfactory price to the consumer. I believe this can be done. 
As costs increase every year and the cost price squeeze continues, more and more pressure is put on the smaller producer, and irrespective of how efficient he might be in terms of milk or butter fat production per cow over a particular lactation period, the fact remains that if costs con tinue to rise and the farmer has not sufficient cows because his farm is not sufficiently big, he will be forced out through amalgamation or through other processes. We have to guard against forcing out people simply because of inflation. If they are efficient and run a family farm they should be allowed to stay in the industry. One can argue on indications over the last 6 months that the world supply, particularly of butter, is such that there is no need for quotas. But one only has to read the evidence available in the last few days on productivity in the European Common Market and in other parts of the world to realise that the butter position can change quickly and there could be surpluses again. Taking into account the entry of Britain into the Common Market, it is clear that there has to be some rethinking on the dairy industry. We have to change perhaps over a time the type of products that we produce, and we have to relate those products to the Asian markets and concentrate on protein foods. 
Over a time I think we will see a very big increase in the consumption of cheese in Australia. I could be wrong but I think the indicators are there that more cheese will be consumed in Australia per capita. I believe too that we will see good markets for cheese expand in Asia, particularly in Japan. What will happen is that over a time we will see a change in the structure of the dairy industry in terms of farm management and the products finally produced at the factory for sale overseas. I have emphasised the fact that when we talk about farm quotas they have to be flexible quotas. I do not subscribe to the view that quotas must be rigid in the sense that a producer is not able to produce above his quota. I have always believed that the producer, if he wishes to gamble, should be able to produce above the quota if he desires. He is able to do it with sugar. He can also grow on assigned land what is called No. 2 pool sugar and take the risk. He can do it with wheat, and he should be allowed to do it in dairying. 
We do not know the full details but what can stop him is price for surplus production. He might not earn anything for his additional production. Under a programme of national quotas and farm quotas, if the 2 tier or 2 price scheme is later to come into operation, it is essential that although quotas are fixed per farm on a factory basis, they should also be flexible enough to allow an individual producer to produce well above that quota if he wants to take the gamble that suddenly an increase in export markets will develop. I believe that this must be written into the quota system. 
The Australian Labor Party believes also that there must be a great change from what has happened in the past in the principles of stabilisation. We have spoken of the $27m which was involved in the past. We saw this $27m distributed throughout various areas of Australia purely on a production basis. I have always argued and will continue to argue that it is not correct to distribute these funds on an across the board basis because many of the producers to whom the funds go do not need them. I believe that a more effective use of that $27m a year could be made to establish a viable Australian dairy industry. This cannot be done under the Constitution under the existing legislation because one cannot discriminate between people. However, I give warning that the Labor Party believes that there must be a change with respect to this, particularly if production quotas are introduced. The Labor Party would use section 96 of the Constitution to make grants to the States to build up and establish a viable Australian dairy industry with the ideal or objective of every dairy farmer being economically viable. We could not do it under the present system of across the board subsidies because the areas which need help most, such as northern New South Wales, some parts of Queensland and some parts of Western Australia, cannot be helped under the present system of the stabilisation scheme. However, this could be done with the provision of section 96 grants in conjunction with a production quota scheme. 
So. what I am really saying is that across me board subsidy payments have not allowed for the most effective utilisation of Commonwealth funds to build up an Australia-wide dairy industry. Most of the subsidies have gone to Victoria. 
That is what is wrong with it. If the honourable member had been listening to the debate, he would understand what I am saying. Section 96 of the Constitution, by allowing grants to be made available to the States for specific purposes, would strengthen the entire dairy industry into a viable Industry. It could do that for a start through the reconstruction and rehabilitation principles in conjunction with the marginal dairy reconstruction scheme. Over a time under a production quota scheme it would allow also for the establishment of new areas and the expansion of existing areas. That is why I stress the point that dairying is not like wheat. We must relate the milk producing or the butter producing areas to the factory which is being supplied because the capacity and the efficiency of the factory could be affected. So, under section 96 grants, money could be made available to establish new areas or to expand existing ones, whatever the case might be. 
Under this proposal for a 2-price scheme, a section 96 special grant would allow for a major measure of income stabilisation, particularly with respect to what one might call the poorer areas of production where the lactation period per cow is significantly lower than it is in the best producing areas in, say, New South Wales or Victoria. So, in effect - I see this as a major argument - this system eventually would produce an Australian dairy industry in which all the farms were viable because, under the marginal reconstruction scheme, the marginal farms would be either improved or phased out. This is the objective - to have the one industry which is economically viable. When this was established, production could be increased as the markets warranted it. The overall principles behind this scheme will be to produce at a level in close relationship to the demand at that time to achieve, as I mentioned earlier, the twin objectives of a satisfactory price for the producer and a satisfactory price for the consumer - a marriage of demand and supply. 
There has been much criticism of the dairy industry and there have been some remarkable changes in the fortunes of the dairy industry in the last 12 months or so. 
It was only a short time ago that we saw a tremendous surplus of butter held by countries in the European Common Market and the future of the dairy industry looked very bleak indeed, especially when added to that situation was the potential entry of Britain into the Common Market. The butter position changed greatly, but it is not a permanent change and I think everybody must recognise that. However, this does not mean that we do not have faith in the dairy industry. I for one have every faith in this industry. I believe that this industry has played a tremendous part in the development of Australia and that it is an industry which will continue to play a major part in the development and decentralisation of the rural areas of Australia. But because of the complex international marketing problems and because of the incessant increases in the price structure in regard to costs, there must be a tightening up with respect to the production of this commodity. 
Of course, economists oan argue that because resources are transferrable a production quota scheme should be based on a transferrable quota scheme and that there should not be a quota for States. They maintain that we should have a national quota based on butter fat relating to the domestic consumption and some particular figures for exports. This would apply over Australia as a whole. Under this suggestion there would be transferrable quotas for Australia as a whole. I do not support that argument although I accept that, from the point of view of resource use, there are very strong arguments for it in terms of pure economics. However, we must take into account the practical problems involved in the transferability of quotas between States and between areas in relation to existing communities and factories. When one takes into account all those other issues, it is essential that in the interim period, or at least in the first 10 years of the scheme's operation, if there is to be a quota system, it must be on a State basis. Under this scheme, of course, the individual farms' peaks or quotas are related on a State basis rather than on a national basis. On a national basis, people in Victoria could buy out a quota in Queensland, or vice versa, and before we knew where we were we would probably find that production in Queensland had been reduced by 50 per cent, with all the quotas from Queensland going into Victoria in this initial period. 
As I said earlier, there are strong arguments for this scheme from a pure economic point of view. I do not dispute that. However, my training is such that I think I could present strong arguments in support of it. But this must be considered from a political point of view. A political point of view is not politics within this chamber but politics in relation to people - people who are actually in production, people in towns which depend on the products of the dairy industry and the work force in those towns, whether they be working in the railway, the butter factory, the council, in the shops or wherever they might be. The nucleus is the dairy industry. I am going to argue as much as I can in the Parliament that this system must be based on a State quota and on an individual farm quota and that transferrable quotas, if implemented, must be related to a factory area. Otherwise I can see grave problems arising. I would have liked the Minister to speak - I hope he does so in his summing up - about these transferrable quotas because I firmly believe that there must be transferrable quotas. We have to take into account changing technology. We just cannot freeze an industry and say to producers: 'That is the land you produce it in and that is where you stay'. Changing technology is such that we have to take into account its effects and move with the times. We have to reduce production costs if possible by a more efficient use of resources. At the same time the warning is this: A quota in this industry is not like a wheat quota. It has to be related to a particular area like a sugar mill or a butter factory. It would be intolerable if we had transferable quotas on sugar and producers started shifting, say, the sugar industry to Cooktown which does not have a sugar mill, not that anyone would be silly enough to do that without a mill. On the other hand we could have problems by going out too far beyond the radius of a sugar mill. The same principle applies in relation to quotas in the dairy industry in relation to a dairy factory. There has to be a strict application of how and where the quotas are fixed. 
As I mentioned before, I deplore people who condemn the dairy industry. I deplore people who speak in terms of the great amount of taxpayers' money that is going into this industry and who forget that far greater amounts of tariff are probably going into areas of secondary industry on which they themselves depend. They forget about all the side issues. What we are really doing tonight is passing judgment on whether we are going to allocate Si 35m to the dairy industry over the next 5 years. There are some people who would oppose this payment on the grounds that the dairy industry does not deserve it. When one looks at the record of the dairy industry in terms of its ability to earn export income, in terms of decentralisation and in terms of noneconomic factors, we in the Parliament, I think, would support unanimously the proposal of continued assistance. But I stress the fact that the industry has to change. We do not support a continuation of the procedures of across the board subsidies if the industry is to have a 2 -price production quota scheme. The Minister has not given any indication of this either, and I think that this was one of the major deficiencies in his second reading speech. 
The Minister talked about production quotas and I agreed with practically everything he said in his explanation. But there is nothing to say how he will apply the $27m. I hope that what he will be doing is along the lines I have suggested - that is, by making a greater utilisation of section 96 of the Constitution which will enable a more effective use to be made of the subsidies of $27m a year with the express purpose of upgrading the dairy industry, by using its resources more efficiently, including the phasing out over a period of time those areas whose potential is just not there for dairy production. There are some areas which could come within this category. Whether we like it or not these areas just cannot survive under a marketing system as complex and as ruthless internationally, as has been shown in recent years, and also in terms of rising costs. The overall objective will be to utilise this $27m under a so-called stabilisation scheme as effectively as possible. That is why I harp on the fact that 
I for one believe - and I have gone into this reasonably thoroughly - that the $27m has to be used more by way of section 96 grants to the States for specific purposes for upgrading the dairy industry than by just an across the board subsidy for production quotas. 
In my few remaining minutes I will not deal in any detail with the Dairy Research Levy Collection Bill which I shall refer to in Committee. I simply conclude by saying that the dairy industry at least is one industry which has tried to diversify its markets. It has been quite conscious of the problems of the future. I think that we must give it credit for what it has already done in Asia in respect of reconstitution plants because it has made an impact there. This is something which we want to develop more and more. It is quite clear that the dairy industry cannot afford to sit back and be complacent and simply rely on the Government to provide financial assistance. It has to get out and sell its product on the world markets. It has to produce a product which the world markets want. In most cases the markets will not want butter. Those new markets will be heavily orientated towards protein milk processed products. Our products will be heavily directed towards the lower income countries that cannot afford to pay butter prices but which certainly can afford to pay for many products of the dairy industry. This is what the dairy industry has to do. It has to get out and sell on world markets. I believe it is the responsibility of the Government, irrespective of whether it be this Government or a Labor government to assist the dairy industry to become viable on an Australian basis. 
Clause 6 deals with the liability of the purchaser from the producer. The Dairying Research Levy Collection Bill follows the same principles as do other research levy collection Bills. The incidence of the levy falls on the producer and the responsibility in most part falls on the purchaser to collect that levy and pay it to the Commonwealth. Sub-clause (1.) makes it quite clear that a person who purchases whole milk or butter fat from the producer of the whole milk or butter fat is liable to pay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to any levy on the whole milk or butter fat, as the case may be. The Opposition has a query with respect to clause 6 (3.) which, as I understand it. deals with the protection of the purchaser against the non-payment of the levy by the producer. This sub-clause seems to me to be vital. If some type of contract is entered into between a factory and a producer before this clause becomes law, notwithstanding that contract or any law of a State or a Commonwealth Territory the producer is still liable to pay the levy and the purchaser is still liable to collect it and pay it to the Commonwealth. 
This sub-clause, if I understand it correctly, protects the liability of the purchaser in the event of the producer refusing to take part in the scheme or to pay the levy. I question the meaning of the words 'first provides' in sub-clause (3.) because one could assume that a prop.ducer must pay to the purchaser, whether it is a factory or some other person, money or its equivalent before he takes delivery of the butter fat or the whole milk. I presume that the words 'first provides' have a more flexible meaning than that in a situation where an arrangement is entered into between the purchaser and producer and that when the final account sale is rendered there will be a deduction to cover the levy. This would protect the purchaser in the event of the producer refusing to pay the levy. If there were some arrangement whereby the producer still refused to pay the levy, and through some mistake the purchaser had not deducted the amount of the levy, from the account sales, for example, under clause 6 (1 .) the purchaser would be liable to pay it to the Commonwealth. 1 turn now to clause 6 (8.) which applies strictly to the purchaser's responsibility to pay the levy. If there were a mistake or if a purchaser were fraudulently affected, perhaps by a producer putting something over him, the Minister, under sub-clause (1.) would have the power to discharge the purchaser's liability. I am seeking clarification of clause 6(3.) from the Minister because it would appear from a reading of this sub-clause that it is the key in regard to the protection of the purchaser when the incidence of the levy falls on the producer himself. Will the Minister clarify also the meaning of the words 'first provides' in sub-clause (3.)? Is it correct, as I have said, that it is not strictly 'first provides', although it could be interpreted that way, but rather it is flexible in the sense that if an arrangement is made between the producer and the purchaser that arrangement is in fact legal? 
I refer to sub-clause (3.) which deals with a penalty as distinct from a levy. This provision is flexible enough to allow for some misunderstanding or anomaly. Obviously one could think of some anomalies that would arise in dealing with very small producers of butter fat. It is not the intention of the Government or the authority to penalise the people who obviously are innocent within the meaning of the common law. I assume that this subclause simply gives to the Minister discretionary power to carefully examine certain cases and where there is some injustice, to allow for the remission of whole or part of an amount payable under clause 7. 
I move: 
That sub-clause (2.) be omitted. 
Sub-clause (2.) is one which is well known to the House: it is one which the Australian Labor Party always has opposed and will continue to oppose. I do not intend again to go into the reasons why we oppose such a clause because they are well known to the Minister for Primary Industry and members of the Government parties. However, the principal objection of the Opposition is with respect to a statement in the complaint of the plaintiff and this statement being evidence of a matter so averred. In other words, whatever the particular person lodging the complaint says is, virtually, evidence of the matter. 
We have always objected to this sort of provision. We believe that such a matter must be proved. We believe it should be proved to the satisfaction of the Minister himself or at least to some very responsible people before any action is taken. This clause is too rigorous in every respect of the word. We oppose it as we have opposed it in all other Bills in which it has been included 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I refer to last Friday's issue of the 'Australian Financial Review' which contained a vicious personal attack on me by a journalist who calls himself Maximilian Walsh. This attack was based on this man's inside story, so called, of events which occurred at Labor's parliamentary executive and caucus meetings last Wednesday in relation to the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill. The article condemned and rubbished me on the grounds that because a recommendation I made to the executive was not successful I took my fight into a caucus in order to achieve my view and I was defeated, which in fact means that I defied the executive. This is a lie. He stated that I lined up the environmentalists against the development fundamentalists. This is utterly untrue. He then said that when the question was put the Patterson forces - presumably that includes me - were routed. This is utterly untrue. 
 His  allegation means, of course, that I was disloyal to the executive in that by taking the fight into the caucus I defied my executive. This is maliciously false. This Maximilian Walsh, as a result of these untruths regarding my alleged conduct in the executive and in the caucus, drew the conclusion: 
At the personality level this debate marked another - and this time a very serious- setback to the political status of Rex Patterson. . . . 
Now for the truth. The facts are the reverse of Walsh's allegations. Although my recommendation to the executive was not accepted it was my responsibility to present the executive's majority decision to the caucus and support it. This I did. I presented it and supported it, as every member of the caucus knows. 1 did not. as Walsh implies, fight the executive's decision in the caucus. There was no confrontation as he alleged. Further, when my Leader and the Leader of the Labor Party in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  moved a subsequent amendment 1 accepted and supported this amendment on the grounds that I believed it to be the majority decision of the executive. At all times I was loyal to my executive. Walsh's entire story is full of untruths deliberately aimed at damaging my credibility. He also claims that a position document on this subject was circulated to executive members. This is untrue. There are further misrepresentations but I will not bore the House by referring to them. This Maximilian Walsh - they call him 'The Spiv' in departmental circles- 
This Maximilian Walsh made no attempt whatsoever to check these damaging allegations with me before he rushed into print with his article. When I challenged him last Friday afternoon as to the source of these lies, he informed me that his story simply repeated details which had been given to him about what happened in the executive and the caucus, and he had no reason to doubt the correctness of the information given to him. I believe that all decent parliamentarians will treat with contempt this sort of journalism and this journalist and particularly the person or perhaps persons who gave him these untruths. 
The House has listened with some interest to the explanations given by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in what I would regard as a most extraordinary statement in which he in fact condemned the Cabinet decision that was taken with respect to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970, condemned the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  and, what is more condemned the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  The Prime Minister virtually has completely divorced himself from the Cabinet decision at that point of time. What he has implied, and what must be sweet music to the ears of some of his followers, is that if he had been in Australia the second reading speech which introduced this Bill would not have been made. That is a most serious, extraordinary and damaging statement from a Prime Minister. To my way of thinking he has ratted on his mates. The Prime Minister was a member of the Cabinet at the time. It should be remembered that the Prime Minister who made these extraordinary statements is the person who, when he was first appointed, said that he believes in Cabinet decisions, that he always consults his Cabinet and that he always abides by his Cabinet. What he has done tonight is virtually to condemn his then Cabinet, condemn the previous Prime Minister and condemn the Minister for National Development for having the temerity to introduce this Bill into the House. That is what he has done. 
Another remarkable statement that the Prime Minister made was that he fails to see any real relationship between the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. I do not know whether the Prime Minister has studied the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill, but if he has he will know of the fundamental applied research that is to be done by the Institute as regards the sea. the sea bed, the swimming and non-swimming fish, the subsoils, the crown of thorns starfish and also marine pollution, which is a subject of importance in this day and agc. That is one of the reasons why the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has moved this contingency motion, lt is quite clear that the Territorial Sea Bill has relevance to the Institute of Marine Science. It has vital relevance. Because of the grave uncertainty with respect to the law today, both domestically and internationally, regarding offshore resources it is imperative that there are Commonwealth laws to protect the work of the Institute. The research of the Institute of Marine Science, both applied and fundamental, should be conducted within a framework of legislative certainty. There is uncertainty at the present time. Surely the Commonwealth must make laws to minimise the effects of marine pollution. The States claim that they have what they call sovereignty up to the 3-mile limit of the territorial sea. The Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill declares that the Commonwealth has the sole right or the sole sovereign control over the resources of the territorial sea, which is important not only domestically and internationally but also for the good conduct of research. 
The Leader of the Opposition has dealt also with the question of urgency. I was absolutely amazed to hear the Prime Minister state that the territorial sea legislation is not urgent. That, again, is a complete condemnation of the decision of the Cabinet of the day and of the Minister for National Development. Does the Prime Minister think that that Minister is a complete fool? Of course he does not, nor does anybody else here. The Minister made what the Opposition regarded as a well considered speech when he introduced the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. He made it quite clear in that speech that there was a great deal of urgency with respect to this matter. I point out that he said that 2 years ago. What he said on that occasion must have been approved by the present Prime Minister, but only tonight - 2 years later - the Prime Minister has virtually condemned that statement. If that is not, as J said before, ratting on your mates- 
You know what I mean,  Mr Speaker.  I am quite certain that everybody else, including the Prime Minister, knows what I mean. The Minister for National Development, in speaking about the need for urgency, said: 
In these circumstances, the Government feels that, without prejudice to the petroleum agreement and to the action that has been taken in pursuance of it, the constitutional issue should now be decided once and for all, and without delay. 
I repeat that the Minister said 2 years ago that the constitutional issue should now be decided once and for all and without delay. He went on to say: 
Until it is so decided the Commonwealth cannot either disclaim responsibility for what is done in off-shore areas or itself take appropriate action. 
Those were the words of the Minister for National Development on behalf of the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is now the Prime Minister of Australia, and those are the words which the Prime Minister apparently now denies. They were strong words and they were words which expressed the voice of the Cabinet. I should have thought that the least the Prime Minister could have done tonight was back those words and back the Minister who made that speech. But he did not do so. 
Let me refer now to the remarks of tha previous Attorney-General, a man whose judgment in these matters is highly respected on both sides of the House. In a Press statement he said: 
The Commonwealth Government is firmly of the view that it is highly desirable in Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position as to the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth and the States in off-shore areas resolved as soon as possible. 
He went on to say: 
Once this is resolved the ' Commonwealth is willing to enter into agreements for the mining of off-shore minerals, other than petroleum, and these agreements will be similar to the off-shore petroleum agreements. 
All the evidence refutes the Prime Minister's statement that there is no urgency about this matter. It refutes also his statement that there is little or no relevance to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill in the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. Of course there is relevance. Marine pollution from agricultural chemicals in the environment of Townsville itself and the proposed establishment of a nickel refinery at Townsville are quite relevant to the argument. All those matters are relevant. The Opposition is arguing tonight that it is quite wrong for the Government not to go ahead with the debate on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and pass it before making a decision with respect to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. One of the problems to be resolved concerns the actual ownership of any benefits flowing from the research itself. Tremendous research is being carried out in the world today with respect to edible organisms within the sea, and this is of great value. This is one of the avenues which has to be clarified. 
For example, one of the areas in which the Institute of Marine Science will be carrying out research concerns the crown of thorns starfish or the box jellyfish. According to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, this research will be carried out in Commonwealth waters. Surely this is relevant to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill, if this research is carried out in Commonwealth waters, as the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill asserts or declares. For the Prime Minister to say that the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill is not relevant to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill can lead to only one conclusion - that he has not even read the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, or he has not read the Bill relating to the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science. In fact, the majority of the work of this Institute will be carried out with respect to resources off the coast of Queensland. The Institute also will be working in close proximity to Torres Strait and to New Guinea. In recent weeks we have seen statements made by the Queensland Premier and by responsible people in New Guinea to the effect that it is high time that this question of the boundary between Australia and New Guinea was clarified. Surely this is an urgent matter of direct relevance to the Commonwealth, to the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and to the research that will be carried out at the Institute of Marine Science. 
I am just quoting examples to illustrate how absurd it is for the Prime Minister to suggest that there is no relevance between the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. Of course there is relevance, and it is important that this issue be clarified. Australia is in an intolerable situation. 1 suppose that it is one of more than 100 littoral countries in which this issue concerning the continental shelf has not yet been clarified. Important international conventions are being considered, and still the issue has not been clarified. Australia is supposed to attend the conferences which will consider these conventions. What sort of a view can it give? Surely it is not too much to ask that when the representatives of Australia attend international conferences they speak on behalf of Australia; they should speak for Australia, backed by Commonwealth Government decisions. But that is not so in this case. Australians attend these international conferences, but they have no authority to speak on behalf of Australia, under the existing laws relating to the States' alleged sovereignty over the resources. lt is quite clear that the States have never had sovereign powers over the resources off the coast of Australia. This was made clear by the Chief Justice,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. The States never had these powers which they allege they had. Notice of this important Bill, the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, was given at the end of 1969. It was first publicly announced by the Governor-General at the start of this Parliament, which is in its third year. It was then introduced by the Minister for National Development on behalf of the present Prime Minister. There has been a stalemate since. The Government has been frightened to act to assert or to declare its rightful authority over the off-shore resources of Australia and we have seen nothing done in that 2-year period. 
This is an important matter. For the Prime Minister to get up tonight and to make this most remarkable statement - to imply that if he were in the country at that point of time, the type of speech which was made by the Minister for National Development would not have been made - was to adopt a cowardly approach to his own Cabinet at that point of time. It completely belies the statements that he has made about Cabinet solidarity. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) -  Mr Speaker,  I gave a personal explanation as to where the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had misrepresented me. I should have added - I have now checked - that the Prime Minister said that at the time when the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill was introduced he was in Singapore with the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  In fact, he was in Singapore with the then Prime Minister on one occasion only, and that was 9 months later, in January 1971. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
He should be here. I shall direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Does the Minister really believe that the Randall report will propose anything that is not already well known by numerous other committees, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the wool industry itself? Is not the latest move of referring the Randall report back to the committee which submitted it just a deliberate stall? Is the Minister not aware that every wool growing organisation in Australia wants an authority to acquire and market its product? When will the Government display positive leadership to enact the vital legislation? Finally, will the Minister give the industry and this House an assurance that Parliament will not rise next week, or the week after or the week after that until some constructive wool legislation is enacted in this Parliament? 
The House is resuming the debate on the second reading of this Bill which was introduced into this House on 16th April 1970, more than 2 years ago. The Government has now decided that this Bill is so urgent that it has supplanted the grievance debate which would normally have taken place this morning. Last night the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that this Bill was not urgent. Now it is so urgent that it is taking precedence over the grievance debate. Australia is in an intolerable situation compared with other countries in that Australia is the only nation amongst more than 100 littoral nations which has not yet clarified the issue as to the sovereignty, jurisdiction and ownership of the resources that lie off the Australian coast. As I said last night in speaking in the debate on the Australian Marine Science Institute Bill, when there are important international conferences on matters of this kind surely the most important thing is for the representatives of Australia to be able to speak at these conferences with one voice on behalf of Australia - which of course means the Commonwealth Government of Australia - in, order to give an Australian viewpoint with respect to the control and ownership of these resources. 
The Opposition will not accept in any way the statement made by the Prime Minister last night that this is not an urgent matter or that it is not a matter of vital imporance. It is a matter of national importance. It is a matter of vital importance. It concerns the progressive development of Australia's valuable resources located off the Australian coast. It is directly concerned with the mineral, oil and natural gas development around Australia. It is directly concerned with the control of fisheries. It is concerned with the control of the resources and organisms in our waters which are valuable in scientific research and thus of value to this nation. It is directly concerned with marine pollution. 
In recent days we have seen an issue which is becoming more relevant and that is the problem of the boundary between Australia and New Guinea. As honourable members well know, in one place the border between Papua New Guinea and Australia is 100 miles from the coast of Australia but only 200 yeards from the coast of Papua New Guinea. Close to the coast of Papua New Guinea are islands which I assume are under the jurisdiction of the Queensland Government. The question remains as to what is to happen to the inhabitants of those islands. What is to happen to the ownership of the land itself and the seas that surround those islands in close proximity to Papua New Guinea? Surely these are items in relation to which the Commonwealth has jurisdiction to make decisions internationally and domestically. At this stage we cetainly do not want to become bad friends with Papua New Guinea on issues like this. We are becoming bad friends with Papua New Guinea if one takes into account statements being made by the Queensland Premier with respect to this boundary. This is one issue today which illustrates the need for clarification of this most important item. 
The Government of the day, under the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  accepted the responsibility to raise this issue with the States and to clarify it, if necessary, in the courts. If this had been done and this Bill had been proceeded with, of course we would not be in the position in which we are today. I do not accept the statement made by the previous Attorney-General that because the Opposition was playing politics the Bill was being delayed. It is the Government of the day which has the responsibility of making certain that legislation is enacted through the Parliament. We all know the story behind the stalling practices that have been carried on since this Bill was introduced. The right honourable member for Higgins has given notice of a contingency motion. I would have preferred him to put into the contingency motion also the words and finalised*. I understand that the motion means that debate on the Bill will resume when the next appropriation, which of course is the Budget, is made. But 'resumed' means what is being done here. 
The debate has been resumed, and somebody on the Government side will move that the debate be adjourned. This matter has to be finalised. It should be finalised this week. It is being introduced into the Parliament again now, and surely it can be finalised; but it is obvious that the debate will be adjourned. The Opposition does not have the numbers to prevent the debate being adjourned, and the next time the Bill will be brought on again in the Parliament will be at the time of the next appropriation, which will be the Budget. I hope that the right honourable member for higgins intends the word 'resumed' in his contingency motion to mean 'resumed and finalised', which means that a vote is taken in this House, the Bill goes to the Senate and a vote is taken there. 
No  speaker  on the Government side, except the Prime Minister last night, has said that this matter is not urgent. What puzzles me now is what attitude the present Prime Minister is taking with respect to this legislation, because from his pronouncements last night it would seem to me that he is opposed to this legislation. I find unforgivable the statements he made last night in which he denigrated the second reading speech of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  on the ground that he did not see it. I suggest that if he had been here at that point of time the second reading speech would not have been altered in any way. A Prime Minister who always professes to be a Cabinet man, a government man, should not argue as the Prime Minister did last night. There is no question on this side of the House and I believe in the minds of many members, if not a majority of members, on the Government side that this is a vital issue of national importance. It is an issue which has to be clarified. 
The Bill asserts and declares Commonwealth jurisdiction over all the resources mentioned. Violent arguments and violent opposition have been put up by the States. It is only natural that the States themselves would object to this legislation. We saw almost a comedy when the States were attempting to reject the Commonwealth's claim and to stand over the Commonwealth when these issues were being discussed with the previous Prime Minister, the previous Attorney-General and the pre sent Minister for National Development. Some of the State Ministers behaved almost with frenzy in their attacks, underhand and public, on the Commonwealth for trying to declare that the Commonwealth has the sovereign rights over these off-shore resources. The unfortunate part is that the Government of the day agreed at that point of time, and the Government has agreed from then on, not to proceed with the Bill. I am not and never profess to be a lawyer, but one only has to read the evidence put forward by people whose judgment one can respect to come to the conclusion, as it would seem to me, that at no time did the States have sovereign rights over the off-shore resources. The best evidence I can give is a quotation from a report on a judgment by Barwick C. J. and Windeyer J. in which they express the views that the territory of the States ends at low water mark. By 'States' I mean the States, of the Commonwealth. The report goes on: 
As colonies and as States they have never had sovereignty over off-shore waters to the 3-mile limit. The Imperial Government attained sovereignty over these waters and retained it until Australia became an independent nation state, some time at or since the Statute of Westminster of 1931. The Commonwealth, at some time following this, acquired sovereignty over these waters and still has it. 
That is the opinion of those 2 learned gentlemen. I would believe that this is also the opinion and the decision of the Cabinet that was responsible for this Bill's introduction. Surely this is the logical and the sensible conclusion that every Australian must accept. It is the Commonwealth that has clear sovereign title over the off-shore resources. This was apparently accepted by the Cabinet and by the Government parties 2 years ago. It was dealt with in the statement made by the Governor-General of Australia at the beginning of this Parliament. The Bill was introduced as a matter of some urgency by the Minister for National Development acting on behalf of the then Foreign Minister, the present Prime Minister. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The Government's view is that it would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position solved as soon as practicable. 
To me that is the key to this whole debate. That was said 2 years ago. I do not think anybody would disagree with that. If he does he would not be disagreeing on the grounds of logic as regards Australias future development. The Minister went on: 
In these circumstances, the Government feels that, without prejudice to the petroleum agreement and to the action that has been taken in pursuance of it, the constitional issue should now be decided once and for all, and without delay. Until it is so decided, the Commonwealth cannot either disclaim responsibility for what is done in off-shore areas or itself take appropriate action. 
That is right. Honourable members will remember that when the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill was being debated in this House my colleagues the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and also the then Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and other honourable members pointed out the dangers which will exist in that legislation until this whole area, with respect to State or Commonwealth sovereignty over the areas in question, is clarified. The part of the Minister's second reading speech which 1 have mentioned contains strong words. They are sensible words. They are logical. This is what has upset the Opposition and some honourable members opposite most of all. The logic is there in every sense of the word, to go ahead at all possible speed to clarify this issue. Let me quote also from the statements made by the Minister for National Development and the previous Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes).  These statements which appeared in the joint communique of the 2 Ministers were again factual as regards the logic and common sense. They said: 
The Commonwealth Government is firmly of the view that it is highly desirable in Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position as to the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth and the States in off-shore areas resolved as goon as possible. 
They are solid, sound facts and we agree with them. Again they said: 
Once this is resolved the Commonwealth is willing to enter into agreements for the mining of off-shore minerals other than petroleum and these agreements would be similar to the off-shore petroleum agreements. 
We disagree with the particular relevance of petroleum, but this is not the issue at the present time. The issue is simply that this matter needs to be clarified so that we can proceed with legislation relating to mineral exploration and the development of those resources. Even before that official joint communique, the Minister for National Development made a public statement on 26th March 1970 in which he said: 
The Government took the decision that lt should seek to settle once and for all the doubts that now exist by the introduction of Commonwealth legislation in this field. 
That was over 2 years ago. He gave reasons which I believe are sound. The reasons that the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  and Cabinet took into account were sound reasons from the point of view of Australia's present and future development and were backed also by the opinions of people who must be respected. For example, the Commonwealth Government took into account a view expressed 2 years ago by the Past  President  of the International Court of Justice - that apart from inland waters, sovereign rights over the seabed and natural resources of the continental shelf vested exclusively in the Commonwealth from low water mark outwards. That was the decision of  Sir Percy  Spender. It is a decision which must be respected. 
In the High Court judgment in the cass of Bonser v. La Macchia in August 1969 the 2 judges stated firm views that in respect of the sea bed the Commonwealth had consitutional rights from the low water mark. In a discussion with the States the Minister for National Development informed the States that these and other considerations had led the Government to take the action proposed. The Minister said: 
The Commonwealth Government believed that resolution of the constitutional issue as to where jurisdiction in off-shore areas lay, had become a necessity in the national interests. 
Surely that is correct. That is what we are debating today, whether in the national interest this legislation should be enacted. Although the politics of the situation are that the Commonwealth Government somehow has to appease the States, the Commonwealth Government should be giving positive leadership to this nation. This is a Bill of national importance. The Government has already introduced the Bill. It has had discussions with the States. I fail to see how any more discussions with the States will alter in any way the logic of the 
Commonwealth Government's Bill that is before the House today, unless the Government wishes to amend it in some way. It is the underlying logic and the national need that are important. 
Soon another important convention will be held, and if this position is not resolved the Australian representatives will again go to the convention - there can be as many as 4 or 5 conventions within the parent convention - and will not be speaking with clear voices on behalf of the nation. At the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea in Geneva in 1958 there were 4 conventions which were highly relevant to this Bill - the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone, the Convention on the High Seas, the Convention on Fishing and Conservation of the Living Resources of the High Seas and the Convention on the Continental Shelf. When the next convention takes place, after the experience Australia has had since 1958, surely our representatives will be able to go there and speak on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
The role of the Commonwealth in this Bill is not to oust the States as regards revenue from these resources. One of the principal arguments that has been used is that Big Brother - the Commonwealth - is going to go in and take most of the revenue from these areas. There are arguments for it but, of course, there are political arguments against it. What this Bill does is assert the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to these resources and to police them in the best interests of the nation. We agree with that. We have seen evidence already, in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill which was passed by the Parliament that there can be a compromise with respect to revenues earned and the management of these resources by the States. This is not new. In the United States of America this was also allowed with respect to some States having rights to exploit, explore and develop oil and natural gas resources off their own coastlines. But there is no question as to who has the exclusive jurisdiction. This would be a federal jurisdiction of the United States Government. 
It is interesting to note what has happened in Canada in recent times. On 17th April 1970 the Secretary of State for 
External Affairs, the Honourable Mitchell Sharp, introduced the legislation into the Canadian Parliament. This was of vital interest to Australia because it sets certain precedents. This legislation concerned 2 matters. Firstly, it provided for the establishment of the territorial sea of Canada at 12 miles instead of the existing limit of 3 miles. The result of the implementation of this legislation was the elimination of the existing 9-mile fishing zone. This is of great relevance to Australia which is in almost the same position. The Canadian legislation extended the territorial sea from 3 miles to 12 miles. This meant that Canada did not have to declare a fishing zone of 9 miles. Australia has a fishing zone of 12 miles, which is 9 miles out from the territorial sea of 3 miles. 
Canada has progressed further and further in this field and we are still stagnant. The second amendment introduced by the Honourable Mitchell Sharp was that the Canadian Government, by Order in Council, would create exclusive Canadian fishing zones comprising areas of the sea adjacent to the coasts of Canada. This is exactly what we want. We want some clarification of the position in relation to the waters of the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Great Barrier Reef. Canada has passed legislation relating to exclusive fishing zones. If Australia had progressed only half as far as Canada has we could have asserted and declared our ownership of the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Great Barrier Reef. But as things stand at the moment we are no further advanced than we were, one might say, in 1859 when Queensland became a separate State. This is a completely intolerable situation. 
The Honourable Mitchell Sharp on behalf of. the Canadian Government said: 
There are a number of reasons why the Government is proposing to extend its territorial sovereignty from 3 to 12 miles. Basically, the reason is that the limited fisheries jurisdiction which Canada at present exercises over the outer 9-mile zone is no longer sufficient to protect the full range of Canada's vital coastal interests. 
The same thing applies to Australia. The Honourable Mitchell Sharp continued: 
The 12-mile territorial sea would have the following advantages: 
It would provide the comprehensive jurisdictional basis which Canada requires to enforce anti-pollution controls outside Arctic waters off Canada's east and  west coasts up to 12 miles from the baselines of Canada's territorial sea, rather than merely, 3 miles as at present. 
The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs went on to say: 
Cb) It will permit Canada to expedite the conclusion of negotiations with the European countries which have been permitted to continue their fishing activities in Canada's 9-mile fishing zone. 
This is of great relevance to Australia with respect to the Japanese, the Formosans and other people who wish to fish in the. 9- mile waters outside the territorial sea and in the waters, of course, over the continental shelf. All of these matters are relevant. The third reason for the Canadian action is of great significance. The Honourable Mitchell Sharp said: 
It will further protect Canada's security interests by permitting Canada to exercise greater control over the movement of foreign ships. 
Surely these 3 reasons that prompted the Canadian Government to pass legislation to extend the, territorial seas from 3 miles to 12 miles are valid. When a comparison is made between the position of Canada and that of Australia in light of these reasons then the. Bill which is before this House is more than valid. 
The other major reason for the Canadian Bill was, of course, to delineate exclusive fishing zones, particularly with respect to what are called inland waters under Commonwealth or Federal control. An analogy can be drawn between those inland waters and the waters of the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Great Barrier Reef. Therefore I have some doubts, and I will listen with great interest to the lawyers who will talk on this Bill, as to whether in fact the Bill goes far enough. It seems to me that this Bill is really a Bill of assertion or a Bill of declaration. Of course, clause 5 of the Bill is the key.I would have thought purely from a layman's point of view that if one were to test a case in the High Court there would have to be some infringement of an Act. I cannot see that one can just say that because this Bill asserts something it can automatically be tested. I would have thought that the Bill should have made the declaration that, for example, the title to the territorial seas be vested in the Commonwealth so that automatically the Commonwealth would have the power to go ahead and make laws with respect to these resources. Because the Commonwealth had this power it would also mean that there would be some sections in the Act relating to penalties. If laws were asserted and penalties were included in the Act - for example penalties relating to royalties under the control of the particular Minister - this surely would be provocation, and that provocation would mean that the States would have to go to the High Court. I believe that the omission of provisions of this sort is a shortcoming of the Bill. 
However, this does not alter the fact that the Bill is of vital, national importance. I believe that every member of the Opposition, and I hope every supporter of the Government, will completely disagree with the statement made last night by the Prime Minister that this is not an urgent Bill. As I have said, it is a Bill of national importance. I hope that this Bill is not delayed until the Budget session. I hope that it will be debated at length today and that some finality will be reached. As I have said, we can have all the discussions in the world with the States but they will not agree with this Bill. 
I move: 
Omit 'the next sitting', insert 'a later hour this day'. 
Every  speaker  who has participated in this debate today, the first debate on this Bill - a Bill which is of national importance - since it was introduced more than 2 years ago, stressed the national significance of the Bill and the national urgency of the Bill. Every member on the Government side who took part in the debate, particularly the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  gave their reasons for the urgency of this Bill. Those 3 members on the Government side in particular reiterated time and time again the national significance and urgency of this Bill. They gave reason after reason for its urgency. They dealt with the aspects of fishing, marine pollution, the problem of the boundaries between Australia and Papua New Guinea and Indonesia, the problem of international law and the problem of Australia speaking with one voice at the next international conference on the law of the sea. They gave reason after reason why this Bill must be proceeded with. The only argument that has been put up for further delaying this Bill is that it would give the Commonwealth time to negotiate with the States. The Government has had 2 years to negotiate with the States. It is obvious that a matter of great urgency exists. 
The honourable member for Berowra stated in clear terms that the Commonwealth is not taking anything from the States at all. It is simply declaring its sovereignty over the resources off the coast of Australia, nothing more than that. What is there to negotiate with the States? I am in agreement with what the honourable member for Berowra says. I am now beginning to worry, in view of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said, whether there is to be a compromise by way of an amendment which will' give us legislation along the lines of the infamous mirror petroleum legislation. This must be opposed. The honourable member for Berowra made it abundantly clear that this type of legislation is not sound legislation. 
There are salient reasons why this Bill should be proceeded with. There is no reason why this Bill should not be debated and passed today. It is sheer humbug to say that the Commonwealth is to negotiate with the States, because what is there to negotiate with the States? The States will simply be allowed to put forward a political point of view in an attempt to achieve a compromise as they did with the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. The Foreign Minister has said that only one government can competently put forward Australia's case at the next international conference on the law of the sea, and that is the Government of Australia. 
A wrong concept has emerged in the debate. There seems to be a feeling amongst some members on the Government side that if this Bill is supported and the Opposition's arguments are supported this will bring down the Government. Nothing of the sort. We are simply supporting the Bill that the Government itself introduced into the Parliament. We are simply supporting the arguments which every  speaker  put up today in support of the Bill's urgency. What we are saying to the Government ls: Let us stop the nonsense, the stalling and humbug and get this important and national Bill through this Parliament today. 
It was very clear that the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt),  who just interjected, did not rise in support of the proposal to discuss this matter. Apparently he believes that the Country Party, and his own Government, have given positive leadership to the wool industry on the question of the acquisition of wool. It must be patently clear to the rural industries of Australia that this Government is incapable of giving positive leadership to the Australian wool industry. The Government has now embarked upon a deliberate policy of procrastination and stalling, aimed at delaying any positive decisions with respect to the most dynamic question in rural Australia today, namely the establishment of a wool marketing authority to acquire, to appraise and to market the wool clip on behalf of the Australian wool growing industry. 
The peculiar behaviour of the Government in consistently refusing to make decisions, and in appointing yet another top level committee to look into the problems of wool marketing, illustrates its incompetence. A government is elected by the people to make decisions. This Government has had at least 2 years to consider the problems of wool marketing and to make a positive decision on the need for acquisition and on the future of the wool auction system in Australia. Reforms and new policies are urgently required. The Government has had before it considered reports and recommendations from both independent and industry organisations. It has had at its displosal the most knowledgeable government agency in Australia on the economic structure of wool marketing, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It has had access to the top marketing and finance brains of the Commonwealth in the Department of Primary Industry, the Treasury and the Department of Trade. In addition, the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the so-called parliament of the wool industry, has carefully considered this matter and has made constructive recommendations to the Government. The Government has had the benefit also of the views of wool growing and marketing organisations throughout Australia. 
Despite the availability over the past two years of this wealth of advice from the industry, from government agencies and from independent committees, the McMahon-Anthony Government still refuses to make positive decisions on wool marketing and on the acquisition of the Aus tralian wool clip. Instead, the great decision it has made up to date has been to establish yet another committee. The Government is so incompetent that it cannot even make a positive decision on the amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission, an obvious and urgent requirement for streamlining wool marketing in Australia. 
Not only is the Government incapable of giving leadership, but also the Parliament is being treated with contempt by the refusal of the Prime Minister and his Ministers to make a considered statement in this House as to what the Government has decided up to this point of time, after 2 years of consideration, about acquisition. Parliament is being treated with garbled newspaper reports about Country Party and Liberal Party in-fighting, and the warriorlike attitude outside Parliament of the Minister for Trade and Industry, the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  is in marked contrast to his attitude in Parliament, which is one of subservience to the Prime Minister. 
This is not good enough. What are the preliminary recommendations, for example, of the Randall Committee? Surely after 2 years of deliberations and stalling the Government has made some progress on whether or not it is desirable to acquire the wool clip; and surely after 2 years it has some positive views on acquisition. Or is it a fact that the Government is in a hopeless position, incapable of sound and constructive decision on wool acquisition? Wool growing is Australia's most important single industry. Its past and present contributions to the growth of Australia economically, and to the development of the nation, are of great magnitude. Its future is clouded with deep uncertainty and the Government, by refusing to make a positive decision and to give leadership on this vital marketing reform, is contributing greatly to wool's misfortunes and the widespread uncertainty which presently exists. Instead of making wool marketing reform one of its highest priorities, the Government has relegated it to one of the lowest priorities. 
Let not the Government waste time in the House this afternoon parroting off its policies on wool deficiency payments, the 
Australian Wool Commission activities or the price averaging plan policy. These are temporary stop-go policies only. They are not necessarily reliable or permanent machinery for stabilising the wool situation in this country, and they are not based on the solid foundation of permanency. The basic issue before the House today is whether or not the Government supports the establishment of a wool marketing authority to acquire and to market the Australian wool clip. Does it support this proposition or does it not, after 2 years of deliberations? All we have had has been a wall of frustration and indecision, buckpassing and promises. 
What this nation desperately needs, not only in wool marketing but also in other economic matters, is some semblance of leadership. At present, the Government is nothing more than a rabble, torn apart by dissension on this most important matter. 
For 2 years the Australian Labor Party has been hammering the Government to take action to establish a statutory authority to acquire and market the exportable wool clip. Every major wool grower organisation in Australia now supports the principle of orderly marketing through acquisition of the wool clip. The auction system of selling wool in Australia has failed the wool grower. The auction system is archaic and inefficient and should be progressively scrapped. By continuing with this system, the Government is condoning inefficiency; it is perpetuating the problem. Because the Government has strong political allegiances to the major wool broking houses and hire purchase and pastoral companies, it has embarked on a deliberate policy of stalling. The Liberal Party, as is well known and as was certainly exposed last night by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  is bitterly opposed to any interference with the auction system. It is prepared to sacrifice the economic livelihood of thousands of traditional small wool growers and their families in order to support powerful wool broking interests and an inefficient auction system. 
It is obvious also that the Australian Country Party is too weak to buck the Liberals for fear of widening the serious dissension which already exists within the Government. The Country Party is most vocal outside the Parliament - in the electorates - about its wicked partner, the Liberal Party. But, when it comes to positive decisions in this House and positive action in the Parliament, every member of the Country Party is completely subservient to the dictates of the Liberal Party and the Liberal Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Despite the fact that the Prime Minister and his Liberal Party cohorts are doing consistent damage to the overall economy of this nation, serious blame must also fall on the shoulders of members of the Country Party for their weakness in not taking the responsibility of leadership in the matter of wool. The honourable member for Moore is most vocal in his electorate and elsewhere outside the Parliament in condemning his own leaders. I hope that he would be taking part in this debate this afternoon in order to make his statements in the Parliament. If he liked to ask for leave to make a statement in order to repeat and to elucidate the allegations that he made last night, the Opposition would have no hesitation in giving him leave to make such a statement. 
Two years ago, when I announced Labor's policy on wool marketing, of which the central theme was the establishment of a statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the exportable wool clip, Government speakers ridiculed Labor's proposals and the principle of acquisition. Now, of course, the wool industry throughout the nation has stated in categorical terms that acquisition is urgently required and is the key to the marketing needs of wool on the international scene. Wool growers have seen the efficiency of the international marketing of wheat and sugar and they want it also for wool. But still the Government refuses to make a decision, obviously because of its political allegiance to the powerful vested interests who bitterly oppose a governmentbacked marketing organisation. lt is clear that the Government is blind to the current facts of political life throughout the wool growing and rural electorates of Australia. The LiberalCountry Party coalition is facing political oblivion in wool growing electorates because of its arrogance and its contemptuous treatment of the entire wool industry - mainly because it refuses to make positive decisions. The wool industry in the producing areas does not mean just wool growers; it embraces entire rural communities of producers, businessmen and employees. It is not just the wool growers who are condemning this Government. It is being condemned also by the workers, the shopkeepers and the trading interests throughout the electorate whose economic livelihood is tied to the wool towns throughout Australia. Does anyone in the Parliament really believe that the Randall Committee will come up with anything which is new or which has not been thoroughly evaluated before? Of course it will not. It is simply a delaying tactic which should not be tolerated. It is a tactic to hoodwink the wool growers of Australia. 
I want to make it perfectly clear that Labor fully supports the establishment of a statutory marketing authority to acquire and market the Australian wool clip. Labor's policy is centred on 5 fundamental points: Firstly, the amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission to form the nucleus of a single statutory marketing authority under the control of a full time chairman; secondly, a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the Australian wool clip on behalf of wool growers; thirdly, a continuous and progressive reconstruction and development scheme to assist in the solution of production problems and in the solution of production problems and in the streamlining of the physical methods of selling wool, including objective measurement; fourthly, the payment of tariff compensation, if justified, to offset the serious net cost disabilities incurred in the production of wool for export as a result of essential high tariffs in Australia; and, lastly, a fully elected Australian Wool Industry Conference to represent wool growers in all wool producing areas of Australia. Those are the 5 basic points on which the Labor Party's wool policy has been formulated, and it has been in existence for 2 years. 
I announced it 2 years ago in the Parliament and, if the Minister for Primary Industry wants to confirm it, he can look through the record of the debates. But where is the Government's wool policy? That is the most pertinent question today. Firstly, of course, we know that the Government was opposed to the acquisition of the wool clip. I can only assume - with other members of the Opposition and, I believe, most other members of this Parliament - that the Government still is irrevocably opposed to acquisition. Because of the Government's silence in this matter, every wool growing organisation in Australia is full entitled to make the same assumption, namely, that the Government is opposed to acquisition. If the Government is not opposed to acquisition, let the Minister, when he follows me in this debate, state the case of the Government and where it stands on the acquisition of the wool clip. 
The House should not complete this session until the Government has made and announced in this Parliament a definite decision on wool marketing reform and has told the industry and the nation whether it will legislate for a statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the wool clip. The indecision and uncertainty of this Government cannot be tolerated any longer by the wool growing industry and, because of the importance of this industry to the nation, by the nation in general. Because of the great importance of wool, the wool growing industry and the nation are fully entitled to a decision by this Government - a decision based on positive leadership, not the negative leadership we have had with respect to the wool industry over the last 2 years. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Dawson moving: That this House condemns the action of the honourable member for Angas for releasing a Press statement at approximately 5 p.m. today announcing a Government cut in the wine excise based on a confidential ministerial statement which was embargoed until the commencement of the speech by the Minister for Customs and Excise at 8.37 p.m. tonight. 
I will be quite brief because the facts are clear. The facts are here in these 2 documents. One is a document labelled 'For Press - embargoed until the commencement of the speech by the Minister for Customs and Excise'. The other document is entitled 'Wine Industry - A statement by the Honourable Ian Sinclair, M.P., Minister for Primary Industry'. The Minister for Customs and Excise commenced bis speech at 8.37 p.m. Then it would be assumed that the embargo would be released and this document allowed to be made public by the Press. At 5 o'clock this afternoon a Press statement by  Mr G.  O'H. Giles, M.H.R. for Angas was headed 'Government cuts wine excise by 50 per cent'. 
Yes, it is true. That is not only a contempt of the Minister for Primary Industry and of the Minister for Customs and Excise, but it is also a contempt of this Parliament. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In the second reading debate I referred to the Schedule to this Bill. The Schedule purports to be an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. I have not yet received any explanation of the actual working of the Schedule. Normally in development projects an agreement is signed by the Prime Minister and the Premier or their respective representatives. This is some type of open-ended agreement and one can only assume that it has been agreed to by the States and the Commonwealth. Let me illustrate my point by a practical example. Last Saturday a State election was held in Queensland. Paragraph (c) of the Schedule to this Bill reads:  the Commonwealth  and  the Stales have agreed to  implement  the further programme. . . . 
That is a statement of fact. It says that the Stales have agreed to do something. A State election was held a month ago in Tasmania and there was a change of government. 1 assume that the new Labor Government in that Stale has agreed to this proposal. A State election was held in Queensland last Saturday. If there had been a change of government in that State how could anyone say that the new Government- 
-I accept that, but in view of the blatant gerrymander in Queensland how can we expect it? The point I make is that if there had been a change of government in Queensland how could one assume that there has been agreement? Normally before a Bill comes into this 
Parliament agreement reached between the Commonwealth and the States and the Bill then comes before the Parliament for ratification of the agreement. There has always been some doubt about whether the Parliament has the right to ratify agreements. 1 referred to this matter, as 1 recall, about 5 years ago and asked whether this Parliament could alter the agreement. This is an agreement between the Commonwealth and the Slates, between the Prime Minister and the respective Premiers. It is not an agreement made between the Parliament and the States. This Schedule defines 'the State Treasurer' as the Treasurer of the State. If there were a change of government in a State there would be a change of Treasurer. I believe these are practical questions and honourable members are entitled to know the answers. First of all, why has this agreement not been agreed to by the Slates? Secondly, what would have happened had there been a change of government last Saturday in Queensland? Thirdly, has the new Labor Government in Tasmania agreed to this Schedule? These are important questions. This Schedule commits the Commonwealth to an agreement with the States and it can only be assumed that all States have agreed to it. If it had been signed by the Premier of Queensland some time before last Saturday. 1 would assume that it would be valid. 
It is not often that there is an open-ended agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. It is essential for the House to have some information on this matter. I raised this point in the second reading debate. Assuming there was a change in a State government, what would happen if an amendment to the Schedule was made by the incoming government? Would it have to come back to this Parliament. These are all practical problems which I have never noticed previously when dealing with development projects involving agreements between the Commonwealth and the States. Agreements are reached between the Prime Minister and the Premiers before they reach this Parliament. 
Following upon the point made by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  about the exchange of letters between the Prime Minister and the State Premiers, I agree that this is the usual practice. However, there is still the problem that a Premier of a State can agree to the proposal on behalf of his Government, and in most instances that action will be ratified by the particular State Parliament. In Queensland there is an extraordinary situation, where Parliament sits for only a few months of the year. Parliament went into recess there last December and members will not appear on the scene again until next August. Had there been a change of Government last weekend I assume that the letter signed by the Premier of Queensland would not bind the new government, for the agreement would not have been even debated or discussed in the Parliament in order that it could be ratified. That is my point. I recognise the problem created by the Constitution, that it is necessary to have this drawn out process of requiring the Premiers to agree on behalf of their governments and, in turn, for the agreements to be ratified. There could be a situation like the one to which 1 referred earlier, where the Premier of Tasmania agreed to the proposal and later there was a change of government. The new Premier might not necessarily reach a similar conclusion to that of his predecessor. The same could have occurred in Queensland had there been a change of government. Therefore, my original point holds good. I still wonder why it has taken so long for this measure to get into Parliament. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
This Bill relates to agreements between the Commonwealth and the States in connection with softwood forestry. The Bill consists of 4 clauses, which are concerned with the execution of the agreement, and a schedule, which is the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. The main purpose of the Bill is to make provision for expansion of softwood plantings in Australia in accordance, one can assume, with arrangements which have already been agreed to by the States and the Commonwealth. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, but it does intend to move an amendment. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
Whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, this House deplores the Government's failure to prepare and publish, in consultation with the States, n national plan for - 
the full use and development of Australia's forest resources; and 
the conservation of existing hardwood forests and associated flora and fauna in relation to softwood plantings. 
The first point I want to make is with respect to the agreement itself. Normally one would expect that some indication would be given that the States had agreed to the conditions laid down in the agreement. Usually this is an agreement which has been signed formally by the Prime Minister, or somebody acting on his behalf, and by the Premier or Premiers of the State or States concerned, or their representatives. One can only assume in the first instance that this agreement is in fact the final agreement. The only assumption we can make if we are to debate this Bill intelligently is that the respective Parliaments will give full backing to the Ministers represented on the Australian Forestry Council to enter into the agreement contained in the Schedule to this Bill. 
The other point I want to make is with regard to the timing. This Bill makes provision for a second 5-year programme, to commence from 1st July 1971 - almost 12 months ago - and to be effective until 1976. This is somewhat similar to the Act of 1967, which made provision for the first 5-year agreement to commence from 1st July 1966. One puzzling aspect of this is that in his second-reading speech when introducing the first plan, the Minister stated that there would be a review of this scheme, obviously, to make provision for any further arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. What I want to know is this: Why did it take so long before the Parliament was informed of the second agreement? Why was not the review finalised before the expiry of the first agreement? Why was not the second 5-year plan brought into this Parliament before the commencing date - in other words, before 1st July 1971? Why has it been brought in later? One must assume that a lot of arrangements are being made between the Commonwealth and the States unknown to this Parliament. After all, who up to this point of time has authorised the expenditure that has taken place in the past 12 months with respect to this programme? 
Members of the Australian Labor Party are not opposing the Bill. We are simply raising certain key objections with respect to the measure, particularly on how it is worked out in practice. Usually, before money is made available for any development project, the proposal has to run the gauntlet of this Parliament; it has to be debated and subjected to any criticisms or amendments that may be thought necessary. It took almost 12 months from the expiry of the first 5-year plan for this Bill to hit Parliament. This seems to be the type of arrangement in which the Government is becoming more and more involved. It is waiting till the death-knock before making decisions. We have the same problem arising now with the beef roads programmes. There have been 2 of those programmes and it is high time another decision was taken with respect to their continuation or otherwise. Already men, with their machines, are facing uncertainty in respect of their movements and employment because no public decision has been taken on the continuity of that development project. 
We see the same thing with water resources. Although we have a Si 00m programme to develop water resources, it is almost 2 years since a decision was taken with respect to further projects. Surely that is not the way to run a government: a government should run smoothly and decisions should be taken. Here is an example. A Bill is introduced in the Parliament in May 1972 to make provision for an agreement that started on 1st July 1971. As 1 asked before, what has happened in the intervening period? Who has authorised the finance between the Commonwealth and the States? What would happen if the Parliament threw out this agreement? All these objections are relevant, and I have raised them because I think this is not the way to run a government properly. A decision should be taken before the expiration of an agreement, and not 12 months later. 
The objects of the Bill are quite common and acceptable as development criteria. They are, firstly, to expand a project - in this case softwood plantings - in an attempt to decrease our dependence on other countries for imports of the relevant timber products. The second criterion is the development one - to bring about development of a resource that will provide balanced development and decentralisation. These are the twin criteria adopted in almost every federal development project; either the earning of export income or the substitution of our own products for imports, and the encouragement of development and decentralisation. As I will show, reafforestation is in fact one of the most intensive forms of rural development. This might surprise many people, but statistics disclose that the average employment in reafforestation projects is approximately one person to 40 to 50 acres. There are not many primary industries apart from market gardening and similar types of horticulture - that can match that figure. Apart from being an intensive rural industry, reafforestation is making an important contribution to development and decentralisation; it is building up the population in rural areas. 
Because of this agreement the States have been able to increase the area of government softwood plantings from approximately 528,000 acres in 1966 to approximately 793,000 acres in 1971. The total planting programme for this second 5- year plan is approximately 273,000 acres, which is a little higher than what was achieved in the first 5-year period, despite the fact that the rate of planting per annum will be lower than the acreage actually planted in the last year of the first 5-year programme. The area to be financed by a Comomonwealth contribution will be approximately 125,000 acres. During the last 50 years there has been increasing concern about the slow rate of growth of Australia's timber resources and development, particularly in the types of timber which we are forced to import. Under the Constitution forestry is a State matter except in the Territories, including the Australian Capital Territory, lt would seem that for many years it did not rate as an important industry. Nationally it soon became clear to the Treasury and people concerned with the preparation of budgets that we had here an industry which we must develop otherwise this nation would be faced with substantial imports of timber. We had resources in terms of labour, land and capital. It was a question of the application of those resources to achieve the desired results over time. 
The Opposition's principal objection in the amendment is that there is not enough time or effort being given to some of the problems which may not be of great importance to the developers. I refer to the problems of conservation - the effect of reafforestation programmes on the environment, the ecology, the flora and fauna and associated matters. Although I am quite certain that nobody in the Opposition believes that foresters are not conservation minded - we believe that they are and we know that it is a basic part of their training - we believe that not enough emphasis is being given to forest management in Australia, particularly in relation to our hardwood forests. Also, to what degree will the increased plantings of softwoods encroach on commercial hardwoods. These are points which my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and my Tasmanian colleagues will draw out in more detail. 
There have been a number of overseas conferences in this field. I suppose that no arm of applied science has produced more literature than forestry has produced. One is amazed at the amount of literature in Australia and overseas regarding forest resources and their development. World forestry congress under the auspices of the Food and Agriculture Organisation are frequently attended by Australians, and studies prepared by FAO in consultation with other countries have been made to the degree that reasonable estimates can be made of the levels of supply and demand with respect to particular forest products up to, say, the year 2000. The evidence assembled in the FAO studies points up the rapid rate at which the industrial wood sector is growing. In the 10 years to 1961 the quantity of wood used for industrial purposes grew by about 25 per cent. It is estimated that up to 1975 the quantity used will grow by 45 per cent. So there seems no doubt that there will be a substantial increase in consumption of these products. The structure of wood consumption is rapidly changing, with demand shifting from unprocessed to processed wood products and, among the latter, from solid to reconstituted wood products such as particle board and paper. According to FAO, this steady shift in the pattern of requirements means that different dimensions, different qualities and different wood properties will become important in the future. 
Another point is that geographical distribution of demand and of growth in demand is causing important changes in the pattern of supply. The studies have found that about 70 per cent of the additional industrial wood which will be required in the immediate future will be needed in the advanced, high income countries. In many of these high income countries the volume of industrial wood used is growing faster than it did during the first half of this century. In some of these leading wood consuming regions domestic wood supply is no longer keeping pace with this expanding and changing demand in terms of either quantities or types of wood. The change in the type of wood product demanded is evident in Australia as well as in overseas countries. This has been brought out by the various annual reports of the Forestry and Timber Bureau and the various reports of Australian delegates to overseas conferences, and it is in keeping with the changing technology throughout the world. 
In the light of information from overseas and in Australia forecasting the deficiencies and the surpluses in various areas of the world, it would seem that certain general conclusions can be reached based on the best evidence available. Many studies have been made by the Forestry Council and by world authorities with respect to the world supply and demand of softwood products in relation to hardwood products. Forecasts have been made as to the probable movements of these products in world trade. One interesting point is that the Forestry Council has estimated that Australia will require a softwood resource of about 3 million acres of plantations by the year 2000. lt is estimated that such a resource, together with improved production from the native forests, would be likely to make Australia reasonably self sufficient as to the total requirements for wood for the Australian population expected at that time. Of course, one can argue about the estimates because the increased rate of migration could change materially from the projections that have been made. 
Similarly, technology could change. There have been various moves - for example, in my own area of north Queensland - to establish the manufacture of paper from the by-products of sugar cane. I imagine that this type of technology will increase in the future, particularly if the price of softwoods increases on world markets through any major deficiency. As foreshadowed in the 1967 Act, a review of the 5-year programme was undertaken. The Economics Branch of the Forestry and Timber Bureau, in collaboration with the Treasury, undertook a benefit-cost analysis of the Australian States' softwood afforestation programmes, and the Joint Consultative Council on Forest Industries - that is the Australian and New Zealand body - prepared a report relating to supply and demand and other factors up to the year 2010, which was published. So with all the evidence available to the Government and to the expert authorities there is a strong case for a continuation of this programme of plantings. 
The recent meetings of the FAO Advisory Committee and others concerned with world forest resources, particularly on pulp and paper, have illustrated again the need for sound planning with respect to increased production of our timber products. The general conclusions reached at the conferences, such as those of the International Union of Forestry Research Organisations and the International Academy of Wood Science, through the FAO Advisory Committee, have shown that on a world wide basis the production potential of forests is hot greatly in excess of present utilisation rates and in certain areas such as Japan and Europe the wood deficit is increasing steadily. The FAO advisory committee on pulp and paper met in Rome in May 1971 when its secretariat presented its annual survey which reviews pulp and paper capacity production and consumption and provides forecasts for the years ahead. What this survey apparently shows in broad terms is that there could be a surplus of softwood timber products in North America by the year 2000 providing programmes are maintained or accelerated. One has to talk in time terms like this in regard to timber because this industry is not the same as, for example, the wheat industry in which production can be expanded in a matter of months. The year 2000 is the standard year used in these studies. 
Although it is anticipated that there will be a surplus of softwood timber in North America all evidence suggest that there will be severe deficits in Europe. The literature that I have had supplied to me on this subject suggests that Russia could be a major deficit country in terms of timber products. Another major deficit country will be Japan/This, of course, is understandable. As we all know, Japan is extremely worried at the moment about where its timber products, whether they be used for construction or making paper, are to come from. These arguments have been put forward in respect of the development of the wood chip industry in Australia. New Zealand, providing that there is an acceleration of plantings, should have a surplus. We know that there will be a deficit in Australia. If we marry all of these supply and demand figures it could be argued, for example, that New Zealand could supply all of Australia's requirements. But let us remember that we have in Australia a resource from which we can produce timber just as cheaply and in some instances a lot more cheaply than other countries can. The law of comparative advantage is quite clear: When one has that advantage one should go ahead and use it. This, of course, is what this Bill is about. 
Although it could be argued - and I know that my friend the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  who comes from Tasmania will comment on this aspect - that perhaps the production of timber could slow down and we could increase our imports of timber from New Zealand. The view that I have always taken is that if we have a resource we should develop it providing that this can be done efficiently and economically. We can certainly do that. We want to expand the production of our softwoods. We want to do this to provide employment in all areas of Australia that are capable of growing more timber and developing timber resources. Therefore, although New Zealanders could argue that they could supply our requirements, the fact of the matter is that unless firm arrangements were entered into it is more than likely that New Zealand would be flat out meeting the requirements of Japan in the year 2000. However, the policy should be - and I have always subscribed to this - that if we have a resource which can be developed economically it should be developed. That of course, is what the Bill is doing. 
From the figures it would seem that the Asian-Pacific region by 1975 will have a deficit of softwoods which could be of the order of $1 ,900m per annum. This deficit will apply principally to Japan. All evidence and figures from official reports suggest that there will be this deficit, with reservations in mind as to the unknowns of technology, the substitution of other materials for timber and so on. A basic criticism which the Opposition makes as regards the volume of planting is that iiic Parliament is entitled to know more about conservation matters in regard to this legislation. Those of us who have seen reafforestation and development along these lines know the effects that it can have on the environment, the ecology, the flora and the fauna. We have moved the amendment because we do not have sufficient evidence. There is nothing in this agreement, for example, which states the responsibilities of the States and the Commonwealth with respect to the environment. We want to know more about this. We want to know what are the qualifications with respect to plantings, for example, in terms of erosion and the encroachment, if any, that would take place on commercial hardwoods. These are questions which we want to raise. This is the reason why the amendment has been moved. 
Obviously there are tangible benefits to be derived in terms of production and sales of timber from reafforestation. However, there are also a lot of other benefits to which the Parliament ought to have more access. One benefit relates to management. lt is well known that where planned afforestation policies have been put into effect great efforts are made in the control of fires. 1 think it is accepted that the incidence of fires has been minimised in areas where these policies have been introduced. I am not speaking here about areas under afforestation: I am speaking more in respect of our commercial and noncommercial hardwoods. Where patrols are carried to minimise the incidence of fires, particularly in association with afforestation, one also has better management. As one who lives in the north I might say that a lot of damage is done year in and year out by uncontrolled fires. Most of the land in north Queensland is in the hand of beef producers and firing is part and parcel of pasture management. Therefore, it is a question of trying to balance one versus the other. The owner of a property which has, for example, black spear grass, knows full well that he may have to burn in many seasons to reduce the dry matter and to get the greenpick peak. By doing this he often does damage to the flora and fauna of the area. Therefore it is a question of the balance between the management of hardwoods and the need to increase productivity in an area. I am well aware, of course, that the Forestry and Timber Bureau of the Department of National Development takes all of these matters into consideration in respect to its programmes. But we in the Parliament ought to know more about these matters. 1 have covered the main points that I wanted to make. The principal one is the need to increase the plantings in Australia in view of all the evidence available on the supply and demand position in the south east Pacific and throughout the world. We have the resources which we can develop efficiently and economically. We know that this is the case and that this should be done. As a matter of fact, in some areas development should be accelerated, provided that in the management of our hardwood forests sufficient emphasis is given always to conservation of flora and fauna and the environment. lt is a question of balance between these factors. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
Could I ask a question? What puzzles me in this case is that apparently these letters were addressed to all honourable members. That would be the only way in which you would be aware of the matter,  Mr Speaker.  I cannot see how else you would be aware of it. I do not believe that the attendants would be opening our mail and censoring it. I assume that the only way you could learn about this message was as a result of a letter being addressed to you as  Speaker  or as the member for Phillip. Assume that one was not addressed to you, but that 100 such letters were addressed to other honourable members. I take it that we would get those letters without any interference? 
I move: 
At end of motion add: 'that such date and hour be not later than 30th June 1972'. 
The reason for this motion, of course, is obvious. It is obvious from their mirth that members of the Liberal Party in no circumstances wish to come back early to the Parliament to discuss wool. The other objective is to see the response of the Country Party, which has been so vocal in wanting urgent legislation on wool. Members of the Country Party have been making a great song and dance inside and outside this Parliament about the need to legislate and the need to make decisions in respect of wool marketing. In particular, the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey),  the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  and the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett),  to mention 3, have expressed grave concern about the Government's non-decision with respect to wool marketing. Other honourable members have expressed similar views. Speaking on behalf of members of the Labor Party, I can say we agree with them. We have made that quite clear. But the principal objectives of asking that the Parliament be recalled before 30th June 1972 are, firstly, to consider the Randall wool report, which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  today informed the House has been received by the Government, and, secondly, to enable effective action to be taken to rectify the current uncertainty on wool marketing. I move this amendment because, as honourable members well know, on 7th October last year the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill was introduced into the Parliament by the Minister for Primary Industry. The long title of that Bill read: 
An Act to provide for Payments on behalf of the Commonwealth for the purpose of ensuring a Minimum Standard of Financial Returns to Producers of certain Australian Wool sold or otherwise dealt with on or after the second day of July, One thousand nine hundred and  seventy-one,  and before the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two. 
In other words that Act officially concludes on 30th June next, and wool deficiency payments will not be made after that date. There has been no indication from this Government on whether wool deficiency payments will continue to be made after 30th June or whether amendments will be made to the Act before that time. This Act authorises the appropriation of money to make wool deficiency payments to ensure an average return at a certain level as specified in the Act within the prescribed period. The prescribed period is clearly defined in the Act as the period ending on 30th June 1972. Can any member of the Country Party or the Liberal Party tell me what will happen after 30th June 1972? What do they say to that question which every wool grower they meet asks them? The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  are trying to interrupt my speech with interjections. The honourable member for Hume will get his chance to vote and we will see how good he is. We all know how he will vote, just as he talks outside this Parliament. We know how the Minister for Shipping and Transport will vote. He will vote in the same way as he always does. The point I make is that the provisions of the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act 1971 cease to operate after 30th June this year. This House will shortly commence the winter recess. No amendment has been made to this Act, no amendment has been foreshadowed and no decision has been taken in regard to any new legislation to enable these payments to continue to be made after 30th June. The 30th June is an important date because the new wool selling season commences on 1st July. It is important that the whole scheme of wool marketing be clarified. Before this Parliament rises we should at least be in a position to know what will happen after 30th June. We have heard in recent weeks, both inside and outside this Parliament, a number of statements made by members of the Country Party about the need for an acquisition scheme, the need for a drastic reform with respect to wool marketing and the need to treat these things as a matter of urgency. We will test those honourable members in this House on their statements just as the Opposition tested 3 key Liberals on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. We all know what they did. We will see the same thing happen in regard to this matter. Members of the Liberal Party and of the Country Party make big brave statements outside this Parliament but it is a different thing when it comes to saying them in this Parliament and showing how fair dinkum they are and whether they are prepared to back up their statements. 
After the Government has had a week or so to consider the Randall report the Parliament will debate it and the conclusions in it, and the Government will introduce an amendment to this Act to enable deficiency payments to be made for a further prescribed period or introduce new legislation with respect to a wool acquisition scheme or the marketing of wool. The Parliament knows full well that this Government is incapable of giving competent leadership. A prime example of this is the Government's stalling in this place month after month with the excuse that it is waiting for the Randall report. The Randall report has now reached the Government. We do not say that next week a decision should be taken on that report, but what we do say is that because this Act expires on 30th June 1972 a positive decision has to be taken. If the decision involves money - obviously it must - some explanation should be given to the Parliament on whether an amendment will be made to the Act or new legislation will be introduced. What will the Government do? Will it introduce some airy-fairy scheme which it will announce in the Budget Speech? 
The provisions of this Act will not apply from 1st July 1972. Until this Parliament resumes in August where will the wool growers stand? Every wool grower in Australia is asking the same question: 'What will the Government do?'. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  has asked time and again: 'What will the Government do?' In the television series 'This Day Tonight' the honourable member referred to the Randall report as a subterfuge. 
Is the Minister for foreign Affairs aware that recently the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd negotiated a small but very important sale of sugar to the People's Republic of China? There is every indication that this sale will be the beginning of a major trade with China. Will the Minister ensure that the Government and his Department do nothing to jeopardise the trade in sugar between Australia and China just as the Government and his Department jeopardised the trade in wheat between Australia and China? In other words, will he ensure that the Government and his Department keep their noses out of negotiations between the experts of Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and representatives of the People's Republic of China? 
I just want to comment on the Minister's absence from the chamber. Probably he has been called out of the chamber because of pressing priorities on business but when questions are raised on a Bill which is before the House it is usual for the Minister in charge of the Bill to reply to those questions. I will not place the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is at the table, in an embarrassing position because obviously he cannot answer the questions. Opposition members asked several questions during the course of this debate. Those questions did not involve any secrets or Government policy and one would have thought that they would have been answered. As I have said, I accept the fact that the Minister has possibly been called out of the chamber to deal with a priority matter but 1 think that as a matter of courtesy to the House we should have answers to the questions which have been raised. After all, $2m is involved in this scheme under discussion. Certain questions were asked by myself and other honourable members in this debate and it is usual for the Minister in replying to a second reading debate to answer those quesions. I just make that point. I think that the Minister should be present or perhaps some explanation given to the House for his absence. 
 I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The principal objective of this Budget is a blatant attempt to hoodwink the electors of Australia by a desperate Government - a Government facing extinction at the end of the year. But despite the Government's sudden interest in such matters as social services reform and income tax reform, the Budget has serious deficiencies that should not occur in any well formulated national Budget. It is a Budget which is once more an extension of the Liberal-Country Party Government's confessed unco-ordinated, ad hoc policies in relation to the management of the nation. It is a stop-go Budget, a Budget which gives concrete evidence of the illconceived policies enunciated by the Government's budget  12  months ago, when such sensitive items as sales tax and Post Office charges were deliberately increased, without justification, as time has shown. Instead of the budget  12  months ago being designed to stimulate consumer spending and reduce the rate of inflation, it in fact dampened spending and increased inflation with the inevitable result of widespread unemployment in certain sectors of the economy. 
When first announced, the income tax cuts appeared to be a major gain to income earners. But when the position is scrutinised more closely in relation to inflationary trends, it becomes apparent that once again the Government has been deceitful, by not revealing all the facts. The Government did not tell the people that the income tax reduction for which it has provided means that the higher the income of a taxpayer the greater is the rate of increase in his net income after the tax has been paid. This move by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is a cunning device, easily recognised by those familiar with income tax structures and the incidence of taxation at various levels of assessable income. Thus, although the Treasurer is correct in asserting that the percentage reductions in the amount of income tax payable are significant to the family man on a low income, once again the greatest beneficiaries are those on higher incomes. 
I want to say a few words about the controversy over the revaluation of the Australian dollar in relation to the value of other world currencies which we have heard so much about in recent weeks. Most of the controversy has been initiated by academic economists who have put forward for consideration learned points of view in journals, newspapers and other forms of the media. They are perfectly entitled to do so. But recently we saw the intrusion of the Reserve Bank of Australia into this controversy to the degree that the Reserve Bank had come out in favour of appreciation of the Australian dollar on the ground that the dollar is undervalued. The Reserve Bank is a vital arm of the Federal Government. Its policies are closely tuned to the policies of the Federal Treasury, as they should be. The Federal Treasury is the supreme policy-making department in the Commonwealth. On the Board of the Reserve Bank is the Secretary of the Treasury,  Sir Frederick  Wheeler, who is one of Australia's most powerful financial policymakers and adviser to the Federal Government. 
Even though the Reserve Bank's analysis was confined largely to the problems of regulating the inflow of foreign money in relation to inflation, its pronouncement that the Australian dollar is undervalued is in fact a general pronouncement to the world of serious economic content. It has been interpreted by the Australian public as such. It no doubt has been interpreted by world financial authorities as such. I believe that this public pronouncement by the Reserve Bank, an arm of the Commonwealth Government, even if correct, is highly irresponsible. It can only lead to confusion and speculation both in and out of Australia. Experience has shown that the level of the value of a nation's currency is a highly emotional issue of great economic significance. Any sudden major change in the value of a nation's currency can lead to great gains in wealth on the one hand or bankruptcy on the other. Unless it is an integral part of a world-wide realignment of currencies by the principal trading nations, general depreciation or appreciation of the currency, as distinct from devaluation or matters attached to the gold standard, should be avoided under present economic conditions. 
Let me first state a fundamental principle of currency appreciation as it affects Australia's exports and imports. If the international value of the Australian dollar is raised - appreciation - the prices of Australian exports rise and the prices of foreign imports into Australia fall. Thus a reduction in exports and an increase in imports can be achieved, which over time can progressively diminish the surplus of foreign exchange reserves. Translated into practical action, appreciation will reduce the profitableness of all Australian export industries - rural, mineral and manufacturing - as well as associated industries, such as tourism, which earn export income. The degree of move, of course, depends on the elasticity of the particular factor being varied. Certainly, appreciation would discourage movement of speculative money into Australia, but it would allow a greater volume of cheap imports into Australia. Some economists argue mat a significant increase in cheaper imports not only would reduce costs in Australia but also would allow for the transfer of labour and capital resources from high cost industries into the so-called low cost industries often referred to by the Tariff Board. These economists conclude that by a better allocation of the nation's resources the nation's real income is increased, and inflationary forces are dampened. 
This, in my opinion, is an academic argument. It is an academic approach which ignores the fact that a major increase in cheap imports following sudden appreciation could cause the bankruptcy of small manufacturing industries which employ thousands of men and women throughout Australia. At the same time the general increased competition from imports could cause a loss of production from large Australian manufacturing firms whose competitive position had been protected by the former level of the exchange rate in relation to the tariff, that is, in relation to the tariff which would not be altered. It must also be remembered that the burden of any appreciation of the Australian dollar would fall more harshly on Australian owned companies than on foreign owned companies operating in Australia, because Australian owned exporting companies need to earn Australian dollars to pay dividends to Australian shareholders. Unfortunately, it is a fact of life that it is most difficult to write contracts for Australian exports in the mineral field and the primary industry field, whether we speak about iron ore, bauxite, sugar or whatever it may be, in Australian dollars. 
In summary, a sudden appreciation of the Australian dollar relative to other world currencies would mean an immediate loss of Australian dollars for the Australian export sector, which would be felt directly and indirectly in the rural and mineral areas of Australia and indirectly in the manufacturing areas of Australia including the cities. A higher level of foreign imports due to their increased financial advantage over Australian produced goods would lead to reduced production in some Australian manufacturing industries. So, in both the export and the import competitive sectors Australian confidence could be shaken and the rate of investment by Australian companies in these sectors of the economy would suffer. Another effect is that the rate of unemployment could be greatly increased in many sectors unless some sort of instantaneous re-allocation of resources took place. It must be remembered also that when we contemplate depreciation or appreciation it is very difficult to write long term contracts with foreign countries for minerals at a particular level or particular contract price, when they insist that they be written in foreign currency. 
It could be argued that all of the above factors will dampen down the forces of inflation and reduce costs in Australia through a reduced level of economic activity. In addition, a deliberate discouraging of speculative money coming into Australia would be achieved by appreciation. That is admitted. But such drastic policies, although perhaps appealing to the academics, who do not see industry disruption and unemployment in the same light as governments, oppositions or politicians in general see them, do not meet the criteria of responsible government, which has an obligation to make decisions in the national interest. Decisions in the national interest are heavily weighted in favour of the effects on the economic lives of people. For example, it would be most difficult to substantiate a case for appreciation in the State of Western Australia at the present time. It already has one of the highest levels of unemployment in Australia. Any economic attack on Western Australia's export mineral industries would intensify unemployment, as would any increased inflow of cheap imports into Western Australia because they would undermine established manufacturing firms. It is possible, of course, to argue that unemployed people in Western Australia could suddenly be moved to the eastern States. This is how some economists argue. But in practice it is most difficult to tell a man that he and his family must sell their house and get out of one area and go to another area. 
Appreciation of the Australian dollar, in my opinion, is not the answer to Australia's inflationary problems or the inflow of foreign money; nor, of course, is depreciation of the currency. All the evidence from a practical and a government viewpoint suggests that if other countries do not alter the value of their currencies Australia should not take any drastic action by altering her exchange rate up or down just to correct inflationary forces and to minimise the inflow of the so-called speculative or hot money. The value of the Australian dollar, in my opinion, should remain at its present level, given the existing levels of the value of other major currencies. At the same time positive exchange control policies should be implemented to regulate and control the level and nature of foreign moneys coming into Australia. In addition to positive exchange control, intelligent domestic monetary and fiscal policies in association with action to regulate prices in Australia such as a prices justification tribunal should be ancillary to sound exchange control. My principal objective here is to criticise the Reserve Bank of Australia for its irresponsibility in making public highly speculative policy pronouncements which can cause damage to the stability of the Australian financial system. I also suggest that it is high time the Government and the Reserve Bank took positive action to identify the nature of foreign money coming into Australia and exert sound exchange controls as is practised in the United States of America, Japan, Canada, Germany and other European Economic Community countries. 
I have not tse slightest doubt that the smart alecks in the Australian Country Party, and perhaps in the Liberal Party, will attempt to misconstrue my thoughts on revaluation as a repudiation of my leader, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam).  The Leader of the Opposition made it perfectly clear to the Labor Party, to the Parliament and to the Australian people that his personal opinion on revaluation did not in any way commit the Labor Party in opposition or in government. He gave what he believed to be a perfectly honest answer to a complex question which in no way whatsoever could be interpreted as being the official policy of the Australian Labor Party now, or at any time in the future. He is entitled to give his personal view just as I and other members of this Parliament are entitled to give ours. Last night the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  gave his personal view. He is in complete favour of general devaluation. 
It is a great pity that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and members of the Country Party, who see the statement of the Leader of the Opposition as some cheap opportunity to gain political capital, do not take some responsible action on their own behalf. All that their organised attacks on the Leader of the Opposition are doing is causing speculation throughout the coun try about the future of the currency. What right has the Country Party leader to throw stones at the Leader of the Opposition. It was the leaders of the Australian Country Party who only last week announced that the Government was to establish a national rural bank. This is not Government policy; this is not a decision made by Cabinet; this is the personal opinion of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  They were giving their personal opinions, just as the Leader of the Opposition did. What did the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  do? He repudiated any suggestion that there will be a national rural bank. He repudiated what was said by the  Deputy  Prime Minister who expressed a personal opinion. 
Let me make lt clear in the time remaining to me that the Labor Party is a responsible party. There has never been any suggestion on the part of the Labor Party to make any decision on the revaluation of the Australian currency. That is the role of government and that is the view also of the Leader of the Opposition. We are in opposition. We are not the Government. We recognise that this is a most delicate and complex matter. It is a highly emotional issue and it is essential that the best possible Australian and international advice is available before any decision is taken. When Labor becomes a government it will make decisions on this most complex issue always in the national interest, and these will be responsible decisions. 
I take this opportuanity to speak briefly on some of the matters affecting the Cabinet, which technically of course is the Government and indirectly the Prime Minister's Department, which is the chief coordinating Department of the Commonwealth between the Commonwealth Government and the States. I am concerned principally with the growing tendency of secrecy on the part of the Cabinet, particularly with respect to the expenditure of Commonwealth money and the refusal of the Government to provide information to the people of Australia and the Parliament relating to the expenditure of that money and also leading up to the expenditure of that money. In the time available it is not possible to deal with very many cases, but let us take some in the development field with which I am more familiar. The usual procedure is for the Premier of a State to write to the Prime Minister asking for financial assistance or technical assistance with respect to an investigation for a development project. I assume that Cabinet then agrees or disagrees with the request and a decision is relayed back to the Premier. Parliament is not told anything until months or years later when a decision on a particular project is taken. Even when the decisions are taken Parliament is rarely told of any technical or economic evaluations of projects. 
When the Government first became interested in development projects in the post-war years it was its policy to make reports available to the Parliament and to the people so that the validity or otherwise of this projects could be judged and an appreciation made of the Commonwealth expenditure involved. The brigalow report was published in full and a thorough analysis made by many parliamentarians, academics and State governments of the justification of Commonwealth expenditure. It was regarded as a sound project. The comprehensive water scheme in Western Australia is another project on which a full evaluation was made available to the Parliament by Cabinet, but in the last five or six years a veil of secrecy has fallen over development projects. The report on beef roads, a valuable one in the development of Australia, has never been made available to the Parliament so that a comprehensive evaluation could be made. 
The position is similar in relation to water conservation projects such as the damming of the Ord River, the Fairbairn Dam and the Monduran Dam. Money has been expended by the Commonwealth on those projects but no reports have been made to the Parliament to justify that expenditure. I am referring to justification not only in economic or financial terms but also in terms of why Cabinet made its decisions. Surely the Parliament is entitled to this information. We have recently heard of reappraisals of the great Burdekin River basin, but after two or three years of talking and promises by Commonwealth Ministers it is impossible to find out just what is happenaing to that reappraisal. No progress reports are made. After the money is spent on development projects such as the beef roads scheme, the brigalow scheme, the Ord River Dam and other major water conservation projects, rarely are we given information about the progress that is being made. We are not told whether the State governments are spending the money efficiently. Surely we are entitled to know. 
I want also to deal with the decisions of Cabinet on what I consider the absurd secrecy relating to the provision of vital statistics to the Parliament. For example, if I ask the Government how much sorghum is grown in the Northern Territory I cannot get an answer because, according to Cabinet, I could easily identify which particular company grows most of that sorghum. Yet I can telephone the Northern Territory Administration and get the answer within 5 minutes. If I ask the Commonwealth Government how much bauxite is produced in Queensland or exported, or how much alumina is produced in Queensland I cannot get an answer, yet I can ring up a Queensland department and get the answer immediately. Alternatively, I could get the information from the annual reports of foreign companies operating in Australia. I cannot get the information from the Commonwealth Government because of this veil of secrecy. 
Recently I asked how many workers are employed in sugar refineries in Australia. I could not get the answer because it was felt that I could establish the number of workers employed by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. Yet I can ring up that company and get the answer straight away. In a modern democracy it is completely absurd that Cabinet should work in such a secret fashion. I want also to deal with the growing tendency towards leakages of Cabinet decisions. It seems to me that this is becoming a very serious matter. Recently, for the first time in my experience as a member of this Parliament and before that, a journalist, through the media, told Australia, and the world for that matter, of major provisions to be included in the Budget. Obviously it was an informed leak. There is no question about it. Most of the things he said were correct. 
The position has been similar with respect to recent decisions on wool acquisition and deficiency payments. It seemed that the offices of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the  deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  were racing each other to get this information to the journalists as soon as decisions were taken by Cabinet because each of them had an axe to grind. There also seems to be a growing tendency among Cabinet Ministers to announce decisions outside Parliament. After Parliament rises on a Thursday night, Cabinet decisions are frequently made known to the public on the Friday, Saturday or Sunday so that a ministerial statement to the House, which would be debated, is not made. 
There is also a growing tendency towards what I would call political blackmail. Cabinet Ministers are allowing this practice to creep into the Parliament. Statements have been made in recent weeks by the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on the establishment of a rural bank. Where is this rural bank? Has it been considered by Cabinet? My sources tell me that it has not been considered by Cabinet. The Budget contains an appropriation of $20m to be made available for the rural sector. One can imagine how far that sum will go in solving the debt problem or development problem of Australian primary industries. I question the right of 2 responsible Cabinet Ministers to be informing .the people of Australia about the establishment of a rural bank when the matter has not yet been considered by Cabinet or a decision taken by Cabinet on it. 
This type of political blackmail was evident when the Government was considering a currency readjustment, whether Australia should appreciate or depreciate its currency in relation to the yen or the American dollar. Again there were deliberate leakages of information from the Cabinet to the newspapers, even to the degree that reports appeared that the Country Party leaders were going to walk out of the Cabinet. That is the type of government that is ruling Australia today. It is supposed to be a stable government yet it seems that when the Country Party cannot get its own way in the Cabinet it thinks the best thing to do is to leak information to the Press that the Country Party is opposing to the hilt the Prime Minister and the Liberal Party. Is this the essence of stable government? 
You will not be there much longer. You can count your days because I can assure you that they are numbered. I would like now to discuss decentralisation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to continue my remarks with respect to the secrecy of the Cabinet and the political dishonesty of some Cabinet Ministers. As I mentioned before we have seen this tendency developing in recent years. This afternoon we had a debate on the 35- bour week. If ever there was a subject which has been abused by Cabinet Ministers who know fully the true facts of this matter, it is that of the 35-hour week. We see the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  attempting to make political cap ital throughout the nation and in the Parliament by stating by inference that a Labor government would introduce, across the board, a 35-hour week. This is false. The sad part about this is that the Minister, who is a member of Cabinet, knows that it is false, and this is what I call political dishonesty. 
The Federal Parliament, a Labor government or any other Federal government does not have the jurisdiction to introduce shorter or longer working hours, except in the small number of cases which relate to Commonwealth public servants or the Parliament itself. Sixty per cent of the work force in Australia work under State awards, and these people do not come under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In Queensland alone 73 per cent of the work force work under State awards. These awards have nothing to do with the Federal Government or the Commonealth Arbitration Commission. It is a matter for the State Government to determine whether the people who come under these awards will work a shorter or a longer working week. But it is political dishonesty for Cabinet Ministers to attempt to secure some type of political advantage by making statements which imply that a Labor government will introduce a shorter working week. Australian Labor Party policy has been made quite clear by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  If a particular industry makes an application to the Arbitration Commission for a 35-hour week and, after thorough investigation, a Labor government will support it if it is convinced that this shorter week is justified, but if it is not convinced that it would be in the best interests of the nation, it will not support it. 
It will not support it; it will oppose it if it is not justified. That is clear. I have said it time and time again, and so has the honourable member for Hindmarsh who is Labor's spokesman on labour affairs. 
What do you mean? Let me make the point quite clear. First of all, it is not a matter for the Federal Parliament; it is not a matter for a Federal government; it is a matter for the Arbitration Commission to which particular unions, under the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Commission, can present their case. The case having been presented, a Labor government would then make a decision either to support it or not to support it. This attitude has been expressed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh time and time again. What is the policy of the Country Party or the Liberal Party on this matter? The Australian Labor Party certainly has a policy on it. It has had this policy ever since the Labor Party was established. Our policy is to try to get the best possible working conditions in the rural areas of Australia and the city areas of Australia, and it is a policy of which we are proud. 
But what is the policy of the Country Party or the Liberal Party on the 35-hour week? Both Government parties have said that they will oppose completely the introduction of a 35-hour week. Surely we. can deduce from that that they support a longer working week. Apparently this is their policy; they would like to see everybody in Australia working many more hours a day. The Labor Party has stated its policy, but let it not deliberately be misinterpreted by Cabinet Ministers. Let them state, the facts. Let them give the people of Australia the facts instead of trying deliberately to misinterpret, to distort the policies of the Labor Party in regard to a 35-hour week. While debating the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, let me say that we have seen the same sort of political dishonesty in relation to wheat sales to China. How many times in this House and outside the House have we seen Country Party Ministers trying to blame me and the Labor Party for the. loss of wheat sales to China. 
You would not know the first thing about it. One fact in relation to wheat sales to China is that in 1964 this Government deliberately stood oyer the Australian Wheat Board and directed that the Wheat Board pass a note to Chinese authorities, thus introducing politics into the wheat trade. Australia lost the wheat trade with China after Canada recognised China, but we will regain it and we will regain it very quickly under a Labor government. I consider the Government's actions to be political dishonesty. We have seen this sort of thing happen in other industries. In recent days we saw it happen in the sugar industry. When I came back from China last year I stated quite categorically in this Parliament and outside the Parliament that I believed that the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd would sell sugar to China. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! I think the honourable member is a little bit wide of the estimates before the Committee. We are dealing with the estimates of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and you are talking about trade matters. I do not think this is of relevance to the Department of the Prime Minister. 
I am saying that when I made, that statement Cabinet Ministers ridiculed it, and now by strange coincidence trade in sugar is being developed with China. Cabinet Ministers are accusing me of attempting to wreck our sugar trade with China. Have honourable members ever heard such humbug and rubbish? We have to make quite certain that politics do not enter into the sugar negotiations and that the Cabinet Ministers speak the truth and state the facts. They must allow the Queensland Sugar Board through the CSR company to conduct their operations with China completely free from dishonest politics. If we do this we will be able to establish an excellent sugar trade between the 2 countries. But we have heard Cabinet Ministers making these fallacious statements. 
During my first period in this debate I spoke on Cabinet secrecy. Some honourable members will recall that when I entered this Parliament I had all sorts of problems. Just after I became a member my office in Parliament House was raided by persons unknown to me. From memory I think 6 valuable files containing a lot of evidence that I had and I needed, as well as some reports which I also needed, were stolen. Never yet have I seen a report of this incident, despite the fact that it was raised in the Parliament and despite the fact that it was investigated by  Mr Speaker.  What I am saying is that this secrecy of the Cabinet is something to be deplored. I think that in the interests of good government and democracy in Australia the government of the day has to get away from this absurd obsession with secrecy and let the people of Australia know more about what is happening in the country. This is particularly so with respect to Cabinet decisions, which should not be kept secret. I am not saying that all decisions should be made public and have to be justified - far from it - but certainly some of them should. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware of the repeated statements that are being made by the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Trade and Industry that the Government is establishing a national rural bank and that figures of $300m to $400m have been mentioned? I ask whether the Prime Minister still remembers that on television he debunked this idea, using the following words: 
No, I do not think it is on; not in the immediate future; certainly not. 
Has this matter in fact been considered by Cabinet? If it has, when will the Government make a decision? If it has not, what authority have the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Trade and Industry to make public statements purporting to be from the Cabinet, that a national rural bank is in fact being established? 
Mi McMAHON- The honourable gentleman should know, if he reads the newspapers, that there have been discussions within the whole ministerial system about the viability of establishing a rural bank. It has also been made clear, as a matter of policy, that if such a bank is a viable proposition the Liberal Party will support it. There have been many detailed discussions between the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer, who are my colleagues associated with this problem. Also there have been discussions about this problem with me and I have been very interested in it. At the moment we are not in a position where we can state clearly and unequivocally that we feel that a rural bank is a viable proposition. In fact, in a case like this where the Commonwealth Trading Bank and the other trading banks are so intimately involved, as are the pastoral houses and the insurance companies, a great deal more precision is required before we can decide for ourselves whether a rural bank -vin be established. 
Most of the discussion tonight has been concerned with legitimate complaints against the increasing problems of aircraft noise, the wrong location of airports and the problems arising from the location of new airports. 1 represent an area in which, probably fortunately, these problems do not arise. The problem in north Queensland is that we have not sufficient airports. We are not worried with noise, and in fact we would not mind a bit more noise up there if it meant getting a few more efficient and more frequent aircraft services. The towns in my area alone, such as Proserpine, Bowen, Ayr, Home Hill and Collinsville, had better services in the days of the Dragon Rapide and the DC3 aircraft than they have today. These are facts. One of the effects of the use of jet airliners is that because of traffic loads and the moving of the greatest number of passengers in the shortest possible time, fewer aircraft are involved. Consequently we have seen a diminution of the quality and quantity of aircraft services between important towns in Queensland. 
Let me deal first with Mackay, which is the centre of the electorate of Dawson and one of the most important airports in Australia. It is ranked as the fifth busiest airport in Australia outside the capital cities. The standard of buildings at the Mackay Airport is nothing short of a disgrace in terms of modern aircraft terminals. It has only been through the good grace of  Sir Reginald  Ansett in the last 12 months in building what we might describe as a decent air terminal for Ansett Airlines of Australia that people travelling to the Mackay Airport and either terminating there or going through to places to the north or the various island and tourist resorts have been able to secure sufficient shelter in the wet season at peak- times. Until only a few months ago the only buildings there were of poor quality. They were not commensurate with an airport of the standing of the Mackay Airport - the fifth busiest airport of Australia outside the capital cities. 
Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett have done something to overcome this problem, but the full blame must rest with the Federal Government and the Department of Civil Aviation. In 1967 the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works went to Mackay to investigate the extension of the runways. Although it was not within its terms of reference to do so, this Committee could not but help comment on the disgraceful conditions of the airport buildings in Mackay. In fact, it made a special recommendation that the Department of Civil Aviation should do something to accelerate the implementation of the plan for new buildings. In its report the Committee stated: 
We also noted the advice of the Department of Civil Aviation that there are plans for a new building area to be developed at Mackay Airport perhaps in the early 1970s'. 
It is 1972 now and nobody has seen any plan yet of the new airport buildings or airport building zone in that area, to the degree that both Ansett and TAA, in desperation, have had to do something to try to alleviate the problems at the Mackay Airport. I am pleased to see that in the last few months both these airlines, particularly Ansett, have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars altogether in at least making passengers comfortable for the time being. But tonight I would like io ask the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr McLeay)  what are the plans for Mackay Airport with respect to buildings. We have been hearing year in and year out that the Department of Civil Aviation is to do something in that area, but nobody can find out anything despite the number of letters that bodies in that area and I have written. 
I mentioned in passing earlier the deteriorating aircraft services in central and northern Queensland, particularly the frequency of aircraft visits and the actual closing down, we might say, of airports. This matter has to be looked at properly. If TAA and Ansett cannot solve this problem between them, it is up to the Government to provide feeder aircraft services to these areas. I will not deal with any areas outside my electorate, because other people can do that more efficiently than I can. They are more familiar with the problems in those areas, but I am perfectly familiar with the problems in my own electorate. I want to see better services to places such as Proserpine, Bowen, Collinsville, Home Hill and Ayr. These are areas of vital importance to the development of northern Australia. They are considered in many respects to be some of the greatest tourist potential areas in Australia - the gateway to the Barrier Reef. Certainly where we have airports - and we have airports in these areas - they should at least be used. As I said before, we had better services in the days of the DC3 and the Dragon Rapide aircraft than we have now. For example, if a passenger wants to travel from Mackay to Townsville and back in one day, or in some cases in 2 days, he has to fly from Mackay to Brisbane, Brisbane to Townsville, Townsville back to Brisbane and from Brisbane back to Mackay. This is a disgraceful state of affairs. 
A lot ba&amp; been said today about international airports. I want to put in a plea for an international airport in north Queensland, because I think there should be one up there. 
I agree. A very significant number of people travelling to Australia want to go to one specific place - the Barrier Reef, one of the unique tourist attractions of the world and one which is of international fame. Yet if a passenger comes here on a charter aircraft from overseas he must land at Sydney and then foot the bill from Sydney to Mackay or Townsville and return. Is it any wonder that people will not come to Australia to see the Barrier Reef under such condi- tions? If they come by normal Qantas or other international flights they have to do virtually the same thing to travel to north Queensland, Ayers Rock or wherever it may be. They are the 2 attractions that international visitors to Australia want to see most. Surely there is a strong case for the provision of an international airport in northern Queensland, in Mackay or Townsville or wherever it may be. An investigation should be made concerning an international airport in northern Queensland. After all, people flying from the United States of America, flying from Asia virtually, almost bypass northern Queensland when travelling to Sydney and then flying north. I am told that a lot of the international air companies, including even Qantas, are opposed to having an international airport in northern Queensland. 
The ex-Minister for Civil Aviation says they are not. Somebody is opposed to it, therefore it must be the Government. An inquiry ought to be made for the provision of an international airport in northern Queensland, particularly at either Townsville or Mackay because those are the areas to which international visitors wish to come on their way to western Queensland, the Northern Territory or the eastern areas - the islands pf the Great Barrier Reef. A lot of people who come to Australia do not want to come to Sydney or Melbourne. There are plenty of Sydney: or Melbournes. in other parts of the world, but only one Great Barrier Reef. 
Yes. The 2 international tourist areas ranking first class in international priority are the Great Barrier Reef and Ayers Rock. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Bill before the House may be described as a perennial. Almost each year provision is made to raise certain sums of money for war service land settlement in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania during a particular financial year. This Bill deals with the current financial year - 1972-73 - and according to the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  the amount of money to be raised by loan is 56.5m. This will be made available between the 3 States. South Australia will receive$4.156m, Western Australia$1. 6m and Tasmania $744,000. The significant difference between the amounts made available this financial year and last financial year relates to South Australia. Last financial year $1.683m was allocated to South Australia. This year it has jumped to $4. 156m. 
The principal reason for the increased allocation to South Australia is related to the problems of Kangaroo Island. The problems, as has been stated, are biological and physical. They are concerned with the problems of sheep production - the problems of lamb survival and the high mortality rate which is sometimes as high as 12 per cent. This has apparently been traced to the physical and biological problems related to pasture improvement on that island. It could be referred to as a peculiar relationship between soil, climate and pasture and the relative animal relationships of those 3 variables. It seems from the evidence available that the high estrogen content in the clover pastures is responsible for a higher than normal fatality rate, particularly amongst lambs. 
This is not uncommon in pastures which have clover predominance. On Kangaroo Island there are clover predominant subterranean pastures. This fact has been recognised by the Department of Agriculture in South Australia and by the federal authorities who believe it is only right that these problems should be tackled systematically. They should be tackled by research on the one hand in order to establish the precise causes and the remedies to overcome those causes, and on the other hand by other practical methods to alleviate some of the problems such as the lack of feed at certain times of the year when there are periods of seasonal distress involving the protein content of pastures and also the financial problems which arose from time to time because of these factors. 
Overall the money made available is to maintain the viability of the war service land settlers and at the same time to overcome by various methods the problems which are being encountered. The Opposition supports this measure but one wonders when dealing with war service land settlement just how long it will exist in terms of a scheme, to what degree it will be finalised and whether the major problems will be overcome so as to allow all war service land settlers to become viable and to take their place in Australian agriculture in the same way as have their counterparts who are not war service land settlers. The closer settlement schemes in Australia, of which the war service land settlement scheme is by far the biggest, have been plagued by economic and financial problems ever since they started. We are more familiar with the scheme implemented after World War II. This is not hard to understand when one takes time to consider the problems of agriculture in relation to particular projects such as the war service land settlement scheme. 
There are many variables to be considered in the maintenance of a major project like this because even one major variable can alter the viability or the whole structure of the project itself. For this reason there have been many areas in the war service land settlement scheme which have had major problems over the years. We can identify some of them. One is the physical problems associated with the property such as the carrying capacity of the land to turn off a certain number of stock or, on the other hand, to produce a particular variety as originally planned. There has been a problem of drainage in certain areas. We have seen physical problems in regard to the predominance of subterranean clover pastures. Then there are the economic and financial problems associated with changing conditions on overseas markets and also on the domestic market. There are changes in the prices of commodities which are sold and also the effects of inflation. All these factors add to the hazards of any civilian or war service land settlement scheme. 
It is very difficult to design any closer settlement scheme on the basis of a formula and be able to predict that the size of the farm which was originally designed will weather all the economic and financial storms which will arise in the future. This has been proved not only in Australia but in most parts of the world, no matter whether we are talking about a civilian land settlement scheme a war service land settlement scheme or a private enterprise scheme. We have seen it in the production of wool, beef, fruit and sugar. All these problems have to be faced in agriculture. Therefore when one looks at the operations of the war service land settlement scheme it is easy to be critical. We must remember that there have been major problems which could have been avoided. On the whole one can say that in many parts of Australia it has been a success but one can identify other areas of Australia, particularly some of the islands and areas in the southern part of Western Australia and in northern New South Wales, where there have been problems. Those problems can usually be identified. Despite the physical and economic problems the present problems can be related to financial problems of valuation or revaluation of properties and the rentals paid by individual settlers. 
I now move the following amendment, which is in the same terms as one I moved last year: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that a Select Committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement scheme with particular reference to the level of rentals demanded from settlers, the method of valuations and the option of purchase price of properties.' 
Honourable members will recall that last year in this House we debated the problem of valuation and rentals. We argued, particularly honourable members from Tasmania, that there was plenty of evidence of injustice with respect to the level of rentals and the valuation and revaluation of properties. We in the Labor Party are convinced that there should be an inquiry on the lines we have suggested - that a select committee of the House should be appointed to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement in order to formulate guidelines for future settlement, to enable us to learn from the experience of war service land settlement in Australia and also, I would assume, to gain information regarding civilian land settlement in Australia with the object of identifying the mistakes which have been made in the past and to make certain that they will not be repeated in the future. 
For some reason the Government was reluctant last year to accept the amendment which I moved. I should have thought that the Government would have been anxious to conduct an inquiry into this sort of scheme with the object of studying and finding out all the problems which were encountered in the post-war years in closer settlement. This information could be used in the formulation of any new civilian or war service land settlement scheme in Australia. It is of no use to say that the Government has all the answers because it has not; or if it has, then it has obtained them in a way which we believe was not independent. It would have answers which obviously would only be regarded as being biased if gained from any departmental or government inquiry. They may not be biased in terms of fact; they may be completely accurate in terms of fact. It is far better from the public point of view to have an independent inquiry whereby evidence could be given in public by war service settlers themselves about their own experiences particularly in the fields of rental, revaluations and their ability to make their farms viable. This is the whole purpose of the amendment. 
Without question there is a lot of emotion regarding closer settlement. There seems to be in Australia, although not so much now I would think as in the past, antipathy towards people who have large properties. There is a feeling that large properties should be broken up into smaller units. There is a strong argument for that, because one can argue on the need for decentralisation, that is, the desirability of permanently settling in country areas as many families as possible, that is, settlers who will raise their children in those areas as distinct from, say, itinerant workers and who would form the nucleus of small country towns. There is also the argument of balanced development by having as many people as possible distributed in rural areas. 
On the other side of the picture there is the argument that when land is cut up into smaller units extreme caution has to be taken to ensure that the units do not become pocket handkerchiefs and that we do not generate major problems with respect to the viability of a particular farm or farms. This has been the history of closer settlement not only in Australia but throughout the world. It is far better to have  20  prosperous farmers than to have  22  on the poverty line. Therefore in any closer settlement scheme it is essential that a government should always err on the side of size. It is essential, even if budgets are designed in a most liberal way, to work out the size of a property and then to add a factor, whether it be  25  per cent,  50  per cent or  100  per cent. In that way these schemes will not run the same risk of attempts to part the size of the property down to a minimum area, a home maintenance unit, or however U may be defined. It is far better to have farms that are too big than too small. Thi; is one of the inherent lessons that have been learnt in closer settlement in Australia. One of the main reasons why we want to have an inquiry into war service land settlement schemes and civilian land settlement schemes is so that we do not make the same mistakes as have been made in the past. 
Let us look at the history of this particular war service land settlement scheme. From memory, it started in  1942  and, of course, it reached its heights after the war. The Government of the day was determined not to make the same mistakes as were made in other schemes before the war, so it employed the best men it could get. It employed agricultural scientists, agricultural economists, practical farmers and practical men in other fields to work out the best methods of sub-dividing land in the various States. But all the best brains in th_country in  1946, 1947, 1948  and  1949  could not have foreseen the rate of inflation that we have had in this country since that time, and nobody could have foreseen what has happened to our international markets, whether it be what has happened to the level of prices or the loss of markets. All of these things are variables which have to be taken into account. The budgets in that period were designed on the 'best possible information, and property sizes, whether in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, the Murray area, or parts of Tasmania. Western Australia, South Australia or even Queensland, were designed on the best available information. 
The one criticism I have on the physical side is that a lot of the country that was utilised for war service land settlement should never have been so utilised. This criticism applies particularly to settlement in the swamp country in Tasmania, some of the areas in Western Australia and some of the areas on the islands. But, then again, it is not an easy matter to go marching on to somebody's property and to say: 'We are going to take over your land and sub-divide it'. This in itself is a big step; it is an emotional step. A person who has built up his land over generations may be highly efficient. He does not want to lose his land. Nevertheless, the criteria adopted at that time in relation to war service land settlement had, without qualification, the backing of the Australian nation. The Australian people wanted to see the soldiers who had fought in World War II and who wanted land given the opportunity to have land, and that was the genesis of this scheme. 
We can learn a lot from the experience of the war service land settlement scheme. I feel that many problems have been generated through stubbornness on the part of the Federal Government, particularly in the last decade. I would place much of the blame for this on the Federal Treasury rather than on the Department of Primary Industry whose officers have their feet on the ground more than do those of the Treasury. There is plenty of evidence available on which to criticise the Government separately for its attitudes and policies on rentals and valuations. I believe that some alleviation should be given to many of the war service land settlers in relation to those 2 points. There should be a complete review of the principles and policies of the Government regarding rents and valuations. 
It is difficult to generalise regarding the success or otherwise of the war service land settlement scheme over the whole of Australia. One can point without question to areas in which it has been a success. On the other hand, one can point just as convincingly to other areas in which it has been close to a failure. From my knowledge of the subject, it would seem to me that  the  earlier soldier settlers, in the main anyhow, had the best chance of being fairly successful. I would not say that this was so in all areas; I am generalising although I know it is difficult to generalise. Those soldiers who entered the scheme in the early and middle 1950s have had major financial problems, particularly in relation to the size of properties and the inability to get sufficient productivity to get a sufficient cash income to pay the rent based on the valuation and to support their family. This, in a measure, is due to the twin problems of inflation - the increasing cost of production - and a reduction in  Teal  income due to stagnant or falling product prices. However, there is plenty of evidence available to enable us to learn from what has happened in war service land settlement. Even if the Government does not accept the Opposition's amendment, I hope that before very long we will have an inquiry of some type into the success or failure of the war service land settlement scheme, taking particular note of what has been learnt of its problems so that those problems will not be repeated. 
I have found that one can learn a lot from civilian land settlement schemes or war service land settlement schemes. I believe that if a government is to venture into closer settlement it has to do so properly. One land settlement scheme with which I am familiar and which I believe is an example of it being done properly is the brigalow land settlement scheme. Originally the brigalow land settlement scheme was to be for war service land settlement, but areas 1, 2 and 3 of the brigalow land settlement scheme as we know it is a civilian land settlement scheme. I believe that that scheme was based on the best possible principles regarding land settlement. Account was taken of the experience of the people in the area. Research into Acacia harpophyllia was conducted for many years. Also there were years of research in relation to the productivity of particular types of livestock from different types of brigalow country. After the results of all this work had been gathered together, the whole area was land classified in detail into more than 100 types of brigalow land, embracing brigalow scrub and its associated land classes. 
Then the study continued in relation to subdivision of the area. This included land classification, roads, communications, location of meat works, location of services, and the types of people who would be needed to take part in a civilian land settlement scheme. All of these factors were taken into account in devising that scheme. There were plenty of knockers; plenty of critics. But there was one thing that was insisted upon by the Commonwealth government of the day, and on which it was successful in opposing the Queensland Government, and that was the size of the property. The Commonwealth said that it could not back a major civilian land settlement scheme based on pocket handkerchief sized properties. After the budgets were prepared and while the negotiations continued, sometimes under the lap, the Queensland Government arrived at the size of property for the project. They were much bigger than it originally decided upon - significantly larger. But this was the safety valve because the first 2 years of that scheme were 2 of the worst drought years experienced in the area and a lot of people would have been bankrupted had it not been for the liberal size of their properties. 
Since that day schemes 1, 2 and 3 have progressed into a most successful project. The scheme was properly devised and involved years of research, years of experimentation and years of applied research before the land classifications for subdivision were drawn up. A tremendous area of land with some of the richest soils in Australia was involved. That area today is becoming one of the most concentrated cattle areas in Australia. In  20 to  30 years time, with the combination of summer grains and livestock and, to a limited degree, winter grains and cropping, it will resemble the corn belt of America. This area stretches from northern New South Wales, which years ago carried brigalow to the south of Clearmont. In that area civilian land settlement was carried out on very sound principles and it has been a success. 
Anybody, including the Government, can learn from some mistakes which were made in that scheme, and there were mistakes made. For example, too much land was cleared too quickly with the result that in the first couple of years of drought there occurred major problems of suckers. Some remarkable suckering occurred. In some brigalow country, after it was ringbarked or cleared, suckers of yellow wood came up. This species had not been seen in the paddocks since the white man came, yet these suckers emerged. The seeds had been dormant in the soil. In some areas this caused minor yellow wood poisoning. The incidence of suckering could be anticipated if there were proper inquiries and this is why the Opposition has moved the amendment for an inquiry into all aspects of war service land settlement with particular reference to rentals and values and in order to learn from other land settlement schemes. 1 hope the House will support the amendment. 
The amendment proposed by the Minister for 
National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  to clause 9 of the Agreement has been accepted, we assume, by all the States. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that environmental factors relating to planting are considered; in other words, that the States when carrying out reafforestation programmes will fully take into account environmental factors. The Opposition agrees to the amendment with, of course, the qualifications expressed during the debate on the second reading. As the Minister has said, softwood plantations are an important part of the present and future economy of Australia. Softwood plantations in Australia now cover a total of about one million acres. A big proportion of the softwood plantings are of the pin us radiata variety which has proven itself to be a valuable timber. This pine was introduced into Australia almost a century ago. I think I am right in saying that it is a native of southern California and is often referred to as the Monterey pine. The pinus radiata matures in about 40 years. It is one of the fastest growing softwoods and is certainly fast growing in comparison to the eucalypts. 
Research into the growth habits of pinus radiata has shown that it can increase productivity at the rate of 200 to 300 cubic feet per acre per annum. Over the period of maturity of 40 years the productivity increases at the rate of about 12,000 cubic feet per acre per annum, or about 144,000 super feet per acre per annum. Although the growth rates of eucalypts are quite reasonable, in comparison with pinus radiata the latter has a tremendous growth rate per acre, with consequent productivity values. 
Pinus radiata is an excellent commercial timber, superior in many respects to the douglas fir. Other species of pine are being planted in the sub-tropical areas of northern New South Wales and Queensland. I have in mind the loblolly, slash and patula varieties. These varieties are making a mark as are other types in Western Australia. It is clear that the environmental factors have to be considered. In the clearing of timber regard must be had to ecological and environmental influences. Erosion effects must also be considered when clearing, whether by a bulldozer, a ball and chain, or a D9 with a chain. Once the understorey has been removed, particularly on undulating or sloping country, severe gully erosion can occur. All these points are taken into account by foresters. A consequence of the amendment will be that the Commonwealth will become more conscious of the environment. Planting methods demand that environmental factors be taken into account. Planting patterns, including corridor plantings, have regard to the existing breeding habits of animals and birds. Fire control must also be considered. One of the great advantages of reafforestation is in the direction of improved fire control, either through continuous policing of the reafforestation areas on the ground or through the use of new techniques from the air. AH these things are important. 
I believe that there are good reasons to consider the environmental aspects, although I am not as keen or dedicated a conservationist as my friend the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  We beg to differ on many points. Because I am at heart a developer, it does not mean that T do not take into account or am not conscious of environmental factors. I can draw upon my experience in the field of natural resource development and the results over the years of not taking conservation fully into account. In northern Australia there are tremendous areas of black spear grass. Yet when one looks at writings about the early history of man and explorers rarely is there any mention of black spear grass, or heteropagon contortus as it is known. Most of the grasses referred to were soft grasses such as the blue grass varieties, the kangaroo grasses - themeda australis. Rarely is there any mention of black spear grass. When man settled areas man started to do 2 things - to graze his animals and to fire the country. Black spear grass immediately became a dominant pasture, completely replacing the blue grass varieties which are the softer grasses. We saw in the northern parts of Australia a predominance of black spear grass and the kangaroo grasses. Both these species of grass have a type of horn or seed which can bury itself into the ground, thereby escaping temperatures of about 200 degrees during a fire. These species are able to promote their growth after a fire occurs but the soft grasses such as the blue grass varieties are wiped out. One has only to look at dairy farms in areas where there has hardly ever been any burning off to find that there are still large areas in the middle of the heteropagon contortus pastures, of blue grass. This is the proof of environmental factors not being fully considered in the burning of pastures. 
Anybody conversant with animal husbandry as it applies in the northern parts of Australia knows that it is necessary to burn off to get rid of the dry matter before the onset of the wet season or the spring rains. It is a question of marrying conservation and development. This is what will have to be done in the future. It is a question of marrying development and conservation in order to give a balance. I give that only as an example to show that the giving of insufficient attention to a particular problem has completely changed the distribution of a certain type of valuable pasture in northern Australia after man came into the area. 
We have to be careful, when we start to develop very large areas by clearing the country and planting new species of timber, to ensure that we do not alter the ecology of those areas. I have great respect for foresters. I think that in all States they are fully conscious of environmental factors but it does not hurt to give them a nudge or two occasionally to let them know that this Parliament is now taking a great interest in environmental factors in re-afforestation programmes which are so important to this nation. The Opposition supports the amendment. 
Progress reported. 
The great difference between the Liberal Party and the Labor Party has just been illustrated by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  He would abolish the tariff on textiles and adopt the laissezfaire approach. He would close down all the- 
The honourable member for Wakefield just said he would abolish the tariff on the importation of shirts into Australia. Is that not what the honourable member said? 
You would not be even capable of listening.  His  statement was that because the value of the tariff is the equivalent of $45m we would be better off importing the shirts - in other words, putting out of employment thousands of people. This means nothing to the Liberal Party. It means a lot to the Labor Party. We are discussing, at present, the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry and each member has 10 minutes in which to discuss these 3 important departments. I will agree with the honourable member for Wakefield that this has degenerated into a grievance debate as far as this side of the chamber is concerned and, on the Government side, members are just trying to get a few hobby-horses across. My speech will be no exception to what has been happening. 
I should have hoped that, before this, there would have been some statement on the Government's intentions in relation to the Australian Wool Commission and its amalgamation with the Australian Wool Board. I would also have expected a statement as to what the Government intends to do concerning a time limit for the acquisition plan. What time limit will the Government impose on the new corporation, whatever it may be called? Will it put to the Parliament a timetable with respect to acquisition? Apparently, we shall have to wait until the relevant Bill comes before the House. 
I am pleased to hear that. One thing that concerns me is that the Government has been in power for 23 years - almost a quarter of a century - and we still have not a positive plan for the alleviation of suffering caused by national disasters, particularly drought. Already this year there are all the signs that we could be running into another series of droughts. We will be faced again with the ad hoc, unco-ordinated policies of the Federal Government with respect to drought. Wait until the crisis comes! Wait until people have lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in various regions! Wait until human misery reaches the heights until action is taken with respect to drought! 
I know as well as most people that there are a lot of things that cannot be done to counter droughts. In. western Queensland and other marginal areas of Australia it is extremely difficult to implement positive policies except with respect to transport, assistance with payment of rates and long term finance and special loans. But there are a lot of things that can be done in various places. In some areas of Australia water is recognised as a limiting factor with respect to the problems of production as soon as seasonal distress comes. In respect of one project alone, it has taken this Government 2 years to act. I would hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  would read the riot act to the Department of National Development if that Department is to blame. It has taken the department concerned 2 years to make up its mind as to what will be done with respect to a small irrigation scheme, the North Eton irrigation scheme which is based on sugar. It involves exactly the same principle as the Monduram Dam at Bundaberg. It is a matter of benefit cost analysis. If the Department gave me the relative cost benefit details I could work out the answer in a week. 
There is no need to laugh. I could work out with the aid of a computer whether such a scheme would be viable. I think that it has been worked out. Why have the farmers in that area, an area which is susceptible to drought, had their land frozen insofar as they cannot sell or develop their properties while they are waiting for this Government to make up its mind? Surely the Minister must have had a lot of requests through canegrowers organisations. I have had them. The Premier of Queensland has referred them to the Federal Government but still there is no answer. The only answer I can get from the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  is the almost parrot like answer which he gives almost every month by saying that he hopes to make a decision soon. 
I have sufficient time in this debate only to give that one example but there are others. I refer to the electorate of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  There is a crying need in the Monto area for water conservation. It does not need to be a grandiose scheme. In this area a small scheme would be of tremendous benefit for the established and proven primary industries. 
The delay in taking decisions is frustrating. I can remember 3 years ago speaking in this chamber on the subject of drought at a time when wheat quotas were imposed throughout Australia and I asked this Government seriously to consider the No. 2 pool for wheat surplus and to increase storage facilities, some of which could be strategically located in drought areas. 1 suggested that the Government should plan for future seasons when we may not have enough wheat because of crop failures. This is exactly what is happening now. Let me cite the figures which I consider are the best available with respect to the wheat crop this year. For the year 1971-72 the Australian Wheat Board started with a carry-over of 127 million bushels. The new crop delivered for sale of approximately 281 million bushels gave a total of 408 million bushels. The estimated sale for the 1971-72 crop was about 360 million bushels which left a carryover of about 56 million bushels. The estimated crop this year is 255 million bushels, giving a total of 311 million bushels. The estimated sale for this season will again be about 360 million bushels. This means there will be a deficit of approximately 50 million bushels. If we had some type of reserve, which we must have in Australia, of about 40 million bushels the deficit would be about 90 million bushels. We do not have that amount of wheat. 
In other words, we will lose our traditional international markets because we simply will not have enough wheat to supply those markets. This is not good policy. It does not matter what the Government says. It is not good to say that we lost those markets because of a deficit this year. It is a question of an inefficient quota system in relation to international demand. We should have more storage facilities. We should have sufficient reserves as was advocated 3 years ago by the Opposition not only with respect to wheat supplies for the international markets but also supplies for surplus feed strategically located in storages for use in times of drought. 
All these things need to be looked at carefully. What I am submitting is that we could get another scries of droughts. In some areas the signs are that this could happen. What are the Government's plans for those areas in which something can be done? I am the first to admit that there are a lot of areas in Australia in which very little positive action can be taken except in regard to policies on transport and finance, but there are other areas - I mentioned 2 of them, including one in the electorate of the honourable member for Kennedy - in which something positive could be done. But we cannot get any decision from this Government. What is going to happen? If there is a drought in the sugar areas of Mackay this year there will be a tremendous clamouring for a decision but it will be too late. A decision should have been taken at least 18 months ago on the Eton irrigation project. The dam and the reticulation system could virtually have been completed by now and the people in that area could look forward to water in the future. It is not a matter of opening up new or undeveloped areas like the Ord River or the Nogoa area. I am speaking about established and proven areas where the losses can easily be measured over past years. The cumulative value of losses in these susceptible drought areas are greater than the cost of the head works for many projects. 
In the time remaining to me in this debate I want also to say that I hope the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  will give serious consideration to adopting a positive plan for accelerating the eradication of tuberculosis and brucelosis in cattle. This should be done in conjunction with a compensation plan. At this point of time when meat is in relatively short supply in relation to demand it is possible that the emphasis on these problems is not very great. But it could easily happen in the immediate future with a change in the politics of the United States Government that lobbyists could get into action with the result that serious problems could occur in Australia with respect to brucelosis and tuberculosis in cattle. We need a streamlined programme to eradicate those diseases as quickly as possible. At the same time there would have to be complementary legislation with respect to adequate compensation for producers throughout Australia who would co-operate with the Federal Government. This is a national responsibility. I have not the slightest doubt that every producer in Australia wants to get rid of brucelosis and tuberculosis. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr  Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to  make a personal explanation. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the comments on wheat, when the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was speaking it was implied by the Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that I was conniving to stop wheat sales to China. That is a deliberate - I cannot say 'lie'; it was deliberately false. It is personally offensive to me. It is completely untrue. I ask for an unreserved withdrawal and apology. 
I want to speak briefly on the matters raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  regarding constitutional reform in the Northern Territory and to refute his claim that the Labor Party has stated that the Northern Territory should have self-government immediately. He did not elaborate on it and tell us who in the Labor Party said that or whether it was said in the Northern Territory or in Canberra, but to the best of my knowledge this has never been said by any member of the Labor Party. I have made it very clear over the years - and I used to speak a lot on the Northern Territory - that I believe there should be an accelerated programme of constitutional reform for the Nothern Territory and that that constitutional reform should proceed step by step in an orderly manner. But I have criticised, and I still criticise, the Government for the fact that although it has been in power for 23 years we still have not a plan, or an announced plan, for a programme which will progressively lead up to self-government for the Northern Territory. 
On 3rd November 1971 I made the following statement in the House: 
What is needed is a progressive  step  by step plan. This is a prerequisite to political development in the Northern Territory. 
This is the Australian Labor Party's policy. The honourable member for the Northern Territory said that we were demanding self-government for the Northern Territory immediately. This is not Labor's policy. We want a step by step progressive and accelerated policy for the constitutional reform of the Northern Territory. This would occur in the following manner. Our policy is for a fully elected Legislative Council in the Northern Territory. Such an objective will not and could not be achieved overnight. The present members of the Legislative Council realise this. 
However, it could be achieved quickly. A fully elected Legislative Council could consist initially of, say, IS or 16 members of which the non-elected members would perhaps be no more than 2 in number. The Legislative Council would need the Crown Law Officer, a man familiar with the laws in the Northern Territory, and perhaps the Assistant Administrator who is concerned with relationships between Canberra and the Northern Territory Administration. That balance would be needed until the various functions were progressively handed over. 
In the first instance it is axiomatic that there are certain powers which could be and are being given to the Legislative Council, I refer to powers relating to such organisations as the police force and prisons. The need to hand over such powers is self-explanatory. The second type of power which can be phased in would of course be powers relating to statutory boards, sewerage, water, power, fisheries, motor vehicles, cold stores, wildlife, parks. The handing over of these powers would follow as a natural progression. The two dicey areas, of course, are lands and minerals and. of course, treasury-like functions. The Government, of course, will hang on to lands and minerals for as long as it can. We have seen what has happened in northern Australia during the years that the Government has been in power. The Government would not want the people of the Northern Territory to control the lands and minerals of the Northern Territory. I believe that this will be the la.st thing that will be given to the Legislative Council in terms of absolute power. But such a change must come over time. The same thing will happen in regard to treasury-like functions. Therefore in the end there will be a step towards self-government. 
The Commonwealth Government in time will create a Northern Territory Legislative Council, or whatever we like to call it, capable of self-government, with a Cabinet consisting of Northern Territory ministers who will handle the functions 1 have mentioned, namely statutory boards or police and prison-like functions, matters dealing with land and minerals and lastly the delicate matter of Commonwealth-State financial relationships. This type of development surely is no different from the way 
Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland grew to a state of self-government. The Commonwealth of Australia as a nation gave assistance to those States. I can see no reason why in the immediate future the Northern Territory should not go ahead step by step towards selfgovernment. 
Executive power over State-like functions but gradually then leading into full self-government of the Northern Territory. 
I will again go over the 4 steps that I see will take place as 1 see them. Firstly I refer to what is happening now with respect to obvious matters such as police and prisons. Secondly the Legislative Council will have complete control over statutory boards. Thirdly, and most importantly, it will take control of lands and minerals. Then it will take over the treasury-like functions and Commonwealth-State relationships. Honourable members may ask me whether the Legislative Council should take over responsibility for Aborigines. My answer to that question is that I do not know. As one who lives amongst Aborigines frankly I do not know what the best policy is. I do not know whether the Northern Territory itself should handle Aboriginal welfare or whether this should be a national responsibility handled directly by the Federal Government. I know that this question is open to argument among members from both sides of the House. The honourable member for the Northern Territory would have his own views as to whether self-government for the Northern Territory should in fact include complete control over the Aborigines who live in the Northern Territory. 
My own personal view would be that the Commonwealth should have control at all times over the future welfare of these people. I would like to see this happen in Queensland and in all States of the Commonwealth because I believe that this would be the best way in which the welfare of Aborigines would be looked after from a national point of view. This would be preferable to having a proliferation of State and local government laws in regard to Aborigines. However, as I hav * said, 1 do not really know what should be done. I am not qualified to speak on that subject, but from mixing with Aborigines and having lived with them over the years I do know some of their problems and I think this is a national responsibility. 
That is all I want to say on this matter. I just wanted to make it clear to the honourable member for the Northern Territory, who is now in the chamber, what is the Labor Party's policy in regard to selfgovernment of the Northern Territory. I wanted to refute the statement he made that the Australian Labor Party wants selfgovernment now. I have never said this. The honourable member can read in Hansard what I have said. Also if he likes, he can read what 1 have said in the Northern Territory papers. I hope that all members of the Australian Labor Party are saying what 1 have just put to the chamber - that what we want is a much faster appreciation of the need for progress in the Northern Territory towards constitutional reform. I believe in the next 3 years, and no longer, irrespective of what government is in power, a plan should be put forward to the Northern Territory people which will outline step by step the Northern Territory's progress towards self-government. This plan would outline the points that I made regarding the various powers that the Northern Territory Legislative Council would take over, which would lead to a Northern Territory cabinet, whatever one likes to call it, and under-secretaries who would be the equivalent of Ministers, until full self-government is given to the Northern Territory. When this stage is reached the Northern Territory will, of course, have to rely on Commonwealth assistance just the same as the States of Australia today rely on Commonwealth assistance, and will do so for a long time to come. 
Yes, like Papua New Guinea, for example. If this Government had done half as much for the Northern Territory as it has done for Papua New Guinea constitutional reform in the Northern Territory would be much more advanced than it is at the moment. 
I have spoken in this debate to make the record clear. I am sorry that the honourable member for the Northern Territory was not in the chamber to hear the start of my speech. I want to make it perfectly clear that I fully endorse the need for greater constitutional reform in the Northern Territory but this should be achieved step by step, taking into account the problems which the people of the Northern Territory appreciate and understand, and then leading progressively to selfgovernment. In the next 3 years, irrespective of what government is in power, the government should sit down with the people of the Northern Territory and announce a plan for self-government. Lastly, I believe that we should give the people of the Northern Territory a vote in the Senate. They had it up to 1911. Why should they be denied, as are the people of the Australian Capital Territory, a vote in the Senate? After all, they are Australians, and the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are fully entitled to take their place in constitutional government. They are not second class citizens as this Government apparently states they are. They have the same rights as the rest of the people of Australia. We have a vote in the Senate with the exception of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. Why should not the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory have a vote? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! Does the honourable gentleman desire to make a personal explanation? 

 - Mr Speaker, the next matter that was supposed to come before us was the estimates for the Department of National Development. I understand that some arrangement has been made by which the very important estimates of the Department of National Development will not be debated until some later date. I have just consulted my Whip about this matter and we know nothing about any arrangement. I have been sitting here since 8.15 tonight waiting for the debate on these estimates, and I express my complete dissatisfaction with what has transpired. I agree with what the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  has said. He has obviously made some arrangement, but I think it is a pretty poor show when Opposition members have been marshalled to speak on these most important estimates for the Department of National Development to be told only at this moment - I have just told the Opposition Whip myself of the position - that they will not come on until some later hour, probably tomorrow. I express my deep dissatisfaction with the way this Parliament is being run in relation to the debate on these estimates. 
 I regret that I was unable to be here this morning due to illness. I was unable also to hear some of the speeches that were made but I did hear the speeches of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  The interesting thing about the honourable member for Wakefield is that he never ceases to take the opportunity to try to rubbish members of the Opposition on a personal basis. The trouble with the honourable member for Wakefield is that he goes around the countryside posing as some type of idiot. The tragedy of the matter is that it is sticking in a modest way. Both the honourable member for Corangamite and the honourable member for Wakefield have pointed out one of the deficiencies in this Bill in that apparently it is aimed almost exclusively at preserving the auction system until some other system is brought into effect. So to test the sincerity of those 2 honourable members the Opposition will move the amendment which has been circulated to clause 38(1.) (a). The amendment will be to add the words *or otherwise'. As both honourable members know, this will mean that we will not be restricted to the auction system. It makes it quite clear that account can be then taken of Economic Wool Producers Limited and any other organisation. So we will just see how good those honourable members are when it comes to the vote. So often in this Parliament we have heard the type of criticism which they made,, and then when a substantive motion is moved to clarify the position, what do Government members do? 
This, is not the type of debate in which we are used to hearing from the Postmaster-General. We know he is to retire shortly and we understand that he is interested in taking up some stud rams with his cattle. That is probably why he is here. 
Looking at you, 1 would not want to be. The Opposition supports the object of this Bill which is to amalgamate the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission. This has been part of our policy. We have stated it in the Parliament and outside the Parliament for a number of years. However, there are some very grave deficiencies in this Bill. The principal deficiency, as members of the Opposition see it, is that it does not contain any specific instructions to the Corporation to bring in any detailed plan of acquisition. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said: 
Rather than delay action ... the Government decided ... to specifically empower the new Wool Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and to prepare a detailed plan for  a  compulsory acquisition scheme. 
The Minister made this quite clear in his second reading speech, but honourable members should try to find it in the Bill itself. The closest one can get to it is clause 38, sub-clause (o). So the Opposition will move in Committee its amendment which refers specifically to acquisition and also stipulates that an acquisition plan should be brought before the Parliament, within  6.  months. Despite what the Minister says in his second reading speech, the Bill does not actually instruct the Corporation to bring in a detailed acquisition plan in a specified time. Secondly, the Bill does not even give the Corporation the power to acquire wool even if there were an approved acquisition scheme. It is quite obvious thai this Bil) is a compromise between the pressures exerted by the Liberal Party and those exerted by the Country Party. The Bill is toothless as regards its powers. Its powers are no wider than those of the Wool Commission as regards the buying and selling of wool. Of course, it allows the Liberals to go to their friends the brokers and say: 'Well, this is the end of acquisition'. It allows the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to say: 'Acquisition is just around the corner'. He said that last June or July, but nowhere in the Bill is there any specific instruction to the corporation to bring to the Parliament a detailed plan on acquisition. 
The events of the last 2 or 3 weeks, i believe, have shown more than ever the necessity for marketing reform. As has been pointed out, we are not in a boom period if we look at prices in real terms. We have to look at the cost of production in relation to prices. For  2i  years we have had nothing but procrastination on the part of the Liberal-Country Party Government. We have had  2i  years of promises regarding marketing reform and acquisition. Celebrated committees have been set up to look at these matters and they have been chaired by celebrated public servants. We have had  Sir John  Crawford's report and  Sir Richard  Randall's report, and now the Corporation is to investigate the same matters as were investigated by  Sir John  Crawford and  Sir Richard  Randall, and again apparently it will bring in another report. 
Another alibi, as my honourable colleague says. What happens then? We know what will happen. The infamous inter-departmental committee will then meet and examine the Corporation's report. So the circle goes around and around. By the time the inter-departmental committee meets and considers the plan it will probably be shelved or it will be so out of date that another committee will have to be established to examine the matter. This has been the sorry state of this Government for  2i  years. If this Government really wanted marketing reforms and if' it really wanted an acquisition scheme; within or without the auction system or combining both, it would have put such a proposal to the Australian Agricultural Council .for examination months or years ago. The fact is that the Government does not want these things because the coalition is torn apart by vested interests, particularly from the wool brokers' point of view.  
The honourable member for Wakefield stresses the point - he is completely right - that complementary legislation is needed. Of course it is. Every stabilisation scheme of any note in which the Commonwealth has taken part - this applies to any matter that one would like to mention - has to have complementary legislation in the States. Anybody knows this. There is nothing new in this. One of the problems of the acquisition scheme in relation to the Constitution, as I see it, will be the problem of acquiring all the clip. I cannot see any problem in acquiring that proportion of the clip which is exported - this will be the major portion of the clip - but there may be problems in acquiring that portion of. the clip which is to be consumed locally. However, this is such a small proportion of the clip that really it is irrelevant to the major issue. In the last 3 weeks we have seen dramatic increases in wool prices and a dramatic change in the economy of wool. 
It is interesting to look at some of the predictions which were made when wool prices were at a disastrously low level  by  the so called experts, the arm chair economists, wool growers, industry leaders and others. They gave us various reasons why prices could not possibly rise to any great extent. Now the same experts are giving us the reasons why prices have risen. I want to know what is going to happen in the future. The principal point I want to hammer home is that this is all the more need for stabilisation In the industry; it is all the more need for a stabilised price based on acquisition ".in der a reserve price plan. One can form 3 basic conclusions from this reversal of form, if one wants to call it that, in wool prices. 
One irrefutable fact is that price is determined by supply and demand. The forces of demand have obviously changed - that, is elementary. But the point is that this dramatic increase in prices has been manmade. It has not been caused by some issue which we can explain - an issue like the Korean war, drought or some extraneous thing that suddenly hit the market. It is man-made and this leads us to the conclusion that nobody has the ability to predict with certainty the behaviour of wool prices in Australia or, for that matter, in the world. These violent fluctuations we have seen in the last 3 years again point to the fact that we must have marketing reform with some degree of stability to iron out the fluctuations and give security to this great industry. Although the current trend in prices is wonderful news to the wool growers let us not forget that there are some uncertain and possibly dangerous elements in sudden increases in wool prices. First of all, the problem of instability and uncertainty is created because nobody knows what is going to happen even next week. Then there is the effect on consumer prices. We have heard all sorts of outlandish statements from the textile industry to the effect that the cost of suits will increase. We have heard of the effect on land prices and on the bankers' policies in regard to the wool industry and the effect of synthetics. Will current wool prices mean that there will be a dramatic surge in the synthetics field? All these uncertainties need to be looked at and are why we need to have stability by way of a stabilisation scheme in respect of acquisition. 
If the increase in the price of wool has a quantitative cause - and this must be so because it is an increase in demand relative to supply - why could the experts not predict this increase with some degree of reliability? It is no good saying that they did because we know that they did not and we know that nobody now is game to put his neck out and say what will happen to wool prices in 2 months time. We can all have our personal views, but so what! There can be all the econometric arguments under the sun about what has happened over the last 3 weeks but none of them will show why wool prices have suddenly increased as they have. We can build in our models but it still remains that nobody can predict what is to happen. If we had this acquistion scheme now - we should have had it at least 12 months ago - possibly some of this money could have gone into the revolving acquisition fund. Anybody who has any knowledge of stabilisation knows that the best time to implement a stabilisation scheme in any industry is when prices are moderate or good, not when prices are bedrock. This is the best time. It is the most happy time for all concerned at which to bring in a stabilisation scheme. 
The honourable member for Wakefield has asked me to comment on the Labor Party's policy on acquistion. I do not know how many times in this House I have given it. I will not go over it again and spell it out in detail but will give the honourable member a copy of it. It is there for all to see. Basically it embraces 3 broad principles. Firstly, there is the establishment of a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the Australian wool clip on behalf of wool growers. Secondly, there is the implementation of a reconstruction scheme to assist in the solution of problems of production and to streamline selling methods. And thirdly, there is the provision of a tariff compensation bounty. Our attitude on the acquistion scheme is set out in black and white. There is one thing that is needed and I am glad to see that the Minister for Primary Industry is now in the chamber. As I have already said. I regret that I was not here this morning. 
Yes. Both the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Corangamite have raised the question of the Bill being slanted heavily towards the auction system. In the Committee stages I will move an amendment to add simply the words 'or otherwise' which will make it quite clear that we should take into account or protect the rights of economic wool producers and other organisations. I also want to hear the Minister speak on this subject because it is very important. What this wool Bill does is preserve and make stronger the auction system in Australia under the present legislation. The major deficiency in the Bill is that it does not make any provision for a report to the Parliament within a specified time. In his second reading speech the Minister said:   . . the new Wool Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and to prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme. . . . 
The Opposition agrees with that but we want to see those words written into the legislation. We also want to see a time period stated in the legislation rather than there being allowed some fanciful time in the future which could mean 3 months, 6 months or 5 years. After all, one of the main reasons why this Bill has been introduced is to amalgamate the Wool Board and the Wool Commission and allow the Corporation to introduce an acquisition scheme and then operate the acquisition scheme. This Bill is not good enough the way it is drafted. These provisions have to be written in specifically. When I listened to the Minister's second reading speech I was very pleased to hear these matters promised, but when I looked at the Bill I could not find them. The nearest reference I could find was in clause 38 (i) (o). It is essential that a time limit be attached to this. We just cannot go on and on having more committees inquiring into the acquisition of wool or any equivalent method. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  as we all know, had something to say on acquisition. 
I am glad he has interjected because on 10th August 1970 he warned Prime Minister Gorton that any attempt to interfere with the auction system would bring about the disintegration of the Liberal Party and the downfall of the coalition Government. He said: 'We licked them before and we will lick them again'. He is a Liberal Party member. How on earth can the Country Party associate itself with these types of ideas? But it does so and this is the tragedy of the coalition Government. The Country Party lets statements like that go unchallenged. Why does somebody in the Country Party not stand up and tell the honourable member for Mitchell the facts of life? And why does the honourable member for Mitchell not stand up here and say what I have read out? Of course he would not because there is an election coming on. He speaks outside the Parliament and rubbishes the coalition but why does he not come inside the Parliament and say the words which I have read out? 1 would like to have much longer to speak on this subject of supply and demand. 
The honourable member for Wakefield voted in this House for the wheat stabilisation scheme and for the first advance payment. He knows very well that that restricts the supply of wheat in Australia under the quota system. Why does he not rubbish the wheat quota system or the international Sugar Agreement? Why does he not rubbish the 2 price stabilisation scheme for the dairying industry or the tobacco industry legislation? These schemes are all designed to try to balance supply and demand, a principle I support. I accept what the honourable member has said about difficulties in livestock production. We are all aware of those difficulties. Members of the Country Party many times have said inside and outside of this House that there may be need for supply management. I accept that also. In general I believe it is a good principle to try to balance supply and demand. Business does this as do farmers. We all try to do it. 
I have 3 amendments which relate to clauses 38 and 40 which, in part, read:  (1.) The functions of the Corporation include the following functions: - 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction; 
to inquire into (whether alone or in cooperation with other authorities and other organisations), and from time to time report to the Minister and to the Australian Wool Industry Conference upon, methods of marketing wool (including any changes in wool marketing procedures that the Corporation considers necessary to enable the Corporation to exercise control over the marketing of all wool produced in Australia) and any other matters connected with the marketing of wool; and 
Without limiting the generality of sub-section (4.) of section 20 of this Act,the powers of the Corporation include the power to- 
inspect and appraise wool presented for sale at auction; 
buy wool at auction or otherwise; 
sell wool the property of the Corporation at auction or otherwise, or make other arrangements for ths disposal of such wool; 
make arrangements for the processing of wool, whether the property of the Corporation or not, before the sale of the wool; 
obtain market intelligence; 
operate a wool statistical service; and 
for the purposes of the function referred to in paragraph (p) of sub-section (1.) of section 38 of this Act - 
erect buildings, demolish and remove buildings and effect improvements to buildings; 
grant to brokers or other persons leases, licences or other rights in respect of any land, building or equipment; and 
lend moneys to persons requiring financial assistance for the purpose of providing a wool-selling centre. 
I move: 
In clause 38, at the end of paragraph (a) of sub-clause (1.) add 'or otherwise'. 
In clause 38, after paragraph (o) insert the following paragraph: (oa) to formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation, for a scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament withinsix months of the commencement of this Act; and'. 
In clause 40, at the end of the clause add the following paragraph: 
make arrangements for the operation of an approved marketing scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip.'. 
I listened carefully to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and his assurance concerning forms of marketing of wool other than the auction system as we know it. However, I am still unable to understand why the Act cannot be broadened. I cannot understand why there would be restraints - the word used by the Minister - on the functions and powers of the Australian Wool Corporation. I believe that there is an inconsistency. Clause 38 provides: (1.) The functions of the Corporation include the following functions: 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction. 
If we look at clause 40 we find that the powers of the Corporation include the power to: 
buy wool at auction or otherwise. 
Clause 40 (b) contains the words 'or otherwise' which mean that the Corporation has power to operate a flexible reserve price scheme other than the auction system as we know it. To me it follows that if the Commission is to buy wool at auction or otherwise, the reserve price scheme also must operate at auction or otherwise. This is consistent. I do not think anybody would deny the logic of that statement. If in logic the words 'or otherwise' are part of clause 40 (b) I cannot see why they should not appear in clause 38 (l.)(a). 
I believe that the assurance is implicit in clause 40 (b) because the provision 'buy wool at auction or otherwise' gives that assurance in writing. Why not make it beyond doubt that the flexible reserve price scheme will apply also to other operations such as those through Economic Wool Producers Ltd, or whatever sphere clause 40 (b) refers to? If it does not, to me it is inconsistent. I cannot see why the words or otherwise' could not be inserted in clause 38 (1.) (a). That would make the provision clear to everybody. It would be consistent with clause 40 (b) and would mean buying and selling under the reserve price scheme. 
I say that because I believe that the addition of these words would clear the matter up in everybody's mind and it would mean also mat the doubts being expressed by some people - we have heard these doubts today - regarding the auction system by sealed bids by tender in relation to sampling would be covered. The inclusion of the words 'or otherwise' would remove those doubts. If these words are not added, clause 38 (l.)(a) is inconsistent with clause 40(b). It is possible that the Minister for Primary Industry will say that because the provision is found in clause 40(b) it follows that it applies in respect of clause 38(l.)(a). Why not include these words in clause 38 (l.)(a)? This would completely clarify the position in respect of the other organisations that are operating in a modified auction system. 
Firstly let me say that I was appalled by the statements made by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  I do not really believe that he believes what he said. Any person who argues on a laissez faire basis in regard to primary products ought to get his head read. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  of course, is also one of those people who are free traders. If he went up into my sugar area and talked like that he would be laughed at. The sugar industry has the most successful acquisition scheme in the world, lt is the best organised industry in Australia. 
The Australian Labor Party in Queensland introduced it a long time before Jack McEwen ever entered this Parliament. Acquisition is a socialistic idea! The wheat industry quota systems introduced by this Government, which are the basis of orderly marketing in Australia and the wheat stabilisation schemes are 2 methods which are opposed to laissez-faire. Every country in the world has some production controls and implicit or explicit restraints on production. The days of laissez-faire- 
There is one thing certain: I would never agree to see laissezfaire in export primary industry. 
The tobacco industry is highly successful and the sugar industry is highly successful. One can go right through these industries. 
The honourable member can speak afterwards. It is quite clear that the continued refusal of this Government to take a positive decision on urgent wool marketing reform based on the need to introduce as quickly as possible an acquisition scheme shows again the weakness of the coalition Government Every major wool growers' organisation in Australia and the so called wool parliament of Australia is 100 per cent behind the acquisition scheme. We know that the Liberal Party is opposed to acquisition. One only has to go around the wool growers of Australia to hear what they think of the Liberal Party. It is quite clear that because this Government has political allegiance to the wool brokers and the pastoral firms this is the reason why for 2 years it has been stalling. The most important paragraph in the Minister's second reading speech states: 
Rather than delay action on the industry proposals the Government decided to proceed with the merging of the Wool Board and the Wool Commission and to specifically empower the new Wool Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and to prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme, clearly defined in all respects. 
Why is this not in the Bill? The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr  King)  says that it is in clause 38 (1 .) (o). The Bill does not once mention when this Corporation will report to the Minister. That, is why we have moved an amendment which . if accepted will mean that the Corporation will report to the Parliament within 6 months. 1 am certain that every wool grower who supports acquisition of the clip would want the Corporation to report to the Parliament through the Minister within 6 months. That is the whole basis of the second amendment. It is all right to say in an airy-fairy way that this is set out in sub-clause (l.)(o). lt is not set out in the way that the Minister stated in his second reading speech. 
The Minister has already indicated that he will oppose the amendments. I hope that when he replies he will give the Parliament some indication of the length of time that will elapse before me Corporation is to make its detailed acquisition report to the Minister. Will it simply be another committee of inquiry? We had the Crawford report. We had the Randall report. We had the Australian Wool Industry Conference report. Now we are to have the Corporation's report. And then there will be an interdepartmental committee's report. How long is this going to go on? 
Everyone in this Parliament wants to see the best possible marketing reform introduced into the wool industry. Surely it is not going to take another 6 months of comprehensive investigation to achieve this. 
We are not all as silly as you. Acquisition is something which has been tried. Unfortunately it is a word which is bandied around too much without a lot of thought being given to it. An acquisition scheme has been proposed in Australia for years. The principle has operated in this and other countries for years. There is plenty of experience to learn from but one thing which this Government wants to preserve is the auction system. That is what the Liberal Party in particular wants to preserve at all costs. The auction system is the most archaic method of selling a commodity. Despite what the Country Party members say in their electorates they also want to preserve it. Why is it that there is no specific mention in this Bill of an acquisition scheme and more particularly a specific direction or instruction by the Minister requiring the Corporation to bring to him a scheme within a certain period? Perhaps he has given this, I do not know. Perhaps he has already indicated that he wants a report on this fairly quickly. This is something which he should make clear because it is really the key to this whole matter. The amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission is something which should have occurred years ago. 
We should have had a statutory authority and a reserve price scheme years ago. I know that the honourable member for Wakefield opposed this. 
We know that. You oppose things outside the House and vote for them in the house, but when have you voted against your own party in this House? These amendments are the key to the whole future of marketing reform in Australia and what the Corporation will do in regard to marketing reform. I compliment the Minister for the way in which he prepared this second reading speech, in which he made crystal clear that what he wants is a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme. This is what the Opposition wants. All we are saying is that in this Bill there is no mention of this and, more importantly, there is no mention of the time within which the Corporation should make a report. We want to know how long it will take to bring it in, or will this simply be another procrastinating authority which will bring in a half-baked report at some point of time in the future and at that time further inquiries will be made? 
In respect of the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill 1972I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of opinion that The 
Schedule should make provision for (a) applications to be accepted up to 30th June 1974, and (b) assistance to be paid for trees removed up to 31st October 1974'. 
In actual fact this amendment extends the period of the operation of this legislation for a further 12 months. We are dealing this evening with 2 Bills. Unfortunately when we are considering apples and pears in this cognate debate it must be remembered that there are fresh apples and fresh pears and canning peaches and canning pears. First let us consider the situation with respect to fresh apples and fresh pears. This year there has been a serious decline in the economics of the apple export trade. There has been a reduction of more than 30 per cent in export availability. Despite the fact that a lower volume has been sold for export, prices have not been very good. On the world markets, South Africa has increased its exports significantly by more than 30 per cent and New Zealand also has increased her exports significantly. There can be no question that both the fresh and canning fruit export industries are in a precarious position. Over the last few years freight rates have risen consistently. Today we have the intolerable situation of the freight rate charged for the shipment of apples being almost 60 per cent of the value of the commodity exported. The industry has attempted to do something positive about this in Tasmania under the one export licence concept - Tasfruit Pty Ltd. It has attempted to make some savings in freight by block cargo deliveries, the rationalisation of ports through which exports are made and the virtual end of the sorting of fruit at British ports. I understand from reading reports that Tasfruit Pty Ltd has saved approximately $1m through its operations in this way. 
But the hard facts are that the freight rates in the fruit industry relative to the value of the commodity are at an intolerably high level. We have seen big jumps not of 2 and 3 per cent but of 20 and 25 per cent in freight rates. This is a situation which is particularly dangerous and it places a State like Tasmania in a very precarious economic position, because there is no sector of primary industry in Australia more at the mercy of the uncertain export markets than is the Tasmanian fruit industry. Over 90 per cent of the gross returns from the sale of alt apples and pears in Tasmania comes from export sales. Over 70 per cent of Australia's exports of apples come from Tasmania, and only 5 per cent of Australia's apple production is consumed on the Australian fresh fruit market. Because of the shrinking availability of markets, the 'at risk' proportion of apple sales is increasing. The stabilisation scheme has certainly helped the industry, but in the view of the Opposition it. does not go far enough. Last year we moved an amendment to a Bill relating to the fruit industry, and time has shown that our amendment was correct. It was in relation to the 4.4 million bushels eligible for the maximum payment under the stabilisation scheme and which is the second variable in fixing the rate of payout. We said that this figure was not high enough and moved an amendment to the effect that it should be reviewed each year. We will move exactly the same amendment in the Committee stage of this Bill. The Government has now admitted that we were right because it is amending the Bill to increase the amount from 4.4 million to 4.9 million bushels. 
We do not believe that this should be a rigid figure. It should be subject to review each year. The maximum commitment of the Government in the 1971 export year worked out at 47.26c on 7,448,000 bushels. There are 2 variables - the payment of 80c per bushel and the 4.4 million bushels eligible for this payment. If the 'at risk' figure goes up and breaks the ceiling of 4.4 million, of course the payout rate per bushel decreases accordingly. The result of last year was that the maximum contribution worked out at 47.26c per bushel on a total of 7,448,000 bushels. From the returns of exporters it is estimated that the quantity shipped at risk in 1972 will be approximately 5,240,000 bushels, compared with 7,448,000 bushels the previous year. The conclusion can be drawn that the maximum payout will increase to approximately 67c per bushel for this export season, whereas it was 47.26c for the previous export season. The Opposition believes that this upper limit, this second variable, has to be subjected to a review. We cannot see any reason why the Government could not accept the amendment we will move, particularly as we have been proved right. Our amendment simply seeks to write into the legislation that each year this variable be subject to review and varied if necessary. 
I deal next with the canned fruit industry. The Australian canned deciduous fruit pack is mainly made up of peaches, pears and apricots, either straight or mixed. Peaches are the most important canning fruits, and approximately half of the total canned deciduous fruit pack is made up of peaches. The variety principally used is the clingstone, and as we know this variety has a limited appeal to the fresh fruit markets. Canned pears average between 35 per cent and 45 per cent of the total Australian canned deciduous fruit pack. The WBC variety is mainly used for canning. About only 6 per cent of the total Australian deciduous fruit pack is made up of apricots. The tree pull reconstruction programme is designed to apply to all fruit trees, including vines. The definition of fruit tree in the Act includes vines. But the Minister has specifically stated that the $4. 6m for the tree pull scheme is to be allocated to trees bearing fresh and canning apples, pears and peaches. The Opposition is not happy with this tree pull programme. We are not opposing it because if it can do some good to some growers- 
That is right. It will be appreciated by those whom it can help. But we are not happy about many aspects of it. I particularly condemn the Government for not laying down some guidelines as to how this scheme is to operate. The only information we can secure is that it will be operated by the States, but we want to know how it will be operated by the States. What sorts of conditions will be put on the States with respect to applications made to remove trees? We also want to know whether the grower himself is to get the loan in the first instance, which will become a grant after 5 years. Will this money simply go to somebody who has a mortgage or lien on the property, or will it go to a State government or some other body to which the farmer owes money? We do not know this. This is not explained in the second reading speech. It is not explained in the agreement. It is not explained in the Bill. It it very important to have this information because some very disturbing evidence has come to our notice in the last week. My colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  will be dealing at length with some of this evidence. It is quite disturbing. In fact, what some of the authorities are doing amounts almost to blackmail of the farmers. They are imposing certain conditions before acceptance under the scheme is allowed. This defeats the whole purpose of the scheme. 
Why has not the Commonwealth Government laid down guidelines for the operation of the scheme? Is there to be a means test? If so, how is it to operate? ls the scheme to be directed towards farmers who are in such a desperate financial position that they must have money to assist them or is assistance to go only to those farmers who have potentially viable properties? These are important questions. Another factor to be worked out is the effect that the scheme will have on the viability of a fruit farm. An analysis was conducted of properties in the Goulburn Valley in Victoria by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It was found that on an average Goulburn Valley fruit farm of about 65 acres, peaches were grown on 18 acres, pears on 15 acres and apricots on 2 acres. The annual yield of peaches was 5 to 6 tons an acre, pears 8 to 9 tons, and apricots 4 to 5 tons. As to capitalisation, the average land value was about $50,000, plant and equipment being valued at about $20,000, making a total of $70,000 for the average farm. The annual gross income from such a canning fruit farm was estimated then at about $25,000 but it would vary greatly with fruit prices. Costs, including depreciation and owner operator's allowance would be in the vicinity of $23,000 a year. A large proportion of these costs is fixed and must be paid before any income is earned. 
One point has to be watched fairly carefully, not only by the farmers but also by the advisers. If trees are pulled out in a big way, to what degree will the change upset the economic balance of a farm, particularly with respect to the net cash income available to a grower? A farmer must do something with his land from which he is to remove the fruit trees. It is also fairly important to have a look at the effect on the balance as far as land use  is  concerned. One thing always greatly puzzles me. Why cannot we have greater promotion of canned fruits in Australia? Why is it that we consume such a relatively small amount of canned fruits in Australia? Honourable members can have a guess at the annual consumption. I do not know how many are familiar with the figures. The average annual per capita consumption of canned pears in Australia is only 3 lb. It has risen slightly since 10 years ago when it was 2 lb. The annual per capita consumption of peaches is 4 lb. That is rather low in view of the food value and the price of the commodity. 
The annual per capita consumption of pineapples is  2b  lb. I have no figures for fruit salad. The figures for canned pineapple are actually less than those for canned pears or peaches. To my mind the consumption does not seem to amount to very much over 12 months. I do not know how many tins of canned pears, canned pineapple or canned peaches I eat. I have no idea. I most certainly would eat a lot more than 4 lb a year. I wonder how enthusiastic the promotion of this product has been throughout Australia. I should have carried out more research to compare the per capita consumption in Australia with that in overseas countries. This consumption level of canned fruits could be quite common throughout the world. I do not know. It does seem to me to be very low. For that reason I wonder whether a lot more thought could be given to the promotion of canned fruits in Australia. 
I do not like to vote for a Bill which is deliberately aimed at pulling out trees from which people earn an income. It has taken a long time to put those trees there, and a lot of sweat and worry. The husbandry alone associated with those trees has been such that it is a tragedy to see healthy fruit trees on a viable property deliberately destroyed. What is the alternative to this problem if there is a glut year in and year out? The market for these products is shrinking, particularly on the European market following Britain's joining the European Economic Community. What is the alternative? It is quite obvious that unless something is done to stop the progressive reduction of the incomes of producers the trees over an entire fruit farm will deteriorate rather than on only a section. I stress that point because I do not feel at all happy about supporting any measure that is directed towards pulling out good trees. 
I do not know how the Minister will police this scheme. I can see problems in it. For example, I do not know how a farmer can be stopped from replanting if he wants to replant. I know the Act prohibits it. I can understand farmers being stopped from replanting on the same farm, but I do not know how the Act can be policed if the same person is a member of a company or partnership and commences replanting on some other farm which he owns. Honourable members might ask why he would do that. I do not know. There may be reasons why he would want to do it. It is an unknown factor in the entire tree pull scheme. The important point which I wish to make - and I hope the Minister when he replies will tell us more - is how the scheme will operate. This information cannot be obtained from the schedule or the second reading speech. The principles are there in terms of maximum and average amounts of money to be paid, but which farmers will receive these grants and what conditions will be placed upon them? 
I can see legal problems arising in this matter. I refer to a farm which is under a mortgage. In other words somebody else has a lien on that farm. Trees are a fixed asset on the farm. The mortgagors will have some say in whether the trees will be pulled out because they could have loaned the money on the basis of the revenue which would be earned from those trees. That is only common sense. What worries me is just who is to receive the assistance. Is it to go straight to the farmer who will put it in his pocket and feel safe with it there, or will it slip through his hands to somebody else to pay off his debts? The whole objective of this legislation is to reduce the supply of certain fruits on the market. I can see technical and legal problems arising because if a lot of money is owed by the fruit farmers the creditors will do everything possible to get their hands on the money. The Labor Party wants to see the money going straight to the farmer to help him to become more viable. I can see little justice if the money is simply to be passed from the Commonwealth Government to the Victorian Government. The Victorian Government might keep some of the money because the farmers might be in debt to it for water rates, land tax or whatever it might be. This must be straightened out because, as 1 see it, this Bill will be very difficult to police in the sense of making it work properly. 
I am quite certain that all members of the Parliament want to see this legislation work in the best possible way. We do not want to see the farmers being taken down by people to whom they owe money. We want them to receive this money and to achieve the main objective of this legislation which is strategically to remove certain trees under the conditions laid down in the legislation, with the aim of reducing the supply of fruit on the market. I have little doubt that this matter has been discussed at length by the Australian Agricultural Council and its Standing Committee. I hope that serious thought has been given to the promotional aspects of canned fruit in particular in Australia. I repeat that I cannot understand why canned fruit consumption in Australia is so low. I think there is scope for improvement. 
In the Committee stage of the Bill I will move an amendment in regard to the stabilisation scheme. I would like the Minister for Primary Industry to explain to the Parliament how the scheme operates as between the State concerned and the grower and whether the grower will receive the money. In the last 2 years we have had the experience under the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act where a lot of wool growers never saw the money. It was taken up in the payment of debts to the brokers to whom the wool growers owed money. We do not want to see that happen in the fruit industry. We want to see the per acre compensation going to the grower, and the grower putting it in his pocket and keeping it there. We do not want to see it siphoned off by some third person before it gets to the grower. This is not made clear in the Bill. I am worried and so are other members of the Labor Party that this could happen in this scheme. These people have debts. There are mortgages and liens. The 
State governments have particular rights and all of them are getting in for their pound of flesh. As I see it this will defeat the purpose of the Bill. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister and refer to the letter written by him last week to the Premier of Queensland advising him that the Commonwealth had refused to provide funds to the Queensland Government for the urgently required water conservation project in the Eton district. Did the Prime Minister make this decision himself or did the Government make it? Will he make the Commonwealth's evaluation analysis which rejected the scheme available to the Parliament, or alternatively will he make it available to me on a confidential basis so I can study it? 
When this Bill was first introduced the Opposition supported it on the grounds that it believed that it would do something positive for the industry. But the moreI have listened to the various speakers in the debate, and particularly the explanation given by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the more convinced I have become that this is the most half baked piece of legislation in the primary industry field with which I have been associated. The Opposition of the House of Representatives will still support the third reading of the Bill because it believes that the Bill will help some people, although the number will be extremely small. 
I am very disturbed about the answers given by the Minister particularly in relation to the means test. Just what does this means test mean? I was not moved in any way whatsoever by what the Minister calls a severe financial difficulty interpretation'. Some very strong rumours are going around the fruit growing areas. I received a number of telephone calls over the weekend from growers and other people regarding this means test. I believe that the Government has an obligation to inform this Parliament what this administrative interpretation is. We have been told that the figure of $10,000 is one of the criteria under the scheme. But it is completely unfair to the Parliament and to the fruit growing industry for the Government simply to say that the States will administer the programme, because State officials are telling the fruit growers that the stringent conditions applying under the means test have been laid down by the Federal Treasury. I would assume that the Federal Government is the correct body to charge in relation to this matter. But this interpretation of 'severe financial difficulty' has to be explained. If it is not explained then steps will be taken in the Senate to move amendments which in effect will oppose the Bill. It is not good enough to let this open ended reconstruction scheme to remain and simply say that it will be reviewed next February. I can assure the Minister that if there is a change of government it will be reviewed in December, because the present scheme is not good enough. As representatives of the people we are entitled to know the details in relation to this means test. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that he knew what the means test was, but under cross-examination he admitted that he has never seen the details of it. All of us are entitled to have this information. Perhaps there are some privileged people who know the details of the means test, but the correct thing for the Government to do is to table in this Parliament the administrative interpretation of the means test as it applies to this reconstruction scheme. 
Those are the main points that I want to make because really they are the crux of the whole problem. The Labor Party will not accept this open ended proposition whereby apparently the States can add to the criteria already laid down by somebody in the Commonwealth Treasury or the Commonwealth Cabinet whereby there is an air of uncertainty regarding the rights of creditors, the rights of State water authorities, the rights of mortgagees, the rights of other people who happen to be owed money by the farmers and the rights of war service land settlers. There are question marks against all of these matters which have not been clarified either by the Government over the weekend or by the Minister today. These questions have been raised. I can only say that I am completely and utterly unhappy with the situation regarding this means test. In general, I am no better informed now than I was last Thursday. I can only assume that the Government has a lot to hide in relation to this matter. If it did not it would make available to the Parliament and to the industry - in particular, the fruit growers - the exact criteria laid down in relation to this means test. It is no good simply saying in general terms that it applies to the grower who is predominantly a horticulturist and who is in severe financial difficulties. This is not good enough. 
Also I want to know more about this ceiling of 510,000. AH of the uncertainties in relation to this matter have not been clarified. The most constructive message the Minister has given us is that the whole matter will be reviewed in February. It is not good enough that it will be reviewed in February. The Act and its schedules should be changed immediately. If necessarily the criteria under the means test should be altered so that this scheme, when implemented, will give the greatest possible benefit to the people who need it most. This is the most half-baked piece of legislation that I have been associated with since I have been in the Parliament because of its uncertainties and the imponderables associated with it. It is up to the Government to give the industry the answers because, as I see it, the scheme will be completely and utterly ineffective. 
I wish to propose an amendment to clause 3, which reads: 
Section  11 of  the Apple and Pear Stabilization Act  1971  is amended - 
by inserting in sub-section  (2.),  after the word " payment ", the words ", not being  a stabilization payment in respect of fruit picked during the season referred to in the next succeeding sub-section,"; and 
by inserting after that sub-section the following sub-section: - (2a.) The rate of a stabilization payment in respect of fruit picked during the season that commenced on the first day of October, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, shall not exceed an amount per reputed bushel, or part of a reputed bushel, in each container of fruit equal to - 
Eighty cents; or 
a number of cents equal to the product of 80 and 4,900,000 divided by a number equal to the number of reputed bushels of fruit picked during that season that - 
is exported on consignment during that season; and 
is sold after exportation and before the end of that season, whichever is the lesser amount.". 
I move: 
In paragraph (b), after proposed sub-section 2 (a.), add the following sub-section: 2 (b.) The rate of a stabilisation payment provided for in the preceding sub-section, especially the figure of 4,900,000, will be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for that season.' 
I would like to say to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  that his action in applying the gag at the Committee stage of the debate on the States Grants (Fruitgrowing Reconstruction) Bill was uncalled for. The question asked of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was a good question and clarification was needed. The Minister was prepared to answer the question. The arrogance displayed by the honourable member was completely uncalled for. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - That matter is outside the scope of this Bill. 
The Minister indicated that he would answer the question during the debate on this Bill. I have also asked questions relating to the legal problems of people to whom a farmer owes money. I have in mind not only the State authorities but also people who have lent money on mortgages. They may see part of the fixed assets being removed from the properties on which they have lent money. I hope the Minister will answer those questions when the  Deputy Chairman  gives him the appropriate opportunity. When the original legislation was introduced we moved  an  amendment in which we sought that the figure of 4.4 million bushels be subject to review each year on the understanding that fluctuations in production would give rise to different objectives of the stabilisation scheme. As originally framed the scheme provides for a ceiling of 4.4 million bushels to which applies a maximum of 80c a bushel for apples and pears. If that ceiling is pierced the payout figure is proportionately reduced. Because of the problems of growers the Government has provided alleviation amounting to about $400,000 by increasing the ceiling to 4.9 million bushels at the maximum payout figure of 80c. 
The object of the amendment we propose is not to have similar annual amendments but simply to have incorporated in the legislation provision for a review of the ceiling in the light of circumstances. The justification for the amendment proposed by the Opposition when the original measure was introduced has been provided by events. The Government is doing now exactly what the Opposition predicted it would have to do. It is amending the legislation. The figures for last year show that 7,448,000 bushels were shipped at risk. This represented a maximum contribution by the Government of about 47.26c a bushel. The maximum payout of 80c a bushel was reduced proportionately as the quantities shipped exceeded 4.4 million bushels. 
It is estimated that in 1972 the quantity shipped at risk will be about 5,240,000 bushels, or about 300,000 bushels above the ceiling. This will mean that the payout of 80c a bushel will be correspondingly reduced. It is calculated that the payout will be about 67c a bushel as opposed to the maximum of 80c a bushel. Again the Opposition has moved an amendment at the Committee stage. It is believed that the legislation would be improved by the inclusion of a provision for an automatic review, rather than having to wait until something happens and then having an amendment moved in the Parliament, thus involving a long debate at the second reading stage and a detailed debate at the Committee stage. That procedure could be obviated by accepting the amendment we now propose to include a formula for review. 
The object of the Bill is to extend the bounty provisions relating to nitrogen until 31st December 1974, which will keep this legislation in line with the time provisions relating to the bounty on phosphatic fertilisers. The present Act will expire at the end of October 1972. The whole objective of this subsidy legislation was to make provision for a reduction in the price of nitrogenous fertilisers in Australia, particularly in an economy in which costs were excessively increasing. 
The amount of nitrogenous fertilisers which have been used over the last 4 or 5 years has varied around 125,000 to 130,000 tons per annum. The main usage of nitrogenous fertilisers in Australia is in the sugar and fruit irrigated areas and to a lesser degree in some of the wheat-growing areas. They are used also in mixtures in various preparation analyses. The cost of the subsidy is estimated to be around $10m this year - equivalent to 125,000 tons of nitrogen. Another objective of the legislation is to change the basis on which certain imports of nitrogenous fertilisers become eligible for subsidy and at the same time to express the subsidy rate in metric tons as from 1st July 1973. Assuming, of course, that the grower gets the full benefit of the subsidy there can be no argument that the subsidy is positive. It has reduced the price of fertilisers in Australia. Also there are very stringent safeguards for producers in that the price of Australian nitrogenous fertilisers bears a close relationship to the undumped price of nitrogenous fertilisers which can be imported into Australia. I stress the term non-dumped'. 
The actual costs of production in the operation of the subsidy can be policed if necessary, under the provisions within the relative Acts, by the Department of Customs and Excise. There has been a positive reduction in prices, as I have said, in different fertilisers. For example, the nitrogen content in aqua ammonia is approximately 20 per cent and the savings would be about $16 to $17 a ton. Ammonium sulphate contains a little higher N content - about 21 per cent - and the savings are a little higher. If we go up the scale to anhydrous ammonia the nitrogen content is around 80 per cent and the amount of saving to the producer would be in the vicinity of $60 to $70 a ton. 
I am pleased to see also that the Government has retained the right of importers to import into Australia the types of fertilisers that cannot be produced in Australia, fertilisers from which the growers obtain better results than they get from Australian fertilisers. There are several such imported fertilisers. I mention one in particular which is used quite extensively in North Queensland. I refer to an Italian-made fertiliser which has the brand name of Sincat and which is being referred to more and more as Siefa which is being used in Australia as a highly successful planting mixture. The roots of cane are not susceptible to root burn when this fertiliser is used in the same way as they are when the ordinary types of Australian-produced fertiliser with a relatively high N content are used. As we get higher and higher up in the larger rainfall areas in the Ingham, Tully and Innisfail areas of course the N content increases in the imported fertilisers. It is possible in time that Australian companies will produce the same type of fertiliser to the satisfaction of cane growers. It is hard at this stage to ascertain just where the great or significant difference is, but there is no question of the efficiency and popularity of the imported Sincat fertiliser among canegrowers because, as I said before, there is all the evidence that one wants in these areas, particularly in regard to the incidence of root burn in cane. 
The Sincat fertiliser is a mixture of NPK- 8 per cent, 6.9 per cent and 18.3 with sulphur. This analysis, of course, varies as one goes from district to district. It is different in the Burdekin where there is intensive irrigation to the Ingham and Tully area where the percentage of N is much higher. I know that this situation is considered very carefully by the Departments of Primary Industry, Trade and Industry and Customs and Excise. I am very pleased to be able to say with respect to representations that I have made over the years that the Departments have given every consideration to the case of Aus tralian fertilisers versus these very versatile imported fertilisers, particularly where there is clear evidence of the advantages to be gained in terms of productivity by the use of foreign fertiliser and of losses which can occur in certain instances by the use of Australian fertilisers. This is not to say that 1 am holding a brief for imported fertilisers. Far from it. But I believe if Australian firms are unable to produce something which is as good as imported fertilisers, then consideration should be given to allowing the importation of those fertilisers. An analogy can be drawn between Scotch whisky and Austraiian whisky. Some people may say that Australian whisky is better than Scotch. I do not know, but certainly when one looks at the consumption figures in Australia this does not appear to be the case. The same thing may be argued i.i regard to Sincat or Siefa fertilisers and the now consortiumproduced fertilisers with respect to particular planting criteria. But the one thing that is certain is that the growers themselves maintain that the Sincat fertiliser is a superior fertiliser under specific circumstances. 
I am pleased to say that the Departments have agreed that this is the case based on experimental evidence at research stations and also from empirical evidence from the farmers themseles. An analysis of the imported Sincat fertiliser in the Mackay district shows that it has an N content of 8 per cent which is made up of 2 per cent of nitrate as ammonium nitrate, 2 per cent ammonia as ammonium nitrate and 4 per cent ammonium as ammonium phosphate. I am quite certain that the Australian companies are looking closely at this because it has always been the practice to try to produce something as good as, if not better than, the imported products. But the important thing I want to say is that this subsidy is one formula which should be looked at closely by a lot of other industries, particularly secondary industries, in respect of imports. Here the user in Australia is greatly protected from increasing fertiliser costs by the ever present threat of importers being able to import the equivalent fertiliser. Provided it is at an undumped price, the imported fertiliser is eligible to receive the total subsidy. This I believe is as it ought to be, particularly in Australia when we have now an amalgamation of companies in which there is a definite monopoly as regards the production of nitrogen. But the safeguarding clause always is that we have this import provision whereby, if the price gets too high, the importers, producers, farmers or whoever they may be, are able to import the fertiliser to force the Australian companies to bring the price down to world levels, and the subsidy gives a lower price to the producers. There is a limit to how far this process can go. After all, when costs are increasing in Australia there is a case for increasing the subsidy. If we expect fertiliser companies to keep their prices down to the equivalent of the level of undumped import prices the question is whether the full benefit is being passed on to the grower. Without evidence all we can say is that we hope that the Department of Customs and Excise is thoroughly policing company costs to make certain that the price to the producer is the right price. 
I think that the potential of the application of nitrogen to crops and pasture has not been fully explored or the surface of which has only been scratched. We know that there is a tremendous capacity in Australia to manufacture nitrogenous fertilisers. We know also that there is a tremendous potential for the application of nitrogenous fertilisers to crops and pasture particularly in those areas where soil samples have shown a dificiency and particularly where moisture is available. The larger the quantities of moisture are the greater is the potential for nitrogenous application. 
In the cane areas nitrogen is mainly used in the form of sulphate of ammonia, aqua ammonia and other auxiliary analyses. Nitrogen is fundamental to sugar production. Without nitrogen fertiliser the sugar industry would collapse, lt is as blunt as that. It has been shown time and time again that the most important chemical element in the quick growing of cane is nitrogen. Heavy applications of nitrogen have produced some remarkable responses in some of the irrigated areas and the heavy rainfall areas of northern Australia, particularly north Queensland. This does not mean that there is not a need for a balance with respect to phosphate, potassium, sulphur and the trace elements. But the principle ingredient for quick growth over a 12-month period in the top end of north Queensland, or in the 18-month to 2-year period of growing in the more southerly areas, is the use of nitrogenous fertilisers. It is essential to have nitrogen available at reasonable prices. 
I believe that there is great potential foi the application of nitrogen fertilisers to pasture. This is something which in the sub-tropical and tropical areas of Australia should be the subject of accelerated research. Already we know of the results of fertilisers on some of the grasses which are considered to be pests. For example, guinea grass has shown, as a result of the application of nitrogen, remarkable results in terms of dry matter. The application of nitrogen to pangola grass has also shown some remarkable yields in terms of dry matter per acre. 
I have given those examples to show that I believe that this legislation is sound. What I am worried about is that there is no indication in the Bill in regard to the future. I do not think that governments should make a blunt announcement that the subsidy will be continued up to a certain date. I believe that always there ought to be provision to allow the growers and the fertiliser companies to have some thought about the future when the subsidy date expires without having to rely on tn: Parliament suddenly from time to time to introduce amending legislation to increase the period of the subsidy. I think that growers are entitled to know that when the expiry date is reached they can expect a continuation of the subsidy and that they will receive sympathetic consideration from whichever government happens to be in office. It is not only the grower who is concerned; the importer and the producer of fertilisers in Australia are concerned also. The distributors of nitrogenous fertilisers throughout Australia also are vitally concerned to know the future after the expiry date has been reached. 
The Opposition supports the amending legislation. It is pleased to see that the subsidy period is to be extended. It supports this principle, which I believe ought to be looked at very closely as a model when considering other industries. It is a principle which I believe should be thoroughly endorsed even by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  This is an industry in which the costs to the grower are directly correlated to imports of products in question. If the costs to the grower go up, then provision is made for an importer to be able to import at the undumped price and this forces Australian companies to compete with prices equivalent to the import price. It is a principle which has not been followed much by government in Australia but nevertheless it is considered to be a good one provided that the increased manufacturing costs are recognised by the Government and that periodic increases in the subsidy or bounty, whichever it may be, are taken care of if domestic costs get out of hand to the degree that no Australian company could possibly compete with the undumped foreign price. 
I do not have any more thoughts of substance on this matter. I believe that it is a good Bill. But the Government ought to give notice of what it intends to do in the future after the expiry date of the subsidy. It should not be taken for granted that when the Act expires the subsidy will expire. There needs to be some farewarning Those concerned should not have to just take something for granted. 
 I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise why it is ridiculous. 
We of the Opposition have the right to do so. 
If you did your job properly you would be at this table throughout the entire debate and would not be relying on the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  to read a statement prepared by your officers. You should be at the table answering questions that are raised. Your absence is a direct insult to the right honourable member for Fisher  (Sir Charles Aderman)  and a direct insult to members of the Opposition. Your job is to be at this table to answer questions. We intend now to ask you some questions about this subject. You are the responsible Minister but are we to ask you or the Minister for the Navy? 
Very well. One of the problems associated with this Bill relates to the importation of nitrogenous fertilisers which, in the opinion of the Government, on the advice of the Department, cannot be manufactured in Australia to give the same results. This point was brought out by the right honourable member for Fisher, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  other honourable members and myself. 
We are leading up to this. One of the important qualifications is the undumped price. There has to be a relationship of the undumped price on world import parity price with the price of the Australian product or the equivalent product. One of the problems as we see it is this: How does the Government determine the undumped price? Let us take, for example, the imported calcium nitrogenous fertilisers or the ones I referred to earlier as the Sincat fertilisers. How is the un dumped price of those determined? I appreciate that there may be technical problems associated with this matter and the Minister may prefer to give a reasoned answer rather than give one here now. However, as I see it, there are very difficult problems with respect to, for example, urea from Japan. How do you determine the undumped price? The undumped price really is one of the key things in the operation of this Act. 
I raise a second point. It is all right to say that the Department has  8  qualified accountants looking at these kinds of things, but what elements does the Government accept in the cost of producing a particular manufactured product? What elements does it accept in the costing apparatus? As the right honourable member for Fisher mentioned, if the distributors engage in distribution advertising are those costs taken into account in determining the actual price? As the Minister for Customs and Excise knows, the greater the cost of production the less return there is for the grower. What protection does the grower have against inflated costs from the point of view of a manufacturer trying to sell his product? What protection does the grower have against distribution and production costs which rise as a result of the granting of higher wages, for example? Are these things passed on and taken in as a cost of production? Are there examples of the Department actually rejecting the cost formula in determining the final subsidy to be paid? 
All of these factors are important but the  2  questions I want to ask the Minister relate, firstly, to the definition of a dumped price and, secondly, to the actual costing apparatus.  I  think it is fair to ask those questions because they are fundamental to this Bill. The Minister may not accept that we want to ask these questions in the Committee stage but we want to ask them because they are vital. They were asked by honourable members on both sides of the House. We do not want just assurances; we want to know how these items are computed. 
Once again we are debating the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970. When this Bill was last considered the debate was adjourned on the clear assumption that the Commonwealth Government, through its Ministers, would convene meetings with the respective State Ministers, on behalf of their governments, to make a positive decision with respect to the passage of this Bill. At no stage did members of the Opposition believe the intent of the Government in these terms. We believed it was simply only a front to stall matters and to prevent the Parliament taking a positive decision in the House of Representatives. It is fairly clear now that this view, in fact, was correct and that these conferences between the Commonwealth and the States since the last time the Bill was debated had one objective, namely, to sink this legislation once and for all. It was simply a front. The Government has disowned the legislation, lt refuses to see its great national importance and its significance to Australia in its relationships with other countries. 
An absurd situation is developing. Next year one of the most vital conferences - the Law of the Sea Conference - will be held and it seems now that Australia will go to that international conference without being able to speak with one voice on behalf of the Australian nation. We have the absurd situation today of individual States having conflicting claims on many matters, such as the continental shelf, fisheries, the boundaries of inland waters and the status of the Great Barrier Reef and the Gulf of Carpentaria. Recently an agreement was made between the Australian Government and the Indonesian Government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  showed no reluctance to assert Australian sovereignty over Australian waters to reach an agreement on a boundary between Indonesia and Australia. Why is there reluctance now to assert sovereignty over the coastal waters of Australia? 
Statements have been made recently by the Queensland Premier regarding the boundary between Australia and Papua New Guinea. I submit that it has nothing to do with the Queensland Premier. Australia, as a nation, not the Queensland Pre.mier, should be negotiating this boundary. But this is what the States are doing. They believe that they have the right to do this and they go ahead. In recent years some emotional, outlandish statements have been made by State spokesmen. Some of the worst have come from Queensland and have been made by the previous AttorneyGeneral  Dr Delamothe.  It is quite clear that he had no real basic knowledge on the subject. I would say that he had not even read in any depth the Geneva conventions or the real background to the Australian Government's claim to the coastal waters of Australia. 
We have reached an intolerable situation compared with the rest of the world. I would say that we are the only one of over 100 littoral nations which has not once and for all made a decision on this most important matter. We should be able to go to an international conference with one voice on behalf of the Australian nation and the Australian people but this Government will go to the conference next year and allow this intolerable situation to continue. It is a matter of vital importance. The great wealth of the oceans and the complexity of matters associated with the oceans are great international and national problems. 
In the last decade tremendous emphasis has been placed on the resources of the oceans and the development of oil and natural gas exploration rights. From preliminary work we know of the great mineral wealth that lies in the waters, the great potential wealth below the subsoil and also the problems of pollution. All these are national problems. It is no good the Government saying that it will introduce legislation and that the States will introduce mirror legislation. This is completely unsatisfactory. One has only to read what has happened in the last 2 years and relate it to now to see the hypocrisy of the Government on this issue. I find it staggering that members of the Liberal and Country parties who sit opposite can accept the arguments of the Prime Mnister  (Mr McMahon)  who, when this Bill was introduced, was Minister for Foreign Affairs and responsible for the introduction of this legislation. For reasons apparently known only to himself he seems to have changed his mind and wants to sink this legislation. 
I agree with what the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  had to say on the subject.. I think the effect of his words was that this is a matter of great national importance; it should, as much as possible, be above the political arena and this Parliament should take a responsible attitude to a national problem. I quote the remarks of the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  speaking on behalf of the present Prime Minister when this Bill was introduced. He said: 
In these circumstances, the Government feels that, without prejudice to the petroleum agreement and to the action that has been taken in pursuance of it, the constitutional issue should now be decided once and for all, and without delay. 
This was said more than 2 years ago. He  went on to say: 
Until it is so decided the Commonwealth cannot either disclaim responsibility for what is done in off-shore areas or itself take appropriate action. 
This is as correct today as it was more than 2 years ago. These were the spoken views of the present Prime Minister of Australia - the Minister responsible for the introduction of this legislation. These strong words, with which the Opposition and some members of the Government parties agree, were endorsed by all members of the Liberal and Country parties in this chamber at that time. A former AttorneyGeneral, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  a man of learning who is not here today, has not changed his views in any way on the urgency of settling this problem as quickly as practicable. We know what happened with respect to the views expressed by some members of the High Court. In a joint Press statement with the Minister for National Development, the Attorney-General at that time stated. 
We need to know . . . that in entering discussions in the United Nations we are spokesmen for Australia as a whole. This is a national question. . . . 
That statement was made 2 years ago. In fact, it is completely true that when Australia goes to the United Nations conference next year it will speak just as the 
Attorney-General at that time said. Australia's representatives at that conference will be spokesmen for Australia as a whole. They must not be in the intolerable situation existing today in which the States have conflicting views and the Government refuses to assert what we on this side of the House believe - that it has clear title of sovereignty over these waters and over the resources in these waters. In June 1970 in a joint communique the Commonwealth Ministers said: 
The Commonwealth Government is firmly of the view that it is highly desirable in Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position as to the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth and the States in off-shore areas resolved as soon as possible. 
That statement was made in June 1970. What sort of a responsible government makes an important statement like that and yet is not prepared to put its views into effect and is not prepared to give the Parliament any concrete or substantial reasons why it should not do. so? The Minister for National Development and the then Attorney-General also said: 
Once this is resolved the Commonwealth is willing to enter into agreements for the mining of oS-shore minerals other than petroleum and these agreements would be similar to the off-shore petroleum agreements. 
That, of course, is a matter of opinion. Nevertheless, the principle is - there that until this Bill which is of national importance is subjected to some positive decision all off-shore mineral exploration will remain ground to a halt. The question of the border between Australia and New Guinea is one which will cause Australia problems in the future. It is important that Australia makes a decision in relation to this matter. At the present time the border between Papua New Guinea and Australia is in one place .100 miles from the coast of Australia but 200 yards from the coast of Papua New Guinea. This is helping to cause friction between the emerging country of Papua New Guinea and the Commonwealth cc Australia. I believe that it should be a matter between the Commonwealth of Australia, not the. State of Queensland, and Papua New Guinea. No doubt this situation will be the cause of much more trouble unless the Australian Government passes this Bill and asserts its sovereignty over the waters around the Australian coast. There are clear guidelines on which to do this, but I agree with the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  that it is the High Court of Australia which in the end will have to determine this problem. There are clear guidelines to be followed if one has a look at what has happened in the United States of America and in Canada. Although the American States, as we know them, have been given protection by the 2 governments of Canada and the United States, the fact remains that under both of those systems of government the title to the seas around that continent lies within the jurisdiction of the governments of Canada and the United States. This has been decided. 1 think it is most important that we consider the many problems which are emerging and in relation to which the laws are uncertain. The right honourable member for Higgins mentioned a decision which apparently has been taken by a State government to give exclusive fishing rights to a foreign company to operate in Australian waters. If the reported statement is correct, this fishing company can protest under particular conditions against Australian fishermen coming into those waters to fish. This type of agreement, if it is reported correctly, is, I believe, quite foreign to the whole principle of Australian agreements. Australian fishermen have to be given priority. I hope that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and those responsible for our fishing grounds are having a close look at the allegations made last night in the newspaper report. 
Many other things are emerging which one must mention. Pollution is causing great heartburn. Only a few days ago a world conservation authority made the statement that the sugar industry is responsible for the deterioration of the Great Barrier Reef because of the use of fertilisers and insecticides. I think that is a lot of hooey, but who am I to say that? Unless we have Commonwealth research at a high level to determine the significance and the incidence of pollution in the waters around Australia then we will have this type of unsubstantiated statement which causes concern in many parts of Australia. The present laws as they relate to Australian waters - the 3- mile limit, the territorial limit, the fishing rights) - will have to be looked at thoroughly at the United Nations convention next year. 
Many other countries, particularly in Latin America, already have made unilateral decisions regarding changes in the breadth of the territorial sea as it relates to fishing rights in the limits of the outer continental shelf. 
How can the Commonwealth go to this convention and speak with one voice for the whole of Australia when we know that some States are in marked conflict with each other regarding their definitions of the outer limits of the continental shelf, their definitions of what is a man-made island, caves and reefs, and in relation to where the Commonwealth responsibility might start and end. We have this absurd conflict in Australia today between the States, and here we have a Federal Government which is prepared to allow this state of affairs to continue. Although I made it quite clear when I started to speak that I did not think for one minute that the Commonwealh would take any positive role in the interim period, I had hoped that perhaps the Prime Minister and his Ministers would see the great importance of this problem, not only now but in the immediate future. 1 had hoped that the Commonwealth would not go to the next conference on the law of the sea with this great veil of uncertainty hanging over the heads of the spokesmen who are purported to represent Australia. How can they represent Australia? How can they speak with one voice? They cannot. It is no good the Minister for Foreign Affairs getting up in this place and saying that they can, because already we have numbers of examples, particularly in the fishing world, which are complex. We cannot reach a decision. 
While we have this uncertainty in relation to the mythical 3-mile limit and the international sea we know what sort of complex legal arguments would arise if the States or the Commonwealth decided to apply the law. I can remember my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  raising in the Parliament certain queries regarding this issue. One can imagine the situation of a fisherman who throws his line from one side of the 3-mile limit to the other, crossing with it the mythical boundary. Who is then responsible? Is it the Commonwealth or the State concerned? Nobody can answer that question while the present uncertainty is allowed to continue. 
I submit that the House of Representatives must resolve the situation this afternoon. A vote must be taken and I hope that many members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party will come to their senses on this matter and will vote in a positive way. 
The Department of National Development must be regarded as one of the most important Federal departments. It is directly concerned with the land, water, mineral, forest and off-shore resources of this nation and the application of labour, capital and management to those resources. The Department is very concerned with the administration and development of resources in the various States of the Commonwealth. It is concerned internationally with many organisations which deal with the development of Australia's resources. It is also a department which has, indirectly, very important powers through advice to the Government on matters concerning specific exports from this country. On several occasions the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  has taken action with respect to the export policy on and price of basic resources such as iron ore and woodchips. The Department also determines the export policy on materials such as uranium, as it did in the earlier days with iron ore. 
The Department of National Development is very important to the Federation and I believe its various components will become more important in the future. In fact, Australia's growth, prosperity and heritage are tied up with the development of our natural resources. The annual level of national income, the various annual economic growth rates, the annual performance of the balance of payments, the distribution of wealth throughout Australia and the establishment of settlement areas in the great cities, the provincial cities and the country towns are all factors which are directly concerned with the development of Australia's resources. The burning question in recent years of decentralisation will become an important factor in determining policies as they relate to national development. 
There are only 2 deliberate ways in which settlement can be established. The nucleus will have to be built on people or resources. The best example of the development of cities and towns in Australia by the compulsory transfer or settlement of people is Canberra, and to a lesser degree Townsville - toy the transfer of Army personnel. The whole of Australia has developed through its natural resources. The next step was the development of processing works and tertiary industries to support the basic development. In Australia today new towns are developing. There is great activity in this field in my own electorate. New towns like Goonyella, and the new areas of Saraji and Hail Creek involve or will involve the establishment of people with new transport development and new national development. In the field of national development, there are various Commonwealth, State and private organisations working on research and on the evaluation of basic natural resources. Without question, within the Department itself, excellent work is being done by such bodies as the Bureau of Mineral Resources, the division concerned with forestry and, of course, the division concerned with fuel, energy and the like. Practically all major development projects involve State and Commonwealth policies. Although it is the sovereign right of the State to determine the organisation and development of its own resources, nevertheless the Commonwealth, because it is the financing power, because it has control over exports and imports and because it has particular and specific powers in relation to taxation fields, is of vital importance to the States when it comes to organised development. 
But there are major problems in developing resources in Australia and I believe that this is one of the main reasons why we have seen such accelerated development of Australian resources by foreign companies. First of all, the States just do not have sufficient funds for large scale development of land, power, water resources, transport etc. The States also do not have adequate staffs to be able to evaluate and measure the feasibility of large projects and to make judgments whether or not they should plough money into them. Also, it seems that many projects in Australia are influenced by qualitative means. This is one of my great arguments and it is something to which I have certainly taken exception ever since I have been in this Parliament, namely, that feasibility studies are influenced in the departmental sense by political pressures. 
By that, I do not mean that politics come into it in any way in making decisions, but certainly the political climate at a point of time often influences the speed at which decisions are taken by depart ments in the field of national development, particularly when they have to consider projects from the point of view of interdepartmental committees. I could give many examples of the frustrations that I experienced with the operations of interdepartmental committees before I entered Parliament. Often it does not matter how technically sound a project is; if the climate is not right for development it is often difficult to obtain a decision, even from an interdepartmental committee. 
One has only to look at the great number of decisions taken in the 1960-61 period, when the Menzies Government was desperately looking for developmental projects. The projects went through the interdepartmental committees very quickly as compared with the snails pace at which they went through the committees about 4 or 5 years after that date. Often this is influenced by the political climate at the time. There is no disguising the fact that the major policy making departments, particularly the Prime Minister's Department and the Department of the Treasury, are conscious of Government policy in these fields of accelerated development. It has always been my opinion - and I have always agreed with the recommendations of the Vernon Committee - that the function of an interdepartmental committee should be completely divorced from any political arena. It should present the facts and the truth, and nothing but the facts and the truth, as quickly as possible to the Ministers and to the Cabinet and not delay simply because, say, the permanent heads of relevant departments believe that the political climate is just not right to present a report at that point of time. 
Members will recall that one of the major recommendations of the Vernon Committee's report to overcome many of these problems was to establish what is called a special projects commission which would be clothed with powers to investigate proposals for major development projects in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the reason for the extraordinary delay in announcing a negative or affirmative decision on the Eton water conservation project which is regarded as a relatively simple project for evaluation analysis. 
On 23rd June 1970, almost 2i years ago, 3 elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council -  Mr Kilgariff, Mr Fisher  and  Mr Greatorex  - came to Canberra on the instructions of the Northern Territory Legislative Council to put forward to the Commonwealth Government certain grievances of the Northern Territory people. I think that everything that the Government has offered today as indicated by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  was, in fact, included in their representations to the Government in 1970. It has taken over 2 years for the Government to act. There are a lot of glaring omissions from this statement in respect of matters which the Legislative Council asked the Government to consider. It would seem from an examination of the Minister's statement that items of non-controversial substance, items which will not influence very much this Parliament or its representations, have been included in the statement but items which have a direct bearing on this Parliament have been deliberately omitted. 
Let me deal with several of them. One of the charges levelled by the people of the Northern Territory against this Government concerns its refusal to treat the people in the Northern Territory as equal citizens or as first-class citizens. There is not one mention in this statement of giving to the people in the Northern Territory a voice in the Senate. Why should not they have a voice in the Senate? They are Australians. They live in a remote area of Australia and they are fully entitled to have a representative or representatives in the Senate of this Parliament. Not one mention has the Minister made to say whether the Government considered this and turned it down, whether it is considering it or whether it may consider it at some later stage. There is a Bill before the Parliament on this very matter and on which again the Government is conveniently stalling. 
The second point I make with respect to representation for the people in the Northern Territory is that they should be entitled to vote on matters concerning the Commonwealth Constitution. Again there is  a  deliberate omission from this statement by the Minister. Why should not the people in the Northern Territory have the right to vote in a referendum concerning the Commonwealth Constitution? Why should the Commonwealth Government continue to allow the people in the Northern Territory to be regarded as second-class citizens? They are just as good as those citizens who live in any other part of Australia. Again there is no reference in the statement as to whether this matter is being considered. But of course we know the reason for this omission. We know that if there is another representative for the Northern Territory he or she will be a Labor representative. That has already been determined. If there are 2 representatives one will be a Labor representative and in all possibility if there were a Senate election there would be a Labor representative in the Senate. 
A glaring omission from this statement is mention of the very power - the substance - of the Northern Territory. I refer to land and minerals. This has been deliberately omitted from this statement. I agree with the Government in respect of Aborigines. I believe this is a national responsibility and can best be handled from a Commonwealth viewpoint. I believe that the Australian Government should have as much power as is possible to make laws regarding the Aborigines of Australia. But it is quite a different matter when you are dealing with the resources of an area such as land, water and minerals. Why is it that the Government allows, for example, the Legislative Council to have power over the acquisition of urban land and its administration but refuses to allow the Council to have power over Crown land held in a very large way by foreign owners? Why does the Government refuse to give administrative responsibility for that land to the Northern Territory Legislative Council? Why is it that mining has been singled out and is kept away from the Legislative Council? 
It is all right to argue that these are the resources with which the nation is concerned. Of course it is concerned with them just as it is concerned with all of Australia. But I submit that the Government should put forward a timetable. I said quite recently in this Parliament that there should be a timetable in regard to all the resources of the Northern Territory. The Government has declared itself categorically in respect of Aborigines but why has it not declared itself with respect to minerals and land? Does it mean that the Commonwealth considers that it should always have control over our basic resources which are of course very valuable as we have seen in recent years in view of the activities of foreign investors? I submit on behalf of the Opposition that there is an urgent need to introduce a step by step timetable, not only in regard to the functions which I call the crumbs', such as Prison Administration, sewerage operations and the various statutory authorities, but also in respect of the real substance of the Northern Territory which is minerals and land. They are the things for which we need to have a timetable. 
Another point I should like to make deals with the role of the Administrator. Under the terms which the Minister announced to the House today the Administrator of (he Northern Territory will have something like the powers of a governor. He will give assent to legislation passed by the Legislative Council. This means, I assume, that the Governor-General will have no power of veto over any of the functions which are now exclusively those of the Legislative Council. What I am concerned about is whether the Administrator will at all times abide by the decisions of the Legislative Council. Will he of necessity give assent to legislation or will he have the right to refer some decisions to Canberra? If he does have that right it will defeat the whole purpose- 
In other words, every decision which the Legislative Council makes will automatically receive assent from the Administrator? 
That is how it should be. One may then question the need to have the Administrator. I have some views on this. I think that while we have Commonwealth responsibility in an area there is a need for a Commonwealth representative to be in that area and at a level equivalent to that of administrator - I do not want to call him a governor. But one questions the necessity of having to go through all this red tape with the Administrator being required to give assent to legislation when in fact it is automatically given and he can do nothing but give it. But I question this from a legal point of view because I understand that a governor can refuse to give assent. If the Administrator is given the power to refuse assent this has to be looked at carefully. But the Minister has assured me that the Administrator is forced, as it were, to give assent to every piece of legislation that goes through the Legislative Council. I question this. Nevertheless the Minister has told us the position. 
The Labor Party's policy with respect to the Northern Territory has been made clear by myself several times. We have given an undertaking that a Labor government will introduce a definite timetable laid down within reason for a progressive march towards self-government. It will be a step by step timetable. It will have to be in that form because of the financial restrictions. On the other hand, the Northern Territory is in a much better position in regard to achieving self-government than were some of the States of Australia when they were about to achieve it. After all, there is Commonwealth financial legislation to assist new States such as the Northern Territory. We accept the fact that selfgovernment will take time but we do not accept that it will take another 23 years - the period for which this Government has been in power - before a timetable can be laid down with a view to achieving the objective which I believe all Australians would want. 
Another point which is missing from the Minister's statement, as I see it, is a clear statement regarding the functions of the Northern Territory Public Service. I am not sure whether the Minister means that there will be an accelerated transfer or change with emphasis now on the Northern Territory Public Service or not. But it is clear that there will need to be emphasis given to this matter because after all the Commonwealth is now to give more and more functions to the Northern Territory Legislative Council. As a result there will have to be an increase in the size of the Northern Territory Public Service. This was one of the objectives of the 3-man delegation that came down to Canberra in 1970. The delegation made a clear submission to the Government in regard to progressively increasing the Northern Territory Public Service. I can only assume that the Minister implicitly means that this will happen and that there will be less emphasis on the operation of the Commonwealth Public Service in the Northern Territory and greater emphasis on the operation, recruitment and development of the Northern Territory public service to keep it in step with the State-like functions that are now being handed over to the Northern Territory. 
I have no argument against what the Government has set out in its paper. I commend the Government for it. But I do not waste any time in criticising the Government for the time that it has taken to bring about these changes. I believe that the Government should have gone much further. There are many aspects of Crown lands and mineral fields which the Legislative Council could have taken over. I believe that the Council would do a very good job in these areas. But it seems that the Government wants to bang on to the land - principally cattle land and mining land - at all costs and not let it pass into the administrative responsibility of the people of the Northern Territory. Although the fire brigade, the prisons, the police force and sewerage are all important the real economic resources of substance are land, mineral and water, of which land and minerals are the most important. These are the areas about which there is controversy. The Government says that these resources are of vital concern to the nation. Of course they are. We have seen at Gove, for example, what can be done and what is being done with our resources. But surely where expenditure is involved in housing, roads and so on the Northern Territory people and the Legislative Council have the same right to go to the Com monwealth Government for assistance under section 96 of the Constitution as has any other State which seeks special assistance in these fields. 
I hope that the nest statement that the Minister makes to the Parliament - he will not be able to present it before the election - will put forward a plan which will involve minerals and land because I can see no reason why some major aspects of Crown land and minerals cannot be handed over to the Northern Territory Legislative Council for administration. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
But I am making a persona) explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
I endorse the remarks of the Minister for 
Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  concerning the work of the Public Works Committee. I intend to speak briefly to the project relating to the development of the Royal Australian Air Force base at Townsville in Queensland. By resolution of 17th August 1972 the Senate referred to the Public Works Committee for investigation this project at Townsville. It is now only October and when one considers the tremendous amount of work facing members of the Public Works Committee as members of that Committee, quite apart from the work involved in looking after their own electorates, it is somewhat amazing that they have been able to achieve the results they have achieved. It is, of course, necessary that they do their work as members of that Committee otherwise they will be criticised in the Parliament not only by members of the Opposition but also by Government supporters for not getting on with the job of investigating urgent projects. It is clear to everybody that this is one of if not the hardest working committees of the Parliament. 
The proposal for development of the RAAF base at Townsville involves the construction of new buildings and services and extensions to a number of existing facilities. The work will provide for the permanent location at this base of a RAAF utility helicopter squadron, the replacement of unsatisfactory technical and base support facilities and for expansion generally. The work is necessary. It provides for an extension of an armed forces base and facilities at Townsville in that part of Australia which is vital to our defence. I am pleased that the helicopter squadron is being moved to Townsville where it should have been located years ago. 
The Air Force base is not a modern base in terms of time or of standards. The Army first became involved in it about 35 years ago when the Citizens Air Force was concerned with the promotion of aircraft activities. During the war, from 1940 onwards, when the Commonwealth became closely associated with Townsville, that centre was one of the most active areas in Australia in terms of attack and defence. It had one of Australia's biggest Air Force bases and it had the biggest concentration of American and allied soldiers and of small ships operating from that area. For this reason, of course, the Japanese attempted to bomb Townsville. 
The establishment of the helicopter squadron in Townsville will be not only a great asset to the Army and its work but also of advantage to the people who live in northern Queensland because a significant part of its work is in connection with emergencies which occur in civilian life from time to time. Speaking from personal experience I express my gratitude on behalf of the people whom I represent in northern Queensland for the work that the helicopter squadron did during  2  recent cyclones in northern Queensland - the cyclone that bashed and belted the islands off the coast of Proserpine, Bowen and Mackay and wrecked parts of Proserpine, and the cyclone that devastated areas of Townsville. During these disasters the helicopter service performed magnificently. Recently a little girl, who resided within a mile of where I live outside of Mackay, disappeared. She still has not been found. One of the most intensive searches ever undertaken took place. Thousands of people tried to locate this little girl and in the forefront of the search was an Army helicopter piloted by Lieutenant Peter Simpson who must have worked 20 hours a day flying his helicopter and servicing it. The people of the area owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to this man, who, at all times, did exactly what the police and the residents asked him to do. He never flinched. This is the type of dedication that one respects greatly in members of the armed Services. 
One must levy criticism at the Government for not doing something earlier about the state of the buildings at the base. Many of these buildings were constructed prior to and during the war. In many cases nothing has been done to them since, except for a few minor repairs. They are the old type of Army building. In fact, the area had been permitted to stagnate to the stage when it was becoming a disgrace and a blot. The effect of the proposed work will be to upgrade not only the base but also the whole general area of the Townsville airport. I think that in time this airport will be utilised as an international airport. Certainly north Queensland needs one, and Townsville is without doubt one of the areas that could support an inter national airport because of its facilities and its location with respect to the needs of the north and with respect to the air routes from Europe, the United States of America and associated areas. 
However, I believe that the Commonwealth must give consideration, in development programmes such as this and when transferring people from one area to another, to the indirect and direct effects on services in the area to which the squadron - in this case - is transferred. There is already a very grave shortage of housing in the Townsville area. Rents and the price of land are at record levels. Not enough thought is given in the planning to the effects of transferring a lar-e body of men into an area. It is not jus! a question of Army or Air Force facilities; it is a question also of the effects which those additional families will have on the city or town. I ask the Government in this case to give special consideration to the people of Townsville who have been adversely affected in one way or another when looking for houses and flats, because of the programme of development. 1 completely endorse the development. I completely endorse the establishment of the Army and Air Force base in Townsville. 1 believe that is where it ought to be. But, on the other hand, more consideration must be given to the effects that the introduction of thousands of extra men in the Army and Air Force will have on the ordinary civilian services of the area, lt is also having some effect on telephone installations. All of these things are ancillary to the problem. I am pleased to see that the Public Works Committee supports the plans for upgrading the Air Force base. This can only do good. In fact it will lead to bigger and better things for (he Air Force in Townsviile and 1 am certain that, with the helicopter base being transferred there, the whole of north Queensland will benefit. The tragedy of the matter is that it was not done years ago. 

The motion before the House concerns the statement made by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  on Australia's natural resources - minerals, forests, water and energy. This is one of the most comprehensive statements that has been made in this Parliament on this subject for a long time. It is a valuable statement which supplies much valuable information of a technical and administrative nature and in respect of marketing which will be of interest not only to the Parliament but to people throughout Australia who are concerned with the development of natural resources. In many respects the statement reveals some of the shortcomings and some of the future policies of the Government in respect of the development of natural resources. 
I take the opportunity of paying a tribute to the Minister for National Development. As is well known, rarely do I pay tribute to any member of the Government side. I do not know whether the Minister will go down in history as a great Minister - only time will tell - but he is a man who is held in respect by members of all parties.  His  door has always been open to me and I am quite certain to other members of the Opposition. Although the Opposition does not agree with many of the Government's policies on resources development nevertheless I believe the Parliament will be much poorer when the Minister retires at the end of the year.It is only 7 or 8 years ago that the Australian Government was considering policy steps to rectify serious defficiencies in our balance of payment position. In 1965 and 1966 many documents - from Treasury and elsewhere - where in the possession of the Government. These documents warned of problems with our balance of payments position. On the horizon, however, there was the known possibility of a great expansion in our mineral exports. One needs only examine figures for the last 10 years to see what has happened. In 1951 mining exports were valued at $83m whereas in 1971-72 they were almost$1, 300m, so there has been a dramatic change in the direction of our exports. In 1951, 92 per cent of our total exports were of rural origin and 4 per cent of mining origin. In 1971-72 rural exports represented 50 per cent and mining exports 31 per cent. A dramatic change in direction is evident in these 2 great industries. Unfortunately this dramatic increase in mineral development has been achieved at the expense of ownership and control of a great proportion of Australia. For quite a number of reasons including State and Commonwealth policies, there has been what one might call a mad race to develop many of our mineral fields. One can understand why the States want development at all costs. The States are not too concerned about foreign ownership because if the State can persuade someone to develop a mineral field the quicker it is developed the more revenue the State earns in royalties, in rail freights and indirectly, in land tax and other forms of taxation. A State is not particularly concerned with the export price of a commodity, but this is an important matter. 
I am pleased to see that in his statement the Minister for National Development several times sounded the warning that in future the Government will not accept the formula of costs of production plus profits as being the equivalent of the export price. It must be a price closely associated with the world parity price. This is what it should be and should have been for the last decade. The Commonwealth, of course, is concerned with export incomes and with capital inflow to develop works. It is concerned also with resultant income tax and revenues arising from the development of natural resources. However, without question there has been a lack of planning in many of the fields of resources development. I do not suggest that the Labor Party is opposed to foreign investment - far from it. I know of the benefit to north Queensland of the development at Mount Isa not only to the town of Mount Isa but also to Townsville, but I can quote many examples of foreign exploitation of Australian resources over the years. The exploitation of land in the Northern Territory is almost a scandal. Such exploitation resulted in erosion problems and the virtual raping of native pastures. Problems occurred in catchment areas and on river frontages. We hope this is all in the past and that the Government has at last awakened to environmental problems and the problems of development. There must be rational development. 
The Labor Party is aware of the fact that development means decentralisation. In north Queensland, new towns have been developed at Moranbah, Blackwater, Moura and now Dysart. The same situation applies in Western Australia and in the Northern Territory. This is decentralisation based on the development of natural resources but we should remember that minerals are an exhaustible asset. Once a mineral is taken from the ground and exported it is gone for ever, unlike water and land. It should be our policy to gain as much control as possible of our mineral resources. There is no question that the Labor Party will take a much harder line with foreign companies than has been the case with the Government. It is well known that the Japanese have a mighty and increasing grip on Australia's economy because of our dependence on Japan for export outlets. However, one consolation in this problem is this: I firmly believe that Japan needs Australia's raw materials more than Australia needs Japan. We have diversified outlets for our exports, if necessary. Japan needs raw materials and has to buy from us. 
There are 5 basic principles which I believe should be followed as regards the development of resources by foreign companies. I call them common sense principles. The first principle is that first priority should be given to bona fide Australian companies and Australians in the development of all our resources. However, we know that a great risk is involved in the exploration and development of natural resources, particularly minerals, fuel and energy. In the event of foreign companies wishing to develop a lease on which they have found oil, natural gas or minerals, and in the event of their owning and controlling this lease, they should offer to bona fide Australian institutions, companies and people a share in the partnership, either through the share market or through direct participation. That is the second principle. 
The third principle is that in the event ot the Australian people, institutions or companies not having sufficient capital to develop that resource in partnership with the foreign company, the Australian Government should consider entering into partnership with that foreign company in the development of that resource. The fourth principle is that if the Australian Government believes that the risk is too great and it is not prepared to risk Australian money, the green light should be given to that foreign company to go ahead and develop that resource at its risk. But that should be done only after those other principles have been applied. The fifth principle is that in no circumstances should a government - and no Labor government would - allow the development of a basic natural Australian resource if it meant that this would not be in the best interests of Australia. I refer to such things as the development of many of our beach sand areas where erosion is rife, and the development of the marginal areas of our pastoral lands. These could cause problems. 
I note the Minister's declaration regarding the price of exports. This must bear a closer relationship to the world parity price. We should abandon this outmoded, uneconomic and wrong formula of cost of production plus profit. As Australian assets are involved we expect the Commonwealth Government to obtain for Australia the best possible price on world markets. I believe that in the future we will see a greater role played in the Australian economy by our northern resources. Eighty per cent of Australia's bauxite and 60 per cent of its alumina are produced in the north. Already the huge deposits of black coal in north Queensland are responsible for 47 per cent of total production in Australia. Seventytwo per cent of Australia's production of concentrated copper and 93 per cent of refined copper comes from the northern parts. The vast deposits of iron ore in the northern part of Western Australia are responsible for 70 per cent of Australia's total production. Almost all of Australia's bullion lead, salt and manganese are produced in the north. In addition, as will be stated later by other speakers, a great proportion of the vast deposits of natural gas that we have in Australia is located in the northern half of Australia. 
While southern Australia is quickly running out of water, in the north we have tremendous reserves of surface and underground water. A great proportion of our water, minerals and energy is in northern Australia. I believe in the future we will see a much greater contribution to the economy being made by northern resources than we have seen in the past. It is to be hoped that the Government of the day will give recognition to the resources of the north and not pay lip service to them, as has often been the case up to the present time. Despite the tremendous contribution which the resources of northern Australia are making to the economy of Australia, too frequently the great profits from these resources are milked away into southern areas or to overseas countries. 
I believe it should be mandatory that a proportion of the profits, or a proportion of the value of production taken out of the area once and for all - the exhaustible assets - should stay in the area for basic development. Let me give one example. At Weipa is one of the world's richest deposits of bauxite. Yet Cape York Peninsula is one of the poorest areas in Australia in terms of basic development in roads, ports, power and so on. I believe that a proportion of the value of products removed should stay in the area to help the local authorities, just as a proportion should remain in other areas fortunate enough to have very valuable resources in their own backyards. Unfortunately, what is happening today is that most of the profits are going out of the area into other parts of Australia and, m many cases, to other parts of the world. 
In conclusion let me say this: I firmly believe that a body along the lines of the Vernon Committee should bc formed in Australia as a special projects committee to analyse progressively various alternatives for the development of natural resources - land, water, minerals, energy, forests, fisheries or whatever they might be - and to report consistently and factually to the ministry of the day, free of politics and free of inerdepartmental committees. It should be able to put forward the facts as they appear to a completely independent committee on the development of natural resources in Australia. In this way we will achieve planning and an orderly development of natural resources. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many telephone applications are outstanding, within the provisions of the Government's 15- mile telephone policy, in each of the rural electoral divisions in Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
On what date did the Premier of Queensland submit a request to the Commonwealth for financial assistance for the construction of a water conservation project in the Eton district to minimise the losses caused by drought to sugar production. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth's evaluation of the Eton water conservation project was completed 7 months ago; if so, will he make this evaluation available to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What amount of Commonwealth moneys has been made available to each State and the Northern Territory to assist in the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis in each of the last 5 financial years. 
asked  the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What amount of Commonwealth and Stale moneys has been expended by each State and the Northern Territory in the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis in each of the last 5 financial years. 
The honourable member will be aware of the provisions of the Sugar Agreement Act, which Act in fact determines the price of refined sugar in Australia for domestic use. Two basic grades are 1A and IXD, for which the price is a little over $200 per ton. Other grades of sugar are related to these grades. The sugar used by breweries usually is regarded as liquid brown. It is of a somewhat lower quality than the sugar used in soft drinks or, indeed, in canned fruits. For this reason, the sugar is made available at a lower price. The honourable member will also be aware that the sugar industry is extremely awake to the problem of substitutes and in recent years there has been a concentration on certain sugar substitutes - starches as well as the cyclamatic acids - particularly for industrial use. That is another reason why the sugar is supplied at a lower price. The honourable member will also recall that, under the legislation, the base price system fixes the price at the Brisbane price plus freight. That is another reason for the price differential. I can well understand the honourable member's interest in this problem because people in north Queensland have certainly established a remarkable capacity for the consumption of beer, soft drinks and, in fact, even water. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory can rest assured that the Government is well aware of the problems of people living in northern Australia arising from freight rates and the paucity of shipping. The policies of the Government of which he was a member before it fell are making it most difficult to carry out proper reviews of this matter, but he can be assured that this Government is looking at it actively, and it is our intention to take positive steps to assist in alleviating the problems caused by the very high incidence of freight rates in certain areas of northern Australia. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Chicken Meat Research Act 1969, I present the third annual report of the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924-1972, I present the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. A preliminary report of the Board was presented to the House on 19th September  1972. 
 I rise briefly to comment on a few points made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  regarding meat inspection services. I could not help but listen with amazement to the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  who criticised the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and attempted to blame this Government for some, of the problems in the meat inspection service. Since 1958 when the United States entered the Australian beef market we have seen no end of chaos in meat inspection services in Australia. Let it be remembered that the honourable member for Paterson was a supporter of a Government which reigned here for 23 years and which has been primarily responsible for the chaos in our meat inspection services. So do not try and blame the new Government which has been in office for just over 100 days for the chaos which the honourable member's Government has left us and which we have inherited. 
The first point I want to make is this: There are always some periodic problems in Australian export meatworks and those which supply the domestic market due to a number of factors which one would expect. Problems arise with transfers between meatworks and between regions which are caused by periodic flushes in seasonal conditions and periodic droughts. There are also problems with respect to transfers of meat inspectors, as well as holidays, service leave and so on. All of these factors cause problems. Basically the Department of Primary Industry adheres to 2 priorities in the allocation of meat inspectors. The first priority is in respect of routine postmortem examinations. This allows livestock to be slaughtered and inspected. The second priority applies where additional processes are asked for by overseas countries. This could involve practically all matters affecting the export of mutton whether it be in carcass form or boneless form. Most countries which import Australian mutton demand certain processes which have to be followed if we are to sell the mutton. To the best of my knowledge I have not had and I cannot find any serious complaints or breakdowns in respect of the first priority which concerns post-mortem examinations, except for the periodic ones which I mentioned which result from transfers, service leave and so on. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro mentioned the extra processes involving, for example, cutting the glands of sheep carcasses. There have been breakdowns and this matter is now being thoroughly investigated by this Government which has issued instructions to the Public Service Board and to the Department of Primary Industry to get in and solve these problems. The abattoir staff themselves, in consultation with some overseas countries, have put forward a request that the staff carry out this additional process but this request has been rejected by the various organisations and abattoirs concerned. 
The main point I want to make is this: In post-mortem examinations every carcass has to be examined. This is something unique in meat inspection services. There cannot be random sampling. Every piece of meat must be examined under the Australian international codes of hygiene. Where a post-mortem inspection is carried out. which is the first priority, there is no telling the delays that might occur with respect to meat inspection. But with respect to the additional processes relating to all the different standards demanded by international markets in relation to mutton in carcass form or boneless form, there have been periodic breakdowns in the works concerned. This is exercising the mind of the Government through the Public Service Board and the Department of Primary Industry to secure, if necessary, more meat inspectors and to train them in these specialist fields so that we can overcome the problems which occur. I will arrange for the Department of Primary Industry to study the remarks made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and to supply him with a detailed answer to the various questions that he asked tonight. 
As the honourable member will know, the Australian Agricultural Council considered the question of wheat deliveries for the forthcoming season in relation to domestic and world markets. On the best advice available internationally and domestically, there is a world shortage of particular types of wheat. Because of the relatively high prices of competing grains in Australia it was recognised that there may be problems in Australia of securing even the aggregate that the Agricultural Council and the industry would like to achieve. This is in relation to the 514 million bushels which, as honourable members know, is a considerable increase over the previous quota. For that reason the Government considered that the Agricultural Council's request was a sound one, and agreed to it. The Government also recognised that, as an additional incentive to growing more wheat because of the competitive position of other grains, it would be sound to increase the first advance from Si. 10 to Si. 20. 
As honourable members will appreciate, last year the acreage was about 18.5 million and there will have to be a massive increase in that figure even to secure anything like the 514 million bushels. However, it was recognised that growers would rally and try to achieve this figure in all States. There was the possibility of additions to the 14 million bushels although this is in some doubt. As a consequence, the Minister for Primary Industry recommended and the Government accepted this contingency of 20 million bushels agreed to at the additional 10c a bushel first advance. This will be allocated on the best advice from the States and the Minister himself if any State or States achieve more than their particular quota. I will draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the question and get a detailed answer for the honourable member with respect to the allocation of the additional 20 million bushels if in fact that is achieved. 
As the honourable member for Farrer well knows, the contractual arrangements between the coal companies operating in the Bowen basin and in the areas of Moura and Kianga have been negotiated with overseas interests outside of any export controls, lt is the decision of the Government to obtain more information and details relating to those contracts. This decision was taken for a number of reasons. As the honourable member knows, there has been considerable criticism of the Government by mining companies in relation to the recent currency alignment decision. However, the Government was under some difficulty in trying to obtain from the companies or from anyone else the details of these contracts. One of the basic reasons for the Government's decision is to obtain more information about the prices received, particularly in relation to the exports of minerals such as coal, which the honourable member mentioned. One of the major objectives is to obtain more information statistically. At this time the information is still being assembled. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Honey Industry Act 1962-1972, I present the ninth annual report of the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30th 
June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. The interim report of the Board was presented to the House on 31st August 1972. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Pig Industry Research Act 1971, I present the first annual report of the Australian Pig Industry Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
I am well aware of the problems of the Bundaberg-Bingera-Gin Gin area in respect of the production of cane sugar. Phase 1 of the present construction program will cost approximately $20m, of which the Commonwealth has contributed $ 12.8m. The Commonwealth's contribution consists of the construction of the Monduran Dam, a major dam on the Kolan River, the main pumping station and the main Gin Gin channel. With the remaining $8m the State is constructing tidal weirs on the Kolan and the Burnett River systems. The Premier of Queensland has written to the Prime Minister asking for financial assistance for phase 2 of the project. The total cost of this work will be $30m and the Premier has asked for $1 8m in the form of financial assistance. Phase 2 will involve continuation of the project, construction of important weirs on the Kolan and Burnett Rivers and the linking of the main Gin Gin channel with the area of Bingera and then taking the water further towards the Isis area. The overall effect will be to make the very important sugar growing area of the Bundaberg district drought proof in most respects. 
It is only a few weeks since the Premier wrote to the Prime Minister. He also asked for financial assistance for 8 other water conservation projects. I am afraid that it will take some time for the evaluation machinery to swing into action to enable priorities to be established with respect to water conservation projects not only in the north but also in the south. I can assure the honourable member that the project to which he has referred is being treated very seriously because the Government is aware of the substantial losses that have occurred in this area over the years. It knows also that the city of Bundaberg and surrounding towns depend greatly on the stability and security of the sugar industry. 
One of the first things that the new Government found out when it came into office was the very serious financial problems which existed in some sectors of primary industry as a result of ridiculous policies of the Australian Country Party in refusing to recognise that in some of the dairy areas including the electorate which the honourable member represents there was a need for reconstruction and rehabilitation. For example, the lactation period in some of the dairying areas which the honourable member represents had been quoted by technical people to be as low as 4 months and 5 months. What is needed is a boost in progressive reconstruction to overcome the problems which I am sure the honourable member will recognise. He may rest assured that this Government is awake to these problems and is making an active study of reconstruction in order to assist the dairy farmers to overcome problems which the party he represents repeatedly refused to recognise over a long period when it was the Government. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Tobacco Industry Act 1955-1965, I present the Seventeenth Annual Report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
The overall question of monetary policy as it affects rural reconstruction, the development of resources, revenue earning assets such as housing or the supply of facilities for fuel and so on, is under active consideration by the Government as are specific interest rates. The objective of the Australian Government is to provide the best possible deal for the Australian people, irrespective of whether these people live in the city or the country. We do not subscribe to policies which favour selected people or selected groups of people. In regard to this particular objective, it is also the policy of the Australian Government to expand the activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank, particularly in the fields of lending to rural producers, and in encouraging small secondary industries and assisting those engaged in progressive reconstruction not only in the pursuit of traditional rural activities but also with respect to forestry and fishing which had been grossly neglected by the outgoing Government. These things cannot happen overnight and this incoming Government has been left with a legacy of monetary chaos. As the Prime Minister has indicated, and as the Government has indicated, we have been left with a legacy of uncontrolled prices. 
Trade in potatoes between New Zealand and Australia is a matter for the Minister for Overseas Trade. I would imagine that on his recent visit to New Zealand the Minister for Overseas Trade took into account some of the matters that were mentioned by the honourable member. I will refer the honourable member's question to the Minister for Overseas Trade so that he can receive a detailed answer. 
'Pursuant to section 18 of the Wheat Research Act 1957, I present the fourteenth annual report on activities under the Act for the year ended 31st December 1971. 
It is a fact that informal talks are taking place in London between the Ministers of the British Government and Ministers of the Commonwealth developing countries concerned with the export of sugar. 
If the shadow Minister for Primary Industry knew something about sugar, I would tell him. He ought to know that, under Protocol 22 of the Treaty of Accession, Australia is not classified as a developing country; it is a developed country. The informal meeting which is taking place is between the British Government and the governments of the Commonwealth developing countries under Protocol 22 of the Treaty of Accession. The British Government is expected to confirm assurances that secure and continuing markets for sugar will be available to the Commonwealth developing countries in the European Economic Community. It is a fact that Australia is not taking part in this conference because it is not a developing country under the provisions of Protocol 22. We will be conducting separate negotiations with the British Government through the auspices of the Commission of the European Economic Community in London and in Brussels. 
As honourable members know, the British Government has given a firm assurance that Australia's exports of sugar will be safeguarded after 1974 to the degree that phasing out conditions will apply The conference relating to Australian sugar will take place separately. So the crux of the answer is that the confer ence referred to by the honourable member is concerned with developing countries. The Australian Government is well aware of it. We will be conducting our conference at a different time also to make certain of the conditions relating to the phasing out of Australian sugar after 1974 and certainly to safeguard Australia's interests. 
One of the great paradoxes in the development of the resources of northern. Australia is the serious shortage of water which occurs periodically in provincial cities and towns and in rural areas in close proximity to millions of acre feet of water which annually flow wastefully to the sea. This happens in the honourable member's own electorate as in other parts of Australia, including northern Queensland. Regarding the development of the Pilbara, I assume that the honourable member is speaking about the proposed Pilbara complex, lt is certainly true that the two most important variables associated with the successful development of this area will be the supply of cheap power, in the form of gas, and also the supply of water. I have seen dam sites in the area. Engineers tell me they would be capable of harnessing the waters of the Fortescue River which would supply large quantities of water for the industrial complex. The same principles apply to the waters of the Gascoyne and Murchison rivers, linking up with a possible water pipeline to Perth. 
In the northern areas of Queensland a similar principle applies. It is absurd that a major city like Townsville should be short of water year in and year out when beside it is one of the greatest rivers in Australia - the Burdekin - which annually discharges millions of acre feet of water wastefully to the sea. The Australian Government has always believed that the harnessing of water for soundly based schemes is a great national asset. 
In conjunction with the States, because after all the initiative must come from them, the Government is determined to harness water resources for soundly based schemes to supply water not only to towns and cities but also for the progressive development of Australia's natural resources. The initiative must come from the Western Australian Government with respect to the particular pipeline mentioned. As far as I am aware there have been no studies to date to link the northern and southern areas but I shall certainly bring this matter to the attention of the State authorities. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1966 I present the forty-fourth annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
1 have been misrepresented. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  accused the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  of using what one would assume to be bad language about me in the Cabinet room - language which could no&lt; be repeated here. Despite the fact that the Leader of the Opposition has withdrawn his remark, he obviously believes it to be true. I can assure him that it is not true in any sense. This type of scurrilous word slinging should be exposed. I challenge the Leader of the Opposition to state the words which he believes to have been used and also to name the person - this is very important - who told him of their alleged use. If he does not do this the House can judge for itself the veracity of the Leader of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr  Snedden's) be agreed to. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has furnished the following reply: 
The questions asked by the honourable member require detailed information which is not readily available. When the data is collated an answer will be provided. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Commonwealth has no jurisdiction in relation to the allocation of wheat quotas to growers, firms or other interests in any of the States. This is a matter which comes within the Constitutional, legal and administrative prerogative of the States. 
I am informed that the instrumentalities set up under the legislation of the various States to administer the quota arrangements have listed, in the normal course, the names, addresses and entitlements of quota holders within their respective States, but that the records do not indicate the kind of information which the honourable member has sought. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has furnished the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
At my direction, senior officers of the Department of Primary Industry recently had discussions of a purely preliminary and informal nature with representatives of the wheat industry on the subject of the wheat industry stabilisation. 
and (3) I am informed that the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation at its Annual Conference early next month will be formulating proposals for a new stabilisation scheme to commence with the 1973-74 crop which, as has been the case with all previous wheat stabilisation arrangements dating back to 1948, will involve consideration by not only the Commonwealth but also all State Governments. 
I have made arrangements for a special meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council on 18th May, at which I will be discussing the industry proposals with the State Ministers of Agriculture. In the light of the outcome of those discussions, the Commonwealth Government will then consider its position in the matter. 
Not to my knowledge. 
See answers to (2) and (3). 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have had frequent consultations with industry leaders in the whole range of rural industry. 
No. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As I have had no queries from any sector of the farming community on the outcome of the Australian Agricultural Council meeting, I can only assume that statements issued by me following the Council meeting were sufficiently explanatory. 
If the honourable member requires further information on any particular topic, I would be happy to provide it for him. As the honourable member knows, proceedings at Agricultural Council meetings are confidential. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
All assistance to both primary and secondary industry will be looked at objectively in the general interests of the Australian community. Machinery is being established in the protection commission to examine support arrangements. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In January I invited State Ministers for Agriculture to give me their views on the contribution which the Commonwealth financed extension services program has made to efficiency and progress in rural industry. The program is, of course, also under continuous review by my Department. 
The honourable member will be aware that the Commonwealth gave an undertaking for funds of up to $37m to be made available for agricultural extension services over the 5 year period 1971-72 to 1975-76. I recently informed State Ministers of the funds available within this program during the next triennium. The continuation of the program beyond 1975-76 will be determined at the appropriate time. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Government is not bound to the policies of the previous Government for assistance to rural industries. Existing Commonwealth and industry sponsored programs of research for rural industries are being reviewed and decisions will be made in the light of the present circumstances in each industry. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Arrangements for the construction of the Roll of persons eligible to vote at the referendum are proceeding. The information on which the Roll will be based is being obtained from some 230 wool houses which handle shorn wool on behalf of growers, and from the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has obtained views on the referendum from the Australian Agricultural Council, the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation. 
Differences exist in the views amongst woolgrowers on the question of the prohibition of exports of merino rams. These views are reflected in the attitudes of woolgrower organisations, and the Australian Wool Industry Conference proposed that the taking of a poll on the question should be deferred. 
The Government's decision to hold the referendum is in accord with its policy of affording woolgrowers the opportunity to decide the issue for themselves. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the folowing answer to the honourable member's question: 
No date has been set for the presentation by the Australian Wool Corporation of its report on the study of wool marketing on which the Corporation is presently engaged. It is not expected to be available for some months yet. 
The report and any recommendations made by the Corporation will be published and will be dealt with promptly by the Government. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Argentina, Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Iceland, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Panama, South Africa, United Kingdom, U.S.A. and U.S.S.R. 
25-29 June 1973. 
No. The Government supports the International Whaling Commission's total prohibition on the taking  of  white, gray, blue and humpback whales and the imposition of catch quotas for other species to provide a maximum sustainable yield. 
See the answer to (3) above. 
The Government will continue to support the Whaling Commission's whale conservation program and provide an officer to participate in the International Observer Scheme to ensure that other countries adhere to these programs. 
It is true that there have been adverse seasonal conditions in the grape growing areas of South Australia, Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales, but by far the greatest amount of damage has been done in the Sunraysia area. The figures given by the honourable member are fairly accurate. The best estimates seem to suggest that sultana grapes production will be down by something like SO per cent and the estimated production is around 40,000 tons as against 90,000 tons the previous year. The problem has been caused by unseasonal rains and thunderstorms in these areas. The correct approach would be from the industry to the State Government. If the State Government is unable to finance carry-on loans or special grants to individual producers or to the industry in general and if it thinks this finance is necessary, it could approach the Federal Government. In this case the correct approach would be from the Premier to the Prime Minister. Preliminary discussions and inquiries were made last week and I have been assured that the Minister for Primary Industry will give sympathetic consideration to an approach from the fruit growing areas with respect to this damage. 
I am not aware of the statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry. However, I do know that one of the reasons for the wheat shortage in Australia was the attitude of the previous Government towards small national quotas and towards the first advance payments in relation to those quotas. The Australian Government has demonstrated its faith in the wheat industry by giving its blessing to the biggest national quota since quotas were introduced and also by increasing the first advance payment. The Leader of the Country Party asked a question relevant to wheat stabilisation. I would remind him that the wheat stabilisation scheme in fact was introduced by a Labor government, not a Country Party government. The Labor Government stands firmly behind stability and security of primary industries that are sound - and the wheat industry is a sound primary industry. We also have made it clear over the years that we support the principle of stability in prices on the home market in line with reasonable costs of production. We also believe that there is a need to expand the wheat industry in line with world trade and demand. I can assure the Leader of the Country Party that the policies of the Australian Government will be designed to increase wheat production in Australia, if the world market demands that situation. 
I can give an assurance to the honourable member for the Northern Territory that this matter is under consideration by the Department of the Northern Territory, the Department of Northern Development and the Department of Transport. I cannot make any firm statement about the timing of the program. I simply say only that this matter is under investigation. 
This is a question which has been exercising the minds of many people in Australia who are aware, of course, of the dramatic increase in cattle prices throughout 
Australia, and particularly in the export producing areas in northern Australia. This position has been caused primarily by a world shortage of beef, as is instanced by the increasing demand for beef by the United States, Canada, Japan and the member countries of the European Economic Community. It is not an easy problem to solve in the short term because, unlike cash crops, it takes 3 to 4 years to increase beef production substantially. It takes 9 months to breed a calf and then there is the ensuing time it takes to turn it off. 
I am aware of the threatened action by some sectors of the Australian community with respect to a possible boycott of butcher shops and also of the statements that there should be a compulsory ban on the export of beef. Let us have a look at these proposals. Firstly, with respect to a boycott, it is my considered opinion, from my knowledge of the industry gained over a fairly long period of years, that this action would not achieve anything significant. What it would do would be to cause unemployment in butcher shops and in local abattoirs. It would mean simply that more cattle would be diverted to the export market in which there is an increasing demand. It would not reduce significantly, if at all, the price of beef in Australia. If there were a compulsory ban on the export of beef through industrial action, this could cause problems in Australia because the cattle producers would hold on to their cattle until they were heavier and older. In the long term, of course, it would cause a reduction in price. The initiative, I believe, has to come from the State governments and the industry itself. The Federal Government has power under the export control provisions to place quantitative restrictions on the export of beef if it thinks such action is necessary in order to reduce the price. This action could cause resentment overseas because it has been shown that, when a country that produces a surplus of food deliberately restricts the export of food to countries which need it, retaliatory action can be taken. 
Let me put the record straight. I have had discussions with some leaders of the cattle industry and I have warned them that they had better give some very serious thought to stabilising beef prices in Australia. I know that this is a problem. But the initiative will have to come from the industry, and I believe it will. I know that the Australian Meat Board and the industry are thinking seriously about this problem. It has a significant effect on the consumer price index, which in turn will have an effect on wages. All these factors are leading to inflationary forces in Australia. There is a need for the cattle industry and the State governments to look at this problem seriously and to work out some voluntary restraint, perhaps by introducing a 2-price system based on more stabilised beef prices in Australia and the industry reaping the benefits of the export market. The overall surplus could go into a revolving fund as is done in some other export industries which have stable domestic prices. One thing is certain. If beef prices continue to rise there will be greater and growing resentment among housewives in Australia, and once we start tangling with housewives we politicians had better look out. 
I should like to be associated with previous honourable members who have spoken about the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden.  Sir Arthur  Fadden and his family spent a very large proportion of their early days in the electorate of Dawson, particularly in the town and district of Walkerston - commonly known in that area as 'Scrubby'. It is only a few miles from where I live today. Several people have asked me, during the last few days, to express their sympathy at the passing away of this great man. When one reads the history of the Australian sugar industry in general and particularly the development of the Mackay and Pioneer Valley  areas  of north Queensland, one finds that the name of the Fadden family is written throughout that development. It was only last year that his brother, Charlie Fadden, retired as manager of the Racecourse Mill. As has been said before, irrespective of whether a man  was  a cane cutter, a local councillor, a top administrator or whatever else he might have been Artie Fadden was a friend to all. 
In recent years he had a great love for calling into Mackay and spending a day or two there to walk down the main street or some of the other streets and meet some of his old friends. I can remember on one occasion meeting him in the street. Of course, he would always invite you to the nearest local, and there you stayed for some time. The famous words 'Have you heard this one?' seemed to echo from all over the precincts of that establishment. It did not matter who raised  an  issue,  Sir Arthur  always seemed to be able to add one somewhat better.  His  memory will always be there with the people in that area, an area which he served so well. 

 Mr ERIC ROBINSON (McPherson)I would like to join others in offering condolences on the death of  Sir Arthur  Fadden. He, of course, held the seat of McPherson for a lengthy period, and although the ties are lessened after IS years, there  is a  very real sense of loss in the electorate. Other people have spoken of his great role as  a  parliamentarian. Although I knew him 20 years ago, it was only in the last 10 years, in his retirement period, that I got to know him well, and there would be many thousands of Australians, particularly Queenslanders, who got to know him particularly well during that period. Whether it was along the street or at a special function or in an airport lounge I had many informal conversations with him. Although I never sought his advice, during those discussions he made plenty of observations which substantially influenced me. My best memory of him was at a Liberal Party Christmas function in Brisbane a few years ago. We always asked  Sir Arthur  Fadden to the Liberal functions in Brisbane because we had a tremendous regard for him. He arrived a little late. We pressed him to stay on when the appointed hour had arrived for the function to end, and he and I drifted into a corner together and for half an hour had a conversation which one could only regard as unguarded. For me the experience was unforgettable. I believe that many people, many Australians, would have had similar experiences. 
He had a wonderful personality. It made an enormous impact. It was not so much that he was a former Treasurer, a former Country Party leader or even indeed a Prime Minister - distinction and great honour these positions hold - but rather the qualities of innate friendliness and a capacity for fair mindedness, simple qualities that each and every one of us admired. It was not a question of liking  Sir Arthur  Fadden. If you knew him well he engendered within you a feeling of real affection. Although death has claimed him, he will live on in the hearts and minds of many people for a very long period. I share the sense of loss. On behalf of the electorate of McPherson and indeed, if I may, on behalf of the entire membership of the Liberal Party organisation in Queensland, I pay a tribute, to a big man - big in the mould of Queensland, big in the mould of Australia. 
I have not been advised of the exact qualifications of all members of the proposed delegation, but I certainly agree with the honourable member for EdenMonaro that at least one member of that delegation should be fully conversant with the substance and the findings of the objective measurement report which thoroughly investigated this proposition and its application in Australia and overseas, particularly in relation to the sale of Australian wool and the consequences on the manufacturing side. I also agree with the honourable member that it would be sound practice for a government representative to accompany that delegation. I will take up the matter with the Minister for Primary Industry and ask him to act on the honourable member's suggestion. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has decided and announced the measures for financing wool research and promotion during 1973-74. It also has accepted the need to examine a continuing program of wool research and promotion beyond 1973-74. 
The previous Government had agreed with tha Australian Wool Industry Conference on overall budgets for wool research and promotion for a 3 year period commencing in July next, and on methods for financing these activities. The terms of this agreement were to be implemented if the previous Government was re-elected to office. The Minister has had discussions with the Managing Director of the International Wool Secretariat, and the Government's decision has been announced ahead of the May meeting of the Board of the International Wool Secretariat. The Board then will finalise its budget and the program for the following year. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A public statement was made on this subject on 16th March 1973. 
See (1) above. 
No. 
No, because the Government has not decided on this commitment. 
I made no such statement. I am unaware of the statement referred to. 
Under the Standing Orders, I believe, any honourable member who asks a question has to make certain that any statement contained in the question is authentic. I am not aware of the statement to which the honourable member referred. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Australian Meat Board to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  on the stabilisation of meat prices. Copies will be made available to honourable members as soon as possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill is designed to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972 to incorporate the arrangements to apply in 1973-74 for the financing of wool research and promotion and to meet the costs of administering the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. The Government has reviewed the proposals on this matter endorsed by the Australian Wool Industry Conference for the triennium 1973-74 to 1975-76, and decided that the only course it could justify in the current circumstances was to adopt measures to apply only for 1973-74. The Government however is proceeding with an examination of measures appropriate for continuing longer term programs. 
Wool prices have improved markedly during the current season and this significant change in the wool market has highlighted the impact which unpredictable and uncertain variations in the proceeds from the wool tax can have on budgetary programs. Experience in both the current and past trienniums demonstrate also the difficulties arising from inescapable increases in salaries and other costs which become more uncertain the further ahead programs are planned. Because of these factors, the financial commitment over a triennium tends to be inflated to ensure that adequate resources are available when various adverse effects coincide and markedly influence the budget. It was felt that the measures proposed earlier and endorsed by the Australian Wool Industry Conference would have imposed on the Government much of the burden arising from the unpredictable adverse variations in the different segments of the budget. 
The proposals endorsed by the Australian Wool Industry Conference were considered by the Government also in the context of the general principle that measures to assist industries should ensure that the benefits are received by those producers in most need of help. It is appreciated that the present prices are providing welcome relief for woolgrowers who have experienced depressed incomes and a heavy debt burden in recent years. Nevertheless, prices have recovered to relatively high levels and the value of wool production has risen to an estimated $l,329m in 1972-73 from $664m in the previous year. Thus values compare favourably with prices realised in the years when the industry alone financed expenditure on wool promotion. For these reasons the Government considers that in 1973-74, woolgrowers should finance a greater share of the expenditure on research and promotion and that its decision to provide $22m for this purpose and for the cost of administering the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation represents a reasonable balance in the circumstances. 
The decision to provide measures for one year only should not be interpreted as any weakening of the Government's resolve to develop an arrangement incorporating all the advantages of forward planning and continuing longer term programming, and overcoming many of the difficulties involved in this procedure. The Government is examining ways and means of developing both the research and promotion programs on a continuing longer term basis and account will be taken of views the Australian Wool Corporation and the industry organisations may have on this matter. An overall expenditure of $43. 8m is planned for 1973-74 to cover the costs of the approved programs for research and promotion and to meet the administrative marketing costs of the Australian Wool Corporation. This expenditure is to be financed by the Government contribution and by the proceeds of the wool tax. To provide the amount of revenue required from the wool tax, its operative rate is being increased to 2.4 per cent of the gross value of all wool shorn and sold whether at auction or otherwise, effective from 1st July 1973. Currently, a tax of 1 per cent is imposed on all shorn wool sold and a levy of 0.4 per cent is collected on all wool sold by auction. Of the total revenue derived from the tax in 1973-74, a minimum of $20m is to be used to finance expenditure on wool research and promotion. 
The overall expenditure provides for a research program of $12.6m which will enable the quantum of activity to be maintained at its present level in the fields of production, textile and economic research provided inescapable rises in costs do not exceed the average for the current 3-year period. In addition, a sum of $29.4m is being allocated for wool promotion through the Australian Wool Corporation and the International Wool Secretariat. Provision of $1.8m is made also to meet the costs of administering the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation imposed under the Wool Industry Act 1972. The 1973-74 Budget does not involve any drain on the income and reserves of either the Wool Research Trust Fund or the Australian Wool Corporation as has occurred in recent years. However, these reserves would be available to meet any deficit which might arise if the inescapable increases in the costs of the programs prove to be greater than anticipated or the revenue from the wool tax is less than expected. Conversely, should a surplus become available from the proceeds of the wool tax, this is to be allocated to the Wool Research Trust Fund and carried forward to help finance expenditure in future years. 
No change is being made in the present responsibilities for administering the wool research programs specified in the Wool Industry Act 1972. However, the Government considers that every opportunity should be used to strengthen and develop the coordination of research activities undertaken by the various organisations receiving support from wool funds. It welcomes the attention given to this matter by the Australian Wool Board during the present triennium and account will be taken of these views in examining arrangements which might be developed for operat ing longer term and continuing programs in research and promotion. The provision of $29.4m in 1973-74 for wool promotion in Australia and overseas will enable the Australian Wool Corporation to meet Australia's share of the International Wool Secretariat's budget, after taking account of savings flowing from the revaluation of the Austraiian dollar in December last. The Australian contribution to the IWS compares with current estimates of SI, 329m and $1,5 13m for the value of Australia's woo! production and exports respectively in 1972-73. 
The. allocation for promotion however must be balanced against the dimensions of the task being undertaken by the IWS in encouraging the use of wool in an international textile market which is so large in comparison with the volume of wool products sold. During a recent visit overseas the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  had an opportunity to review with .the  Chairman  and the Managing Director of the IWS the activities of this organisation, in particular, the Minister . considered how the functions of the IWS are integrated in servicing the woo] textile industry in a fashion similar to that used by manufacturers of man-made fibres to help the users of their products. In this manner, the development of new products and the imparting of new properties to wool products are directed specifically towards retail requirements and- consumer demand. Technical advice is constantly provided in various countries on mill re-organisation and modernisation and the specialised treatments and processes such as for permanent creasing, shrink proofing and machine washability of wool products, are being extended under trade mark and licence control, by the IWS, in the various countries where it operates. These activities of IWS are concentrated on the 4 main end uses of wool - carpets, women's outerwear, men's outerwear and knitted outerwear (excluding children's wear). No change is being made in the. responsibility of the Australian Wool Corporation, under the Wool Industry Act, for funds spent on promotion both in Australia and overseas. However, the activities of the IWS have been under intensive review during the current triennium and' the Government is examining the results of that review to ensure that every effort is made to further improve the performance and effectiveness of wool promotional activities in the future. 
I now turn to the amendments to the Wool Industry Act 1972 required in terms of the Government's decision. The Bill provides for amendments to Part 1 of the principal Act which are of a machinery nature. Part II of the principal Act is amended to delete the existing provision whereby the Corporation determines and collects from brokers the amounts which they deduct from the proceeds of wool sold at auction to enable the Corporation to meet the costs of administering its marketing functions. The need to delete this provision arises because the levy deducted by the brokers is being consolidated with the previous wool tax imposed on all shorn wool sold at auction or otherwise to provide funds for wool research and promotion. Part III of the principal Act is amended to authorise payments to the Corporation of funds for promotion and marketing administrative purposes, and to the Wool Research Trust Fund for wool research. Any income received during the year in addition to amounts required for the approved programs of expenditure will be paid into the Fund to help as necessary to finance future programs. Provision is also made for the payment of $22m as the Commonwealth contribution in 1973-74. I commend the Bill in the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These 5 Bills are designed to amend the Wool Tax Acts (Nos 1 to 5) 1964 in terms of the new arrangements made by  the  Government for the collection of a consolidated wool levy to finance wool research, promotion and the administration of the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. These arrangements are dealt with in the second reading speech on the Wool Industry Bill. This levy will incorporate the charge imposed on wool sold by auction, previously collected by the Australian Wool Corporation through wool brokers, to finance the Corporation's administrative marketing costs. All 5 Wool Tax Bills are similar in their provisions and increase from 2 per cent to 3 per cent the rate of wool tax payable where a lower rate has not been prescribed by regulation. The operative rate of the consolidated levy is being prescribed by regulation at 2.4 per cent as from 1st July 1973. 
The Wool Tax Act (No. 1) imposes a tax on shorn wool produced in Australia and sold by a wool broker. The other Wool Tax Acts ensure that where wool is not sold by a broker, it is subject to tax at some other point. The need for 5 separate Acts arises from a constitutional requirement that laws imposing taxes shall deal with one subject of taxation only. I commend these Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
It is a fact that the present situation with respect to wheat stocks is quite unsatisfactory and perhaps it could be termed critical. Prior to the commencement of the harvest just concluded the amount of wheat for carryover was approximately 50 million bushels. As a result of the last harvest, which was not a good one, the deliveries amounted to approximately 200 million bushels which allows only 250 million bushels to be disposed of for the full 12 months. The first priority must be given to Australia's own requirements for human consumption and stock feed, which will be about 80 million bushels. This means that we have only 170 million bushels to supply the very large export markets that we know are available. Obviously, we cannot do it. We will have the lowest exports for over a decade. Just recently the lowest deliveries for over a decade took place. The cold facts are that we will not have any wheat at the end of the year if we fulfil the orders that are available. 
It would be prudent for the Australian Wheat Board to hold on to some stocks of wheat, and it would be a matter for the Board's judgment to provide a minimum carryover of, say, 10 million bushels. Honourable members will understand that if we had another bad harvest at the end of this year the position would be very critical. It is most unsatisfactory. The whole matter of national aggregates and State quotas are being looked at thoroughly by the Government because a new wheat stabilisation scheme is to be brought forward this year. We have storage capacity for 700 million bushels. I believe that the Government must offer some encouragement or at least some incentive to growers who are prepared to grow above quota wheat at their own risk. It is obvious that, in view of the deficiencies in the meat market today, we should give serious thought to the growing of a lot more wheat for stock feed also. 
The New Zealand Government has been very concerned about the dramatic increase in meat prices in New Zealand in recent months, just as the Australian Government is concerned with a similar position in Australia. The New Zealand Government has taken action to stabilise certain meat prices in New Zealand. These measures have been concerned principally with sheep meats. In recent weeks the price of sheep meats, because of the Japanese demand, has doubled and it has been necessary to take some action. The New Zealand Government has put a blanket freeze over all wholesale and retail sheep meat prices throughout New Zealand. At present it is finalising a schedule of sheep meat prices which will operate and will in fact have the effect of reducing the prices of sheep meats in that country. This might involve a subsidy. 
In regard to beef, a similar position applies as in Australia. It is considered to be impracticable to fix or freeze the prices of beef throughout New Zealand. The New Zealand 
Government is looking at this question at present. There is a deficit in pork production in New Zealand in terms of demand, and pork is actually being imported. I would say also that New Zealand has a major advantage over Australia in that it has a unicameral system of government. 
And a unitary system. New Zealand is able to take action quickly to stabilise prices without the hindrance, as often occurs in Australia, caused by some States. I shall have pleasure in referring this matter to my distinguished colleague the honourable member for Adelaide,  Mr Hurford,  for his committee to look at the situation and to study what has happened in New Zealand to see whether some positive similar action can be taken in Australia. 
It is the objective of the Australian Government to increase trade between Australia and China, both ways. Last year Australia's exports to China totalled about $37m and imports about $41m. This does not include the large contract of wheat which will be shown in this year's trading figures. It is true that there are representatives of textile industries and other major industries in this delegation who will be going to China to explore the possibilities of trade between that country and Australia. The Australian Government is fully conscious of the repercussions which large amounts of imported textiles could have on employment in Australia. This matter is under active consideration by the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Government. I can assure the honourable member that the matter will continue to be kept under active consideration and that any major contracts or major trading arrangements between China and Australia involving textiles or for that matter any product which will endanger employment of the work force in general in Australia or have an effect on our trade will be kept under close scrutiny and policy action will be taken accordingly. 
The honourable member will be well aware that the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General and other Ministers over the years have taken extensive action in an endeavour to minimise and to stop French nuclear tests in the South Pacific. The Australian Government will support any legal action which will prevent these tests being carried out in the South Pacific. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The examination of the effects of revaluation on exporting industries has been on the basis of assistance necessary to ease the process of adjustment to new conditions, and the establishment of criteria and procedures for such assistance. On 6th February 1973 I made a statement setting out the results of the Government's consideration of rural exporting industries and on 10th April 1973 the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry outlined the conditions under which the Government would provide financial assistance to exporters of manufactured goods. The Government will be considering requests from exporting industries in the light of the criteria which have been determined. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has furnished the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Representations have been addressed to myself and the Department on a range of egg industry matters, principally its financial position in the early months of this year, and the application of the hen levy in non-Board areas. These have been examined on receipt and, at my direction, an examination of the hen levy issue is proceeding. 
Returns to producers in the egg industry have shown  a  substantial improvement in the last  2  months. If the honourable member wishes to indicate interest in  a  specific matter I shall be glad to see what information can be made available to him. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has furnished the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have taken the question to relate to the proposals for production controls which have been discussed within the industry and by the Australian Agricultural Council over an extended period. 
I have arranged for the honourable member to be supplied with the papers prepared by the Australian Dairy Industry Council and the press statements issued by the Australian Agricultural Council on the outcome of its considerations. Departmental consideration of the industry proposals has been made in the context of the Commonwealth's membership of the Australian Agricultural Council. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
The policy of the Australian Wool Corporation is: 
to allocate the testing of wool owned by the Wool Corporation to the Australian Wool Testing Authority provided: 
the Authority's charges and services are competitive with those of other testing enterprises; 
a competitive enterprise structure is maintained in wool testing, should a substantial proportion of the Australian wool clip come within the Corporation's control. 
that its staff should, where possible, discreetly influence the testing of wool towards the Australian Wool Testing Authority as the implementation of objective measurement in the marketing of wool proceeds. 
Between 1st June 1972 and 31st March 1973, testing by the Wool Commission and the Wool Corporation has been allocated to: 
Australian Wool Testing Authority- 28,500 bales Wool Testing Services- 2,500 bales Auscore - Nil 
See (1) above. 
I am aware that last year permits were granted to producers to lease wheat growing properties and to grow wheat for intensive meat production. The substance of the honourable member's question puzzles me because it would seem that there is a definite inconsistency in the attitude of the Australian Wheat Board last year and its attitude at the present time. I am not aware of which person or organisation has given the instruction not to allow permits this year. If, as the honourable member said, it is the Wheat Board, I can only assume that the Wheat Board considers that there may be or there is an infringement of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act or an infringement of the provisions relating to State or national quotas. With respect to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act, it could be argued that there could be an infringement regarding the delivery quotas or the first advance payment. But I fail to see how, in fact, the first advance payment could come into the situation under present conditions. I also fail to see how, at a time of great scarcity, there should be any restriction to supplying more wheat for intensified stock feed. As regards animal husbandry, we know that this is one of the best methods of increasing meat production provided that the grain-meat ratio is sound. Certainly this year it is. In relation to live weight gains per animal, by forced feeding or grain feeding, this is certainly one of the most important and quickest methods of increasing meat production. I have said many times inside and outside the House that investment in meat, beef particularly, is one of the best possible avenues for anybody in rural industry. 
Frankly, I consider that any policy which restricts at this time of scarcity the production of wheat and meat is not a good policy. If the substance of the honourable member's question is correct I shall take it up immediately with the Minister for Primary Industry to see whether this inflexible attitude can be corrected in order to allow increased wheat for specialised meat production on wheat properties. We will have a look at the Wheat Stabilisation Act to see whether it is necessary to amend it, always remembering that at a time of surplus - such as a bumper season next year - permits could, of course, be not granted in the circumstances. 
Pursuant to section  18 of the Dried Fruits Research Act 1971, I present the first annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1972. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Fishing Industry Act 1956, I present the sixteenth annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30 June 1972. 
Pursuant to section  19 of the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969, I present the third annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30 June 1972. 
I am aware of the serious injustices of the existing provisions of the War Service Land Settlement Agreements Act. The Parliament also is aware of the many speeches made by the honourable member for Braddon exposing these injustices. Members on the Government side, including the honourable member for Braddon, have repeatedly moved and supported amendments in this House for a select committee inquiry into the various aspects of the determination of rentals, valuations and the option price of properties. In every case such an inquiry was refused by the previous Government. A select committee of the Tasmanian Legislative Council inquired fully into this matter. Its recommendations were firm that in Tasmania soldier settlement valuations should be related to State valuations. This was accepted by the Tasmanian Labor Government. It has been accepted also by the Labor Party in this House, as was shown by our various amendments over the years. I can understand the honourable member's concern in this matter because he, above anybody here, has made the greatest number ofpleas to do something positive. I can understand him also being very edgy now as to what the new Government will do because as he would know, I suppose - he is quite right in his implied criticism - up to the present time we have not done anything. I would suggest that as the Minister for Primary Industry is a Tasmanian the honourable member might give him a bit of a nudge, and 1 in my capacity will put his case again to the Minister for urgent action. 
PACIFIC BASIN ECONOMIC COUNCIL: VISIT BY  Mr K.  T. LI 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie will be more than well aware of the policy of the Australian Labor Party with respect to wool acquisition. That policy was announced by the Prime Minister in his policy speech. It was repeated many times whilst we were in Opposition. Our policy is to establish a statutory marketing authority to acquire and/or market the Australian woo] clip. 
What was that? 
The people have judged how bad you are. The position is that whilst the Australian Wool Commission Bill was being debated in this Parliament last year 1 moved an amendment which provided that the Australian Wool Corporation report to this Parliament, through the Minister, within  3  months on a comprehensive wool acquisition scheme. 
I am interested in that interjection because the honourable member for Wimmera and other honourable members opposite opposed that proposition. As was pointed out last year, in the Australian Wool Commission Bill there is no mandatory instruction to the Australian Wool Corporation to bring any wool acquisition plan before the Minister or before the Parliament. The Australian Labor Party moved the amendment that within 3 months a plan be made available for examination because the growers and most sectors of the wool industry wanted to see a plan. We still do not have it. I think all honourable members will agree that the most advantageous time to introduce stabilisation schemes is when wool prices are sound and certainly when they are high. It is obvious that the only time the Australian Country Party wants to introduce a stabilisation scheme is when wool prices or commodity prices are at bedrock. It is important that we do get a proposal from the Corporation. On behalf of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie I will bring this matter to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to see whether we can accelerate the objectives of the Australian Wool Corporation with respect to this proposal, if it is to present a proposal. If it is not to do so the Government will have seriously to consider amending the legislation to require the Corporation to present a report on acquisition to the House within a certain time. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No, t understand that normal supplies of bran and pollard are available in the two important stockfeed manufacturing States of New South Wales and Victoria. However, the demand for bran and pollard for stock feed purposes has increased as a result of adverse seasonal conditions. Exports of bran and pollard from New South Wales and Victoria have been negligible.  1  am advised that adequate supplies of meat meals are available and exports are being closely controlled. 
, (3),  (4),(5)  The Comonwealth has no Constitutional, legislative  or  administrative authority with respect to the pricing of flour and mill offals for domestic usage. The determination of the price of these products is  a  matter for  the  commercial enterprises concerned. The price charged to users  of  mill offals in various areas is not known to my Department nor has  the  Department any knowledge of the element of cost  in  stock foods prepared by flour millers which  is  attributable to the bran and pollard content. 
In  the wheat  crop year ending  30  November  1972  four  flour mills ceased  operations. For  the  five years  ending 30  November  1972,  fourteen mills  went  out  of floor  production. 
(a) Exports of meat meals from  Australia totalled some  80,000 short tons  in  1971-72.  (b)  Domestic  production  of meat meals in 1971-72 was 380,552 tons so that  approximately  300,000 tons would have been  available  to the local market Precise figures  relating to the quantity of meat meal used is stock feed manufacture are not available. 
No precise information is available to me (see answers to (2), (3), (4) and (5)). 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The possible impact of the European Economic Community's enlargement, and in particular of Britain's entry, on Australia's rural exports has been and remains a subject of close and continuing scrutiny by the Department of Primary Industry and its economic research unit, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The issue has been considered on both an aggregate basis and at the individual commodity level and numerous reports have been prepared. 
Copies of reports completed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which deal with the subject are available on request from the Bureau. Recent reports include: 
Impact on Australia's Agricultural Trade of the United Kingdom's Accession to an Enlarged European Economic Community', Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. XXV, No.  3,  July  1972; 
 The Australian Farm Situation:  1971-72',  Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. XXV, No.  1,  January  1972.  "The Australian Farm Situation:  1972-73',  Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. XXVI, No.  1,  January  1973. 
Export Market Prospects for Australian Canned Deciduous Fruits', Occasional Paper No. 6; "The Outlook for the Australian Canned Deciduous Fruits Industry', Occasional Paper No.  12; 
The Market for Australian Applesin the United Kingdom', Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. XXV, No.  2,  April  1972; 
Markets for Australian Fresh Pears', Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. XXV, No.  4,  October  1972; 
The Dairy Situation, No. 18, October 1972; 
Present World Dairy Production and Market Outlets - Trends Likely to Influence These in the Future - Australian Production and Market Situation and Trends', Paper presented at Commonwealth Dairy Farm Management Conference, Sydney, July 1972; 
The Meat Situation, No. 1, August 1972; 
The EEC Market for Beef and Veal', Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics, Vol. XXIV, No. 3, July 1971; 
Trends in EEC Production Consumption and Trade', The Coarse Grain Situation, No. 16, November 1971; 
Substitution in the Supply of Cereals in France', The Coarse Grains and Oilseeds Situation, No. 17, November 1972; 
Keynote Addresses and Background Papers presented at the Third National Agricultural Outlook Conference, Canberra, February 1973. 
Keynote Addresses: 'The World Agricultural Situation' and 'International Trading Arrangements'. 
Background Papers:'The Outlook for Cereals', The Outlook for Meat', 'The Outlook for Dairy Products','The Outlook for Fruit', 'The Outlook for Sugar', 'The Outlook for Oilseeds and Pulses', 'The Outlook for Eggs', 'The Outlook for Rice', 'The Outlook for Wool' and 'The Outlook for Cotton'. 
Other research into the question is continuing and reports will be published as individual research projects are completed. 
The assessment of the impact of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community is a complex task involving a comparison between what might have happened in both the original and new member countries of the EEC in the absence of the Common Market's enlargement and what might happen as a result of this enlargement. To make such comparisons it is necessary to assess the possible future course of production, consumption and trade in farm commodities in Britain, the former members and other new members under the 2 alternatives. Any such assessment must take into account the possibility for substitution in both production and consumption between the various farm products. It must be based also on assumptions about future trends in agricultural policies in the older and newer Common Market members in the absence of and with the EEC's enlargement. 
There are other areas of uncertainty as well; for instance the measures dealing with the entry of Commonwealth sugar into the United Kingdom after the expiry of the British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement at the end of 1974 are still to be negotiated. The adoption of the Value Added Tax system in Britain could also have some impact on the prospective situation. Nor is it by any means certain that the European Economic Community will retain its Common Agricultural Policy completely unchanged in its present form, Britain has already made moves for a review of the CAP aimed at reducing food prices below the levels that would exist under the present policy. 
The assessments that have been made must be revised continually in the light of new developments regarding the trade and agricultural policies of the many countries concerned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wool Tax Bills (Nos 1 to 5) as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The policy of the Australian Labor Party in this respect is quite clear. A review will be made of existing zonal boundaries which are predominantly in northern Australia - I refer to zones A and B - and at the same time there will be a revision of the basic allowances for those zones, having regard to living conditions, income tax deductions and social services. The honourable member will know that the zonal system has been in operation since 1945. Its introduction was a recognition by the Chifley Labor Government of the severe economic disabilities suffered by people working and living in northern Australia. These boundaries were reviewed and altered in 1956 by the Menzies Government. The basic allowances pertaining to the zones have not been altered since 1958-59. So it is clear that there is some need for a review of the boundaries. 
In recent years there has been a change in the economic structure of people living in northern Australia, in terms of the development of townships, and today there are some very serious anomalies For example, some of the new mining towns in north Queensland, despite the fact that they are in remote areas, are outside Zone B. Obviously this is causing some problems to people living there, in terms of justification of the present zoning. I cannot offer any comment on whether a move such as that suggested by the honourable member would be challenged in the courts. All I can say is that the zone allowances system has been in operation for 28 years and is designed to correct an obvious disability of people living in remote areas where living and other costs are well ahead of those people living in the capital cities. Whether any alternative system is available would be, of course, a matter for the Government and particularly the Treasurer. 
The Press communique which the honourable member read from must have been incorrect. A decision has been taken - I understand it has been announced and will be discussed - that the Government will carry out a comprehensive review of the wheat stabilisation scheme. There is no doubt whatsoever about where we stand on this issue. We support wheat stabilisation. As I have indicated before, it was a Labor government that introduced the wheat stabilisation scheme in Australia. There is no conflict at all within the Labor Party as regards the principles of wheat stabilisation. The principles which have been followed by the Labor Party over the years are shown in our platform and are accepted by the Labor Government. The Minister for Primary Industry will be negotiating with the Ministers who constitute the Australian Agricultural Council tomorrow - the Standing Committee on Agriculture meets today - on current issues with respect to wheat stabilisation. 
in reply - The Government rejects the amendment for the following reasons: Although the tax has been increased it is the same as was levied prior to 1970-71. This has not been brought out by the Opposition. The fact is that the total amount of funds required for 1973-74 for the promotional research program is not being reduced. What is being reduced is the basis of the contribution. Another point which has been consistently made is that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  did not consult the industry. That is incorrect. He consulted the Australian Wool Industry Conference. He gave the Government's reasons for the variance. He discussed it with AWIC. He did not debate the question. 
In regard to the allegations that the Government has broke an undertaking, it is a fact that an offer was made on the eve of the last elections with respect to a continuing forward program. That offer was not in any way conveyed to this Parliament. It was not by any stretch of imagination debated in this Parliament. It was not an offer in the true sense of the word which in any way could bind an incoming government. It is completely absurd to say that the Government has broken an undertaking. Apparently some letter was written to the industry on the eve of the elections putting forward this proposition. In regard to the comments made regarding the Australian Wool Corporation, the Government has no opposition to the new head of the Corporation,  Mr Maiden.  I worked with  Mr Maiden  for 15 years prior to entering the political arena. I know him well. I respect him and I can assure the House that he will make an excellent contribution to the wool industry in Australia. 
He is the man that your Government appointed. 
My goodness. There is no weakening whatsoever with respect to the Government's obligation to a continuing program of research. This has been made clear by the Minister in his second reading speech and it has been made clear to the industry and to the AWIC. For those reasons the Government rejects the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr MalcolmFraser's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The Australian Wool Corporation proposes to establish working groups from the many organisations and individuals working in this field with a view to co-ordinating the development and implementation of efficient wool harvesting techniques. The Corporation is presently in the process of recruiting a project officer specifically for this task. 
Australian National Committee of the International Wool Textile Organisation  (Question No 473) 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am informed that the functions of the Australian National Committee of the International Wool Textile Organisation are: 
Acts as a forum for the discussion of problems relating to the wool trade in Australia. 
Disseminates information emanating from IWTO and distributes the regulations for wool trading and technical specifications accepted nationally. 
Contributes to and sanctions international regulations as above, including sampling and core-testing. 
Conducts arbitrations in disputes between parties of contracts in wool or wool products. 
Enables the Australian Wool Testing Authority and other test houses to be listed under the rules of the IWTO. 
Nominated delegates and observers to IWTO conferences. 
Contributes to the formulation of Australian and international standards concerning wool processes. 
No. 
I am informed that the current membership of the National Committee comprises the following: 
Thismust be regarded as one of the shallowest, superficial and hypocritical discussion proposals to come before this Parliament. Just listen to the wording of the subject the Opposition asks us to discuss as a matter of public importance. It is: 
The Government's lack of concern for the longterm needs of rural industry and the uncertainty being created by the Government's inability and unwillingness to make long-term decisions on rural industries. 
In fact, the substance of this matter is the same as that of matters that I have proposed for discussion in this Parliament for the 7 years immediately before this new Govern' ment was elected. I criticised and took to task the previous government for doing or failing to do exactly what the Opposition is attempting to allege we are doing or failing to do. Have honourable members ever heard such superficial nonsense? One of the main reasons why the previous government was finally turfed out of office was its pathetic lack of leadership with respect to long term planning. This was emphasised throughout every State in the nation. It was unable to make and incapable of making positive decisions. It thrived on ad hoc-ery and on short term political expediency. It refused to make positive decisions. In fact, this is one of the main reasons why the primary producers of Australia finally revoked and took part in protest marches in respect of the wheat industry, the wool industry and other industries. Finally the primary producers had had enough, as was demonstrated in the last election. 
Let us have a look at some of the previous government's performances in this field before it starts to throw stones. Let us look at the history of the wool industry for a start. If ever there was one industry that has been crying out for marketing reform it is the wool industry. What did the previous government do in this field? Its whole characteristic over the years was one of no action. 
I have noticed a great change in the honourable member's character since the previous government lost the election. He cannot accept the fact that he is in Opposition. In fact, 2 doctor's on this side of the House-- 
The previous Government was so inactive that in 1964 the position had degenerated to the point where wool industry leaders in desperation wanted a price reserve scheme. I pay credit to a previous Minister for Primary Industry  (Sir Charles Adermann)  for being able to get that scheme through a hostile Cabinet. But what did the previous government do? It did not back him; it succumbed to the vested interests of the wool brokers, the rich and affluent represented by the honourable member for Wannon m this field, to stall a reserve price scheme. The vested interests finally won and no reserve price scheme was introduced. Yet the Leader of the Country Party talks about long term planning. No more action was taken in this field by the previous Government. 
Will you shut up? We had an abortive, weak Government in respect to the wool industry. No more action was taken in this field at all until the industry itself took action. It organised protest marches. It made decisions in relation to price acquisition schemes to attempt to get the previous government do something in long term planning. The clouds on the horizon with respect to international action on polyesters, acrylics, nylons, all pointed to a downturn of wool prices. The warning was ignored by the Government and the crash finally came. In desperation the previous Government started to move, and - typical of its disregard of long term planning action - it took short term, politically expedient action. 
A series of committees were set up to investigate in this field. The Crawford report, the Randall report and countless Australian Wool Industry Conference reports were brought down stressing the need for marketing reform in the wool industry. What action was taken? None. Again in desperation the previous Government finally succumbed to the interests of the wool industry in amalgamating the Wool Commission and the Wool Board - a move which should have been taken years ago. The previous Government refused an attempt by the then Opposition to establish a committee to report on wool acquisition. Such a report still has not been made. This Government wants to get such a report as quickly as possible so that it can act on it. 
Let us deal with the wheat industry. If ever there has been an industry which has rebelled against the negative policies of the previous government it is this industry. A Labor Party government introduced an orderly marketing scheme and a wheat stabilisation scheme into this Parliament and the nation. But despite the warnings the previous government refused to act on the formula laid down until 1968. I give credit to the Leader of the Country Party for stopping an injustice to the taxpayers and consumers of Australia regarding the formula involved in these schemes. He altered the cost of production formula as it should have been altered years before and related it to increases in the actual cash movements in the index. However, on the other hand he perpetrated one of the most savage injustices with respect to the wheat stabilisation scheme. He abolished the one price scheme and, in effect, instead of having a weighted price per bushel of $1.51 he inserted 2 prices  -  $1.45 for export guarantee and $1.70 for home consumption price. Everybody knows that of all primary industries the one which has the most effect in the community on low income earners because of its relationship to the cost of bread is the wheat industry. The Leader of the Country Party put the burden on the low income earning consumers. This is completely unfair and it is one thing that the Labor Party will alter in the next wheat stabilisation scheme. 
I turn now to the injustice with respect to the prices for surpluses for stock feed. On the one hand the Leader of the Country Party was saying that we must pay $1.70 or more for stock feed, yet on the other hand he allowed blackmarketing to become rife in New South Wales and Victoria. Finally he gave in to the then Opposition and an amendment to the Wheat Stabilisation Act was introduced which reduced the price of stock feed in a sensible fashion. Of course, the big crunch came through the deliberate foreign policies of the previous government. Due to insults by that Government it lost the wheat trade to China. Its involvement in Vietnam, the insults by its Ministers and its continuous disastrous foreign policies caused one of the greatest wheat trading nations of the world to put Australia at the bottom of its list and discriminate against us. 
The subject of this discussion is long term planning. What has the Government done with respect to the wheat industry? Only 2 days ago I received a cable in the following terms in connection with the visit of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to China: 
During special session with Minister Pai this morning  Dr Cairns  was asked to arrange for representatives of the Wheat Board and the Wool Corporation to visit Peking at the earliest possible opportunity for discussion and negotiation on long-term arrangements for wheat and wool. 
Yet the Leader of the Australian Country Party had the audacity to say that the Government is not interested in long-term interests, long-term arrangements or long-term planning. The word 'planning' was a dirty word in the Liberal and Country parties for over 20 years. One has only to read some of the speeches of  Sir Robert  Menzies to illustrate that point of view. 
Let us turn to the beef industry. One of the greatest problems in the beef industry, because it is a major export industry, is the threat of a boycott of our exports because of the prevalence of specialised diseases. For years the beef cattle industry in Australia tried to get the previous Government to introduce compensation schemes particularly in the field of tuberculosis reactors. Every time it was raised with that Government, the Government turned it down despite the pleas of the beef industry. If anybody knows, the Leader of the Country Party knows that the one thing that could wreck the beef industry would be the imposition by the United States of America and other major nations of restrictions on imports from a country in which there was a specified disease. What has the present Government done? One of the first things I did when I became a Minister was to talk to industry representatives and to put forward proposals to Cabinet in relation to compensation for tuberculosis reactors in every State in the Commonwealth. Cabinet agreed to those proposals. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  put forward a similar submission in relation to upgrading the amount of compensation for brucellosis. Yet the former Government talked about long-term planning. I have stated specific instances of the actual position. 
In 1960 the then Government commissioned a top level committee of inquiry - the McCarthy Committee - to investigate the problems of the dairy industry. The Committee's report was made available in that same year. It recommended long-term planning that the Government should follow. The report" was pigeonholed. It never saw the light of day again. People in the dairy industry are still fighting amongst themselves, as was characteristic of the 23 years of previous LiberalCountry Party governments. 
In regard to long-term planning let me now deal with the Leader of the Country Party and what he did in the early 1970s when the most important European Economic Community negotiations with respect to developing Commonwealth countries and Australia were taking place. Where was the Minister at that time? He was here. He should have been in London at that time but that was the time of the overthrow of the Gorton Government - the coup by  Mr McMahon.  The Leader of the Country Party was not game to leave this country because of what might happen. The previous Leader of the Country Party had refused to serve under  Mr McMahon  as Prime Minister. But what happened when  Mr McMahon  became the Prime Minister? With a smile on his face, the Leader of the Country Party pledged full allegiance to him. He should have been in London with the leaders of New Zealand and of the other developing Commonwealth countries looking after our interests. We are still uncertain about the phasing out of our markets in the United Kingdom, Questions are still being asked in the House of Commons about this matter. The full Warne for the position must be taken by the Leader of the Country Party for not being in London and Brussels at that time. 
I want to deal with another issue relating to long-term planning. This is something that might even shock the Leader of the Country Party. I refer to water conservation. It is one of the things which are needed in this country. Never have I been more hoodwinked than when the government changed hands . and I learned the truth about the previous Government's investigations and progress in water conservation schemes. Let me deal with some of the schemes that happen to fall within my responsibility. In 1949 the right honourable  Sir Arthur  Fadden said about the Burdekin scheme: 
We will not pigeonhole it for the future. We will build it. 
Eighteen years later, in 1967, the Government through the then Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  announced to the House that the Government would investigate the Burdekin scheme. Two years later, in 1969, no action had been taken. The Government then announced that it would have to wait until it had finished its benefit-cost evaluation analysis of the Urannah project. It sold a pup to the Burdekin people and to the Premier of Queensland. 
When the new Federal Government came to office the first thing I did was call for the papers on the Urannah scheme. I found that the evaluation had not even started. What has happened over this 20-year period? Phase 2 of the Bundaberg scheme was supposed to start at the end of this year. I was under the impression and so was my honourable friend from Wide Bay  (Mr Hanson)  - I would not mind betting that some of the former Ministers were also under this impression - that the former Minister for National Development and the people who served under him had completed the analysis evaluation of the Bundaberg scheme so that a decision could be taken in Cabinet. 
It is right. There has been no economic evaluation made of phase 2 of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. Now we have to go back and tell the people of Bundaberg that the previous Government did nothing but hoodwink them for the last 5 years. No evaluation analysis had been made. The same thing applies to the Eton irrigation scheme which happens to be in my electorate. It took 2 years for the previous Government to make a decision, and no evaluation analysis had been made. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for conversion to metric measure of the definitions of a 'winery' and a distillery' for the purpose of the requisition of a poll and voting, under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1966. Any such poll would relate to the question of whether the Act - and so the Australian Wine Board - should continue in operation. Provision for such a poll has been included in the Act since its inception. The amendment proposed in the Bill has been introduced simply to accord with the wine industry's progress in metric conversion. The intention of the present provision in the Act would not be altered. 
The change now proposed is simply to substitute the nearest rational metric quantity, 25 tonnes, for the imperial system quantity, 25 tons, of annual grape intake which at present determines whether an establishment is a winery or a distillery for the purpose of this Act. In a Bill, which I have just introduced, to convert to metric measure certain references in the Wine Grapes Charges Act, a different quantity of annual grape intake determines a winery or distillery. The 10 tons currently specified in that Act is amended to 10 tonnes. This difference between the definitions in the 2 Acts has existed for many years. The lower qualification in the Wine Grapes Charges Act is intended to spread as widely as possible the burden of financing the Australian Wine Board. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for conversion to metric measure of the definitions of a 'winery' and a distillery', and for conversion into metric measure of the maximum rates of charges applicable to the grape intake of such establishments, under the Wine Grapes Charges Act 1929-1969. This Government has accepted that Australia should convert to use of the metric system as the system of measurement of physical quantities. 
Some Australian industries have already converted to metric measurement, and many others are well-advanced in their conversion programs. The wine industry is well to the forefront in this sphere and I understand that operations at all wine processing establishments are expected to be converted by 1 July next to measurement by the metric system. The present Bill provides for amendment of the Wine Grapes Charges Act 1929-1969 in the ways necessary to give effect to metric conversion. One change now proposed is to substitute the nearest rational metric quantity, 10 tonnes, for the imperial system quantity, 10 tons, of annual grape intake which now determines whether an establishment is a winery or distillery for the purpose of making charges under this Act. 
A second proposed change provides that the maximum rates of charge which may be applied will be converted from $2.50 per ton of fresh grapes and $7.50 per ton of dried grapes to the same amounts per tonne. This change also substitutes the nearest rational metric quantity, the tonne, for the imperial unit, the ton, on which these charges are based. I may add that the use of the tonne as the basic unit in this case results in a small increase of about  H  per cent in the maximum rates of charges. Funds raised under the Wine Grapes Charges Act provide virtually the whole income of the Australian Wine Board, which is responsible, inter alia, for controlling and promoting the export of Australian wine. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
I have taken the question to relate to my speech to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Meeting of Agricultural Ministers in Paris on 11 April 1973. I have arranged for the honourable member to be supplied with a copy of this speech. It is the intention of this Government to ensure that, as far as practicable, we match our production with the long term market trends. 
The nature and conditions of Government assistance will be negotiated with industries on the basis of market prospects where this is appropriate. 
Production control is a State Government responsibility. 
See (3) above. 
See (2) above. 
Yes, in-so-far as they are in bearing condition. 
Under the States Grants (Fruitgrowing Reconstruction) Act 1972 funds are made available by the Government to assist landholders without adequate financial resources to remove surplus fruit trees. 
Yes. 
It is a fact that a substantial quantity of sugar  -  50,000 tons - has just been sold to the People's Republic of China. The honourable member will appreciate that I am not able to give the precise details of the price because of obvious commercial reasons and the practice that is followed when selling sugar to countries within the provisions of the International Sugar Agreement. China is not a member of the Agreement and all aspects of the sale were conducted within the provisions which apply to the sale of sugar to countries which are not members of the Agreement. The sale is excellent news as far as Australia is concerned because following on the successful achievements of the trade mission which is at present in China with respect to wheat and wool it is now clear that this very large sale of sugar heralds the expansion of good trading relations between Australia and China. I can assure the honourable member that the actual value of the sugar certainly is in conformity with existing commercial prices, which would mean that based on the present world free trade price the sale would be worth about $8. 5m. I believe that Australia also has an excellent chance of selling more sugar to China. There is every indication that this will occur, particularly in view of the ability of this country to supply very high grade sugar, to provide regular shipments and to live up to the highest standards of international trade. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Wheat Research Act 1957, I present the 15 th annual report of the activities under the Act for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Egg Export Control Act 1947-1966, I present the 25th annual report of the Australian Egg Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1972 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented to the House on 12 September 1972. 
The House will be aware of various statements made by the Minister for Primary Industry and me regarding wheat stabilisation and the plans for the next 12 months. The Government has decided to carry out a comprehensive review of wheat stabilisation, to extend the current provisions relating to wheat stabilisation for the next 12 months pending that review and to make certain provisions relating to the guaranteed price of SI. 60 a bushel. The Government also has given an undertaking that it will make provision for a new stabilisation scheme to be submitted to it by the end of the year. The decision to extend the scheme for 12 months was criticised in this Parliament, particularly by the honourable member for Wannon and the Leader of the Australian Country Party and others,, as being a sellout of the wheat industry. I am pleased to inform the House that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation has unanimously endorsed the Government's decision. 
If the honourable member had been present in this House during the various debates when Australia was placed at the bottom of the list as regards wheat sales to China and when it was made quite clear following the Canadian recognition of China that we would continue to be placed at that level, he would realise the truth of the content of what I se id and that it was the action and the disastrous foreign policies of the previous Government that caused the Chinese Government to take this action. 
It is true. When the Minister for Overseas Trade returns to Australia this week I am quite certain he will enlighten some of the members of the Opposition further on why Australia lost wheat sales at a very critical stage of development in the wheat industry itself. As regards sugar sales to China, let me inform (he honourable member that prior to the visit of the Prime Minister to China we had never sold any sugar to that nation. Whilst there we had extensive discussions with the Chinese authorities on sugar soles to China. We were informed that In the event of Cuba not being able to supply the needs of China, Australia would be given a high priority in relation to selling sugar to China. 

 Dr- PATTERSON - You would not know anything about it. In China we informed the authorities of the proven performance of Australia in relation to both quality and quantity. We also told them about the excellent technology of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd is respect of both selling and on the technical front of sugar handling. CSR has for several years now been negotiating with Chines authorities with respect to the selling of sugar, This Government backs the sale of sugar to China to the hilt. We believe that there will ho more sales of .raw sugar to China and wo give full credit to the work, of CSR. in China. It is backed by this Government. It certainly was noi becked by the previous Government regarding sales of commodities to China; 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My Department does not occupy any buildings in the States which are not owned by the Australian Government. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has received two reports from interdepartmental committees regarding post revaluation adjustment assistance to rural industries and to secondary industries. 
No. These committee reports are attached to cabinet documents which are confidential. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
Fruit fly road blocks and check points throughout Australia are designed to restrict the movement of all species of the fruit fly. However, the Queensland fruit fly, a native to Australia, is predominant in the Eastern States and outbreaks of Mediterranean fruit fly, the introduced species, occur mainly in Western Australia. 
Road blocks and check points are in the following areas: 
New South Wales/Victoria Border. 
There are 20 road blocks and 13 part time  check points as follows: Wodonga, Euston, Echuca, Bairnsdale, Genoa, Bringenbrong, Cann River, Cobram, Koondrook, Stuart Highway (Merbein), Swan Hill, Tocumwal, Tooleybuc, Wahgunyah, Wentworth, Yarrawonga, Yarrawonga Stock Route Bridge, Orbost, Nyah, Jingellic, Howlong, Hume Weir, Gonn Crossing, Bethanga Bridge and Calder Highway (Red Cliffs). 
New South Wales/South Australia Border. 
One at Cockburn which is near Broken Hill. 
Victoria/South Australia Border. 
One at Yamba near Renmark and one at Pinnaroo near Mildura. 
South Australia/Western Australia Border. One at Ceduna and one at Norseman. 
In addition there are numerous other check points at various interstate transport centres. 
A large percentage of the work carried out to contain fruit fly within State boundaries and within particular areas of States is also directed at other plant and animal insects, pests and diseases. However, the following annual estimates of expenditure have been provided which include all aspects of fruit fly control work other than research expenditure: 
The Minister for Primary In dustry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The sum confirmed by the Australian Wool Corporation is$11,435,329. 
The amount of $11,435,329 has been paid by the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Corporation. The estimated total cost of the Yennora Wool Centre is$17m most of which has been committed to contractors. 
No. 
Current rental charged for Stages I and II, which are now occupied, amounts to$9.8 cents per square foot per annum. The charge includes such elements as provision for interest and loan redemption, rates and taxes and insurance. 
The Centre is leased by the Australian Wool Corporation to the firm Sydney Woolbrokers Ltd, which operates the complex. Sydney Woolbrokers Ltd, is composed of all Sydney Wool Brokers other than Pitt Son and Badgery Ltd. 
The business of the following brokers is presently handled at the complex by Sydney Woolbrokers Ltd, Dalgety Australia Ltd, Schute Bell &amp; Co. Ltd, Farmers &amp; Graziers Co-op. Co. Ltd, Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd, Winchcombe Carson Ltd. Grazcos Co-op Ltd, occupy a former Railways building on the site on sub-lease from Sydney Woolbrokers Ltd. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Since its establishment on 1 January 1973, the Australian Wool Corporation has held discussions with industrial organisations as follows: 
With the Wool Classers' Association of Australia  on  7 March. 
With the General Secretary, Federated Storemen and Packers' Union of Australia on 26 March. 
With representatives of the Federated Storemen and Packers' Union in company with representatives of the Department of Primary Industry on 1 9 April. 
With representatives of the Federated Storemen and Packers' Union on 27 April. 
In addition, there have been several discussions on the subject between senior officers of the Corporation and individual State officials of the Storemen and Packers' Union. 
During the same period the Corporation has held discussions with wool trade organisations as follows: 
With the Joint Wool Selling Organisation on 26 January,15 February, 23 March, 1 8 April. 
With the Executive Committee of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers of Australia on 16 February and with the Operations Committee of that body on 18 April. 
With the Australian Council of Wool Buyers on 2 March. 
With the Executive Committee and Wool Industry Policy Committee of the Australian Wool Industry Conference on 29 and 30 March. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As set out in my statement to the Press on 12 June, 1973-a copy of which has been forwarded to the honourable memberthe Australian Government has decided to establish Federal/State organisation to speed up the development of northern Australia. The organisation will be called, the Northern Development Council. 
Pursuant to section 26 of the Tobacco Marketing Act 1965-1966,  I  present the Seventh Annual Report of the Australian Tobacco Board regarding the operation of the Act for the year ended 31 December 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4) The details sought are provided in the above tabulation: 
No. 
The summary of decisions taken at the 1972 meetings between Commonwealth and States to review the operation of the Rural Reconstruction Scheme included the following statements: 
States will manage their operations so as to keep approvals within the limit of SI 15m in 1971-73 without a hiatus in the Scheme; 
In managing their operations . . . the States would work to a programme of approvals and expenditure . . . .; 
It is an understanding that the States will endeavour to deal with applications at such a rate that approvals and expenditure are spread as uniformly as possible over the period . . . .' 
In a letter dated 25 May 1972, the Minister for Lands in New South Wales advised that the summary '. . . is acceptable to me as a record of the outcome of the review". 
and (9) The agreements between the Commonwealth and the States include an outline of the principles on which the Rural Reconstruction Scheme is based and should be administered. Within these principles, the particular methods used to manage funds and the criteria observed for assessing the viability of farms are matters for determination by each State without reference to the Australian Government. In practice the criteria used and the methods adopted vary from State to State. Analyses of the Administration of the Scheme in the various States have been published in a recent report by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. States other than New South Wales have dealt with applications in a way that has brought about an uninterrupted flow of approvals within the limits of available funds. 
The  Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Since 1 January 1970, the Australian Government and the States have been jointly financing a nation-wide campaign for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis from Australian cattle herds. 
and (4) The following table shows the expenditure by the States and Australian Government for the period 1 January 1970 to 30 June 1972. 
If the honourable member wishes to read the Budget he will find that a great deal of money has been made available in various fields in the northern part of Australia - in the fields of health, education, Aboriginal development, public works, water conservation-- 
The honourable member has not even read the Budget. He asks: 'What about the Burdekin River?' What did the previous government do about the development of the Burdekin River for the last 23 years and how much money did it make available in the last 23 years even for investigations? The answer is precisely nothing. It gave not one cent. Seeing that we are on that subject, who will forget the words of the then Leader of the Australian Country Party in 1949, when he said: 'We will build the Burdekin Dam.' That was in 1949. When this Government came to power some of the first things that I called for were the progressive reports on the Federal evaluation of the Burdekin proposals. I got nothing. There had been no evaluation made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. In this Budget priority has been given to the Burdekin proposals. A sum of $200,00 has been made available for investigations in this financial year and this will be matched by $200,000 from the Queensland Government. So a sum of $400,000 is to be injected immediately into a top level investigation of the Burdekin proposals. I suggest that the honourable member for Wannon keep quiet in relation to the Burdekin proposal, because his government did precisely nothing about it. 
One of the major areas of development in northern Australia will be Townsville. My colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, has given this a high priority. 
He was recently in northern Queensland and saw some of the shocking conditions in Gladstone. What did the previous government do to help local government in Gladstone? What did the previous government do in respect of local government in Townsville? Development will be carried out in these places by the present Government. If honourable members opposite look at the Budget papers they will find that a large amount of money in fact, the greatest amount allocated in any financial period during the last 24 years will be diverted to northern Australia this financial year. 
It is obvious that the honourable member should have directed this question to the Treasurer. It is a technical matter of depreciation allowance for taxation purposes. I will draw this matter to the attention of the Treasurer for a full reply. 
One of the main objectives in altering the depreciation allowances was to place depreciation allowances for special equipment on the same basis as those allowances provided for every other person in the community for structural improvements. The figures relating to increased revenues for all of the items mentioned were precisely laid out in the Budget. I suggest that the honourable member should read the Budget and if he does not have that information I am quite certain that the Treasurer will provide it. 
Answering the last part of the question first, there can be no doubt that in terms of the stability of the Australian sugar industry and the world sugar industry the International Sugar Agreement is a most vital agreement. The Agreement directly affects the prosperity of many areas in eastern Australia where sugar production really is a monoculture. The honourable member for Leichhardt knows full well the great advantage to his own area of Cairns of an international sugar agreement. Certainly we do not want to go back to the position that existed prior to 1968 when we saw the world price for sugar rise to above St100 a ton and then a few years later drop to the disastrous price of Stg 12 a ton. The successful negotiation of the 1968 International Sugar Agreement and the position that has existed for the last 5 years have shown the tremendous importance of this Agreement. In fact, almost every economic clause in the Agreement has been tested and proven to be successful. 
I am aware of the attitude of the European Economic Community and particularly the attitude of France. At the May negotiations France opposed a new agreement. The EEC - this view was mainly held by France - wanted an extension of the present agreement, and there were some grounds for this as far as the EEC was concerned in regard to its common agricultural policy on beet sugar. Also there was the possibility of problems relating to Britain's entry into the EEC as that affected developing countries and Australia. Consequently the EEC argued that there should be an extension of the Agreement. However, every other major importing and exporting country - including Australia, Cuba and Brazil as exporters and Japan and Canada as importers - were 100 per cent behind a new agreement. Although the EEC is not a member of the International Sugar Agreement I can say that it has acted very responsibly in the last 5 years. It has not done anything such as dumping of export sugar or anything detrimental to the world price of sugar. 
It is our hope and the hope of most nations in the world participating at the forthcoming talks that the European Economic Community will join the International Sugar Agree ment. I have no need to inform the honourable members that sugar is the most dynamic of all commodities in international trade because of world politics. Honourable members opposite who took part in negotiations know full well the difficulties with respect to the agreement brought about through the existence of the great trading blocs such as Comecon - the Soviet bloc - the European Economic Community, and the strength of nations such as Japan and the United StatesEach of these nations participates in talks as a member or an observer. I can assure the honourable member that it is the express policy of the Government to do anything possible to negotiate a successful international sugar agreement at the forthcoming talks. 
in reply - The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  asked why in the Wine Overseas Marketing Bill the definition of *winery' and 'distillery' has a qualification of 25 tonnes when in the 
Wine Grape Charges Bill the qualification is 10 tonnes. This has been an established practice over the years. The reason for the lower qualification in the Wine Grape Charges Bill is obviously to spread more widely the burden of financing the Australian Wine Board. There is no other reason. This is not a matter that has been raised with the Government by the industry. 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the information in the table below in answer to the honourable member's question.  fourth schedule of the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973; i.e. his salary is $29,250 per annum and his expense allowance is $1,750 per annum (g) See answer to questions (a) to (e). 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
Last week the Treasurer announced that there would be a recoupment of expenditure in connection with the meat inspection services for export meat. The amount involved was lc a lb on all meats. At the same time it was announced that there would be a recoupment of expenditure incurred in the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The time period for the recoupment of expenditure on meat marketing inspection services starts on 1 October this year. I would assume that the same date would apply in regard to the recoupment of expenditure incurred in the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The actual methods of recoupment are still under active consideration. If one had some imagination about this, as apparently the Opposition members have not, one would know that there are limited means by which recoupment can .take place. It could be by an export levy, by a slaughtering levy or by other methods incorporating those two. If there were an export levy, the incidence would of course fall principally on the export producing areas. If there were- (Opposition members interjecting) - 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I did issue a statement welcoming the purchase of wool from the Australian Wool Corporation by the Chinese wool mission which recently visited Australia. My comments differed somewhat from the words cited in the question but I expressed the hope that further business would be written between the Australian Wool Corporation and the China National Textiles Import and Export Corporation. 
I have no knowledge of any individual sales of wool made to China by private firms. The total exports of wool from Australia to China in recent years have been as follows: 
I am very much aware of the concern and the efforts of the honourable member for Wide Bay with respect to this important water conservation project in an area which is very adversely affected from time to time by seasonal conditions. This project has been before the Commonwealth for some 10 years. The previous Government provided some assistance for it in 1970. In October lost year and in February this year the Queensland Premier wrote to the previous Government and this Government respectively for financial assistance amounting to $ 18.5m with respect to phase 2 of stage 1 of the project. The policy of the Labor Government is that it will support soundly based water conservation projects in proven and established areas provided that an evaluation analysis has been carried out and, of course, that the results are made available to the public. 
The first thing I did when we received the letter from the Premier was to call for the Federal evaluation report on the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. There is no report. The previous Government just hoodwinked the people of Bundaberg, and the people of Queensland for that matter. There is just no Federal evaluation analysis. The same thing happened with respect to Urannah. A request came from the Queensland Premier at the same time about this scheme. The honourable member for Herbert will know this. I again called for the Federal evaluation analysis to put a case to Cabinet. One just has not been done, despite the fact that the previous Government said that this scheme had been under Federal investigation since 1967. It was just hoodwinking the people of Queensland again. The same thing happened with respect to the Eton irrigation project. Assistance for that project was refused by the previous Government last year without any evaluation analysis whatsoever. 
The first thing that the Whitlam-Barnard Government did was to reverse the previous decision and ask for an evaluation report. The scheme proved to be sound and in the Budget we financed it. I oan assure the honourable member for Wide Bay that consideration of the Bundaberg irrigation project is in hand and that organisations such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Snowy Mountains Corporation, as well as the Department of Environment and Conservation and the Department of Northern Development, have started an evaluation analysis. As soon as that is completed I will put a case to the Cabinet. The same applies to several other water conservation projects which are now being investigated in Queensland. 
I am aware, as are most honourable members, of the very high price of wheat on the world market. This is due to demand and supply which has resulted in a world shortage of wheat. We can be thankful that we have a wheat stabilisation scheme which is stabilising the price of wheat on the home market for stock feed and for human consumption. A somewhat similar position applied in the post-war years when, the world price of wheat was two to three times the domestic price. That was one of the reasons why the then Labor Government had introduced the wheat stabilisation scheme. The honourable member for Moore will know that for all practical purposes we have no stocks of wheat for sale. That is all there is to it. A few days ago I was informed that the Australian Wheat Board has sold approximately 1 million tonnes of wheat - which is about 37 million bushels - this year for delivery next year. It will be delivered for shipment after 1 December, which is in the next crop year. This is a delicate situation and it depends on what the harvest will be this year. Obviously, the Wheat Board must take a very responsible attitude to selling wheat for delivery next year, when it will have the wheat to sell until after the next harvest; but approximately 1 million tonnes has already been sold forward. 
The latest figures that come to my mind on the actual costs of administration are $250,000 to $300,000 for keeping the people employed and for the various administrative responsibilities regarding the wheat quotas. I am conscious that this may be a very high figure in terms of the present situation. I shall draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the question and ask him for a more detailed answer in relation to the actual number of men and women employed. I think the honourable member will appreciate that I do not have those figures in my head. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. The policy of the Corporation in allocating testing of wool owned by the Corporation was set out in the answer provided to Question No. 395. 
The test requirements of the Corporation are predominantly for normal post sale certificate purposes. I am informed that during 1972-73, Auscore quoted lower rates for such tests than did the Australian Wool Testing Authority; the Auscore price list dated 1 July 1973, however, indicates that its charges for the current year are not lower than those of the Authority. The reason for the Corporation providing the major part of its testing business to the Australian Wool Testing Authority is apparent from the foregoing answers. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
Application received to 31.7.1973- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following northern water conservation projects have been submitted by the Queensland Government to the Federal Government within the last five years for consideration for financial assistance. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Bounty is paid to dairy farmers at a uniform rate for butterfat, regardless of whether they are cream or milk suppliers. Factory payment to milk suppliers covers both butterfat content and an allowance for solids-not-fat. Factory payment to cream suppliers covers butterfat only (although, of course, the cream supplier receives income independently of the factory from the use of skim milk retained on the farm). Thus, the incidence of bounty in a factory's payment to cream suppliers is greater than in that to milk suppliers, and, in this sense, the with drawal of bounty has a greater impact on the cream supplier. Assistance to cream suppliers to change over to whole milk supply is one measure under examination as a result of my invitation to industry organisations to submit proposals for adjustment assistance. I could not foreshadow the outcome of this examination, which will necessarily depend upon the evidence submitted by the industry and the Government's assessment of that evidence. 
The operation of the voluntary equalisation arrangement is, I understand, under discussion within the industry. The Australian Government's attitude to proclaiming the relevant legislation would be determined after considering all relevant information should the occasion occur. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Apple and Pear Organisation Act 1938-1971 I present the twenty-seventh annual report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise a grant of $550,000 to the Queensland Government to assist in financing the construction of 2 weirs - one on the main stream of the lower Dawson River to replace an existing small weir, and another weir on an adjacent anabranch near Baralaba in the Fitzroy Basin of Central Queensland. Water resource development on the Dawson River at the present time is comparatively limited. There are 6 weirs on the river with a total storage capacity of 39 million cubic metres or, expressed in our earlier measure, 32,000 acre-feet. Water from these storages is already fully committed for mining, stock and domestic purposes, and irrigation. 
The grant by the Australian Government for the 2 weirs will assist the State Government to provide water along the lower reaches of the river. The weirs will have a combined storage capacity of about 11 million cubic metres (9,000 acre-feet), and they are expected to yield an assured annual supply of 6.2 million cubic metres (5,000 acre-feet). After reserving a supply of water for stock, domestic and urban purposes, about 5.8 million cubic metres (4,700 acre-feet) will be allocated from a point about 22 kilometres (14 miles) above the river weir to the junction of the Dawson and Fitzroy rivers, and along the full length of the anabranch. 
A grant of $550,000 was originally offered by the previous Australian Government in November 1972. That offer was accepted by the Queensland Government, but no legislative action had been taken by the time the present Government took office. Early this year the Government reconsidered the case for financial assistance to Queensland for the weirs and re-confirmed the offer of a grant of $550,000. The Queensland Government has accepted the offer. 
Subsequently, however, the Queensland Government advised that, due to unusual geological features which had been discovered at the weir site on the main stream of the river, the estimated cost of the weirs had risen to $1,220,000. The State proposed that it would meet the balance of the cost of the project if the Australian Government would be prepared to endorse the offer it had already made of a grant of $550,000. The Australian Government agreed to this proposal. It is expected that construction will commence in the present financial year and that the weirs will be completed by the end of 1975. 
The project area has a sub-tropical, subhumid climate with a fairly variable summer rainfall. Production and incomes vary considerably from year to year according to seasonal conditions. The main enterprise is beef production and the shortage of winter fodder is the principal factor determining stocking rates, timing of turn-off and limiting intensification of beef production. The provision of water will enable beef producers to overcome this restriction on their activities. It is estimated that the additional water available from the storages could be sufficient for some 1,200 hectares (3,000 acres) although annual acreage could vary considerably depending on the water requirements of the crops that are grown each year. There is a more than adequate supply of suitable soils although, in some instances, the cost to landholders of reticulating water to suitable areas out of flood reach could be considerable. 
There is a wide range of production possibilities and the project will strengthen the basis for commercial agricultural activities and the area will benefit greatly through stability. Crops with sound production possibilities include lucerne for on-farm consumption by cattle or for sale, particularly during dry spells; oats for winter grazing; summer fodder crops; grain sorghum; soy beans; wheat; and safflower. The gross value at farm gate of beef and grain produced under irrigation using water made available from the weirs would probably be in the order of $450,000 annually. When the Government received the revised cost estimates I arranged for the Department of Northern Development to undertake a further economic evaluation. Copies of the report of this investigation are available. Projections of beef and grain sorghum prices used in this evaluation were supplied by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, and there was close consultation between my Department and the Bureau at all stages in the assessment of the economic impact of the project. 
Environmental studies undertaken by the Queensland Government, based on similar irrigation development upstream along the Dawson River, indicate that the Baralaba project will result in a significant improvement in recreational, ecological, economic and general living conditions. The project measures up well to the criteria of this Government in respect of water resource development for agriculture. It is soundly based and will contribute significantly to stabilising production and incomes in an established agricultural area. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Yes. I listened over the communication system to the speech made by the former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  He said that I deliberately misled the House. In a statement I made earlier this year I said that when the Government came to office I immediately called for the Feder.nl evaluation analysis report on the Burdekin River basin, including the Urannah Dam project and I received nothing. I still have not received anything because there is not anything to receive. A technical evaluation of dam sites is quite different from an evaluation analysis. The honourable member for Farrer, of all people, ought to know that an evaluation analysis includes an economic analysis in respect of a project on which any government has to make a decision. There has never been any evaluation analysis in relation to the Burdekin basin. There has never been any evaluation analysis in relation to the Urranah 
Dam project. I have not yet received one because it has not been carried out. A technical study of the hydrology or geology aspects of a dam site is, as the honourable member well knows, far different from an economic evaluation analysis. In this instance there has never been an evaluation analysis. The previous Government did not carry out such an analysis. It still has not been carried out. The previous Government is the one that must take full responsibility for the delay in the development of the Burdekin basin. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the summary of resolutions and recommendations of the twelfth meeting of the Australian Forestry Council held at Brisbane on 8 June 1973. 
I am aware of the controversy and unrest that are in the north regarding this problem of the development of mineral areas in the vicinity of the East Alligator River and the South Alligator River in the Northern Territory. Some of the mineral areas lie within Arnhem Land and some within Aboriginal reserves. Some of the licences lie outside them. Some lie within the proposed national park. Perhaps the 2 most pressing areas for decision relate to Ranger which has leases outside the Aboriginal reserve of Woolwonga and outside the proposed national park and Nabarlek, of course, which is in Arnhem Land so that its licence is inside the Aboriginal reserve. I am conversant with the area. Although I have not been there for some time, I spent a considerable time some years ago in the area. I was working there with a 4-wheel drive vehicle, horses and a full-blood Aboriginal tracker. I know the area and in particular those areas around Magela, Jim Jim, Adder and Deaf Adder Creeks and from memory Tin Camp Creek near Nabarlek. I was working in the area on land classification for cattle. The mineral areas are hungry country and in fact would not feed a billy goat. Most of the Aboriginals in the area live at Oenpelli. I did not see any Aboriginals there myself, with the exception of the fullblood with whom I was working. On the other hand, there was plenty of evidence which showed that Aborigines have lived in the area for a long number of years. There were paintings and I saw graveyards in the mountains. 
The problem of granting licences and mineral leases is one which I can assure the honourable member will receive full consideration from me, but I will not be stampeded into it. I make no apology for the fact that I am biassed, as everybody knows, towards development. I believe in development providing it is soundly based and is common sense development. I make no apology for that. On the other hand I am fully conscious of the rights of others in these areas. I assure the honourable member that I am giving very serious consideration to this problem. It is my intention to make certain recommendations to Cabinet setting out the pros and cons of the matter as I see it and keeping in mind the serious unrest that has developed in the north. Personally I can see no reason why Ranger should not go ahead and provided that the claims of Aborigines are protected with respect to both compensation and rights, I can see no reason also why Nabarlek should not go ahead in those areas with those qualifications. However, I shall be putting  a  submission to Cabinet and Cabinet will decide, taking into account all those considerations. 
I am not aware of the Press reports but if what the honourable member says is correct all I can say is that I completely endorse the criticism of the Country Party. I assure honourable members that I will be looking closely at these remarks and the proposition will be put into effect straight away. 
Of course I agree that the construction of the Monduran Dam and the associated works and weirs on the Kolan and Burnett Rivers are essential for the welfare of the sugar industry in the area. As regards the physical and technical questions, the answer is yes. There is no doubt where anybody would stand on this matter, particularly in an area which over the years has been devastated by recurring droughts. Not only is it essential for the sugar industry but it is essential also to the economic nucleus of the city of Bundaberg and the area around it. On the other hand there is the question of finance, as the former Treasurer well knows. A tremendous number of other proposals are before this Government, as there were before the previous Government. What has disturbed me greatly - it is a pity that the right honourable member's advisers have not briefed him on this as I mentioned the same subject only yesterday to the honourable member for Farrer - is that when the new Government took office I called for the economic evaluation appraisals of these projects but such an evaluation has never been made of the Bundaberg irrigation system. If the honourable member wants to raise this matter I can say that in fact the only statement on evaluation made by the previous government, by an interdepartmental committee, was that the project was totally uneconomic. How do you like that? This Government does not accept that point of view, just as we did not accept the Opposition's decision regarding the Eton project. The Bundaberg project is being thoroughly examined at the present time, as quickly as possible, by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Department of Northern Development, the Snowy Mountains Corporation and Queensland Government departments. It is being done with all haste so that I can put a submission to Cabinet as soon as the appraisal is finished. In answer to the honourable member's question, I agree with him on the need for this project but I am bound by the policy of the Labor Party and the commonsense policy of being able at least to put forward an evaluation analysis. 
The answer briefly is no, I do not agree with  Mr Dunstan,  if he has been reported correctly. The Australian Labor Party has done more for the wine industry, both in Opposition and in Government, than the honourable member's party did. One has only to refer back to the various debates with respect to the wine tax to see the attitude taken by honourable members opposite. As far as the fruit industry is concerned, this Government has done more for it than the Opposition did at any time. 
by leave - The purpose of this statement is to inform honourable members of the outcome of the recent International Sugar Conference which was held in Geneva between 10 September and 13 October under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Honourable members will be aware that the present International Sugar Agreement is due to expire on 3 1 December next. The main objective of the Agreement is to regulate supplies to the so-called 'free market' in order to stabilise prices at levels which will be fair and reasonable to both producers and consumers. The present Agreement entered into force on 1 January 1969 after a long period in which there was virtually no international co-operation in sugar marketing. Prior to its entry into force, world prices were at disaster levels and created major problems for all sugar exporting countries. Most sugar exporting countries are underdeveloped and heavily dependent on sugar for their foreign exchange earnings. Fortunately, Australia does not fall into this category, although an increasing proportion of our sugar harvest is sold on the free market. In 1972, about 75 per cent of our total exports of 2.3 million metric tons was sold on the free market. This proportion will rise even higher in 1975 after the termination of the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement under which Australia supplies 361,000 metric tons annually to Britain. 
It can be fairly claimed that the present International Sugar Agreement worked to the mutual benefit of both exporters and importers. The Agreement is essentially a market management device and over the first 3 years  -  1969 to 1971  -  the discipline of export quotas resulted in a better balance between supply and demand and progressive improvement in prices. Indeed, the average price realised on the London and New York terminal markets over this period closely approximated the price objectives of the Agreement. Since the beginning of 1972, due largely to relative crop failure in a number of major producing countries, the market has been exceptionally buoyant and export quotas have been suspended. In fact, market prices over the period have exceeded the supply commitment price under the Agreement, and to this extent member importers have received the bulk of their sugar at a discount. 
Indeed, this created a major difficulty at the Conference because a number of developing exporting countries argued that these discounts represented, in effect, a subsidy to the major importing countries such as Japan and Canada. These exporters were distinctly reluctant to continue to accept this obligation in its existing form in any new Agreement. On balance, I am in no doubt that the present Agreement has worked to the mutual advantage of member exporting and importing countries. Equally, I am of the view that a new Agreement along similar lines to the present arrangement would have continued to facilitate the co-ordination of sugar marketing policies and the organisation of the world market. Certainly, the objective of the Australian Government at the Conference was to obtain such an Agreement and it was fully supported in its efforts by the Queensland Government and all sectors of the Australian sugar industry. 
The Conference was attended by representatives and observers from some 90 countries and international organisations, reflecting the widespread interest in a new Agreement. The main issues for consideration by the Conference were basic export tonnages and prices. Substantial agreement was reached on a new schedule of basic export tonnages and net export entitlements proposed by the  Chairman  of the Conference,  Mr Ernest  Jones-Parry, who is also the Executive Director of the International Sugar Organisation. It is worth making a special mention of the fact that it was recognised by the Conference that any Australian sugar displaced from the British market after the termination of the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement at 31 December 1974 would be added, ton for ton, to Australia's basic export tonnage which was set at 1,650,000 metric tons-H)r some 550,000 tons above the equivalent figure in the present Agreement. Accordingly, even if the whole of Australia's negotiated price quota of 361,000 tons was displaced from its traditional British market outlet after December 1974, our basic export tonnage would have risen to over 2 million metric tons. 
The other major issue at the Conference was the question of prices, including a supply commitment price at which member exporters are required to offer quantities of sugar to member importers based on the average of shipments to those markets in the 2 preceding years. Naturally, the views of importing and exporting countries on the question of price tend to vary considerably and this was the case in Geneva. A compromise proposal on prices was made by the  Chairman  of the Conference, in consultation with the Secretary-General of UNCTAD, in which he suggested a price range of 5.40 US cents per lb. to 7.90 US cents per lb. and a supply commitment price of 8.90 US cents per lb. These prices compare with the price range in the present Agreement of 3.25 US cents per lb. to 5.25 US cents per lb. and the adjusted supply commitment price of 7.60 US cents per lb. Australia, with the support of a large majority of countries represented at the Conference, accepted the compromise proposals covering both export entitlements and prices advanced by the  Chairman. 
Another area of disagreement concerned the issue of reciprocal rights and obligations of exporters and importers, including questions of supply and purchase commitments. As already noted, some of the developing exporting countries interpret the obligation to offer sugar under certain circumstances to the developed importing countries below prevailing market prices as a form of disguised subsidy. It is undeniably true that large suppliers such as Cuba have forgone considerable foreign exchange earnings over the past 18 months as a result of this obligation and further substantial losses will be incurred if market prices continue at or above present levels. The problem posed for such exporting countries are readily appreciated, but equally - given the basic objective of the Agreement, which is to stabilise prices - it is understandable that importers, whether developed or developing countries, should have the assurance of adequate supplies at fair and reasonable levels. In the event, this was the major issue over which the negotiations broke down. 
We must be concerned that, in an area of agricultural trade of such importance to so many countries, it has not been possible to negotiate an Agreement which would continue the degree of international co-operation in sugar marketing experienced during the past 5 years. It is disappointing that the tangible outcome of the protracted and complex negotiations was an Agreement which has no economic clauses although it will keep in being the International Sugar Organisation. It is proper to ask: What does this mean for the future? In the short term, it will have only a limited effect. The export quota disciplines of the present Agreement have been in suspense for almost 2 years and it is unlikely, given the buoyant market outlook, that quota restraints would have been imposed next year even if a new Agreement with full economic provisions had emerged from the Conference. 
Moreover, the obligation on exporting members to supply sugar to importing members at the supply commitment price, which is presently about 1.9 US cents per lb. below the prevailing free market price, will cease on 31 December next. Accordingly, after that date our industry will be free to enter into contracts based on world market prices. The possible benefits to be derived from this new freedom of action will be limited with respect to returns from the current crop. However, the potential benefits could be important for the returns from the 1974 crop if the present buoyant market continues. 
On the basis of the best expert advice available to me, the market outlook for 1974 is encouraging. However, I am concerned about the possible adverse effects in the longer term if a viable ISA, incorporating effective provisions covering individual country export entitlements and price objectives, cannot soon be renegotiated. Fortunately, the International Sugar Organisation has been authorised to arrange for studies to be made and discussions to be held between members and with nonmembers - notably the European Economic Community - with a view to determining the basis for such an Agreement. It will then be up to the International Sugar Council to recommend to the Secretary-General of UNCTAD a suitable time for convening a new United Nations Sugar Conference for the purpose of negotiating a new Agreement with full economic provisions. I hope that such a conference will be held as soon as possible, certainly no later than in the first half of 1975. 
It is the firm intention of the Australian Government, and myself as the responsible Minister, to continue to work towards an Agreement with effective economic provisions because of the greater stability of prices and predictability of market outlets which such an Agreement offers. I would like to express my gratitude for the unqualified support I received from all members of the Australian delegation at the Conference and I received and welcomed their advice at all stages of the negotiations. The delegation included the Queensland Premier and Minister for Primary Industries, the  Chairman  of the Sugar Board, senior executives of the major industry organisations and of Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Limited, and senior officials from State and Federal Departments. The Australian delegation worked effectively as a team and was constantly approached by others for technical advice and assistance. Honourable members may be assured that the delegation did all within its power to achieve a successful outcome to the negotiations and its efforts were fully recognised by all participants at the Conference. 
That the House take note of the paper. 
This is not so. It was given to the Parliamentary Liaison Officer before lunch. He assured me that it would be distributed immediately after lunch. 
That the debate be adjourned. 
 May I have the indulgence of the House? 
 What the honourable member has said is true; when in Opposition I always wanted the courtesy of receiving statements, and I received them. I am assured by the Parliamentary Liaison Officer that at half past two this afternoon it was given to the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Lynch),  as is the case with all ministerial statements. It is given to his office. That is quite correct. It is not our fault. Obviously there has been a breakdown of communications. I do not think you should argue with me about it- 
I was not aware that that was the practice. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is a pity that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  who has just spoken in the debate, did not confine his remarks to the substance of the Bill. For that matter it is a pity the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  also did not do the same. The involvement of the State and Australian governments and the industry in a weevil eradication campaign has nothing to do with this Bill. This is a research Bill. That has nothing to do with this Bill. 
Yes, it is, but this is a particular, specialised job that was worked out between the Agricultural Council and the industry and has nothing to do with the Bill. However, let me say that it is true that State entomologists have indicated that there is a definite resistance to malathion and there has been a definite build up of the insect population. This is the basis for this campaign. In fact, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has sent a message to State Ministers informing them of the decision of the Government and why the Government will not contribute the $lm which has been requested. The Minister will discuss this matter with the State Ministers at the Agricultural Council meeting next Friday and I have no doubt that he will give the Ministers the reasons for this decision. There are 2 points regarding this matter that I think should be mentioned. State governments, through the bulk handling authorities, traditionally have looked after this matter for a very long time and will continue to look after it for a very long time. The responsibility for weavil control and infestation of grain on the farms is 100 per cent the responsibility of the farmer. Let us not forget, of course, that this does not mean that there will not be efforts made to assist him. However, let us not forget those 2 fundamental aspects of the situation. 
The point of substance with respect to this Bill raised by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who is at the table, and one or two other honourable members is: What would happen if in fact the operative levy were increased above 11c? The machinery of this situation would be that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation would examine the matter and write a report to the Minister for Primary Industry who would examine the recommendation and then take the matter to the GovernorGeneral. If the Governor General agreed to an increase there would be an increase and the Australian Government would match the funds necessary for that increase. So, there is no question about that; the Government will continue to match industry contributions towards the cost of wheat research. This is the machinery of the matter. Of course, it would work in reverse also. If the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation wanted to reduce the operative levy, the same thing would apply but the contribution of the Australian Government would be reduced. Honourable members can appreciate that the Minister for Primary Industry cannot reduce or increase the operative levy unless he has a recommendation from the Wheatgrowers Federation. So, there it is, I think that answers the question. I do not want to take the time of the House any longer. That was the substance of the question and I think that I have answered it. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I might make the point that I did not move the original motion, so  Mr Speaker  was quite right in what he said. I seek leave of the House to move the third reading forthwith. 
The Chinese Government has agreed to purchase very large quantities of sugar from Australia within the provisions of a long term sugar agreement with Australia. The quantities involved will be in the vicinity- 
If the honourable member will listen, I will tell him. The quantities involved will be in the vicinity of 300,000 tons of sugar a year. This amount will be flexible and will depend upon the ability of the Australian sugar industry to supply the quantities of sugar required. For the initial period, the agreement will be of 3 years to 5 years duration, commencing as tentatively agreed on 1 January 1975. I informed the Chinese that because the 1973 crop now being harvested was tightly committed, particularly because of the suspension next year of the economic provisions in the current International Sugar Agreement and also because of the problem of bulk handling facilities in China, it would not be possible for Australia to commence any agreement involving such huge amounts of sugar until 1975. The details of the agreement will be the subject of further discussions between the Australian sugar industry and the Chinese National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation and the Governments of China and Australia. In effect, this means that the actual details of the agreement will be arrived at in the normal commercial way in which Australia and the Chinese Corporation conduct their international dealings in sugar. The agreement by China to purchase these very large quantities of Australian sugar each year, on a long term basis, is the culmination of continued discussions with China initiated by myself during the Prime Minister's visit to China as Leader of the Opposition in July 1971 and subsequently carried on, as well as detailed discussions with China by the Australian sugar industry, through the CSR Company. The decision of the Chinese Government to purchase on a long term basis such large quantities of sugar is a magnificent achievement for Australia. 
Above all, because of the tight organisation of sugar production in Australia the industry must have security of markets. Although in recent years the industry has expanded, it is now in a very vulnerable position, quite different from what it was when practically all the industry's sugar was produced for the home market and the United Kingdom market. Today, 80 per cent of the total production of sugar is for the export market and after the end of next year almost 90 per cent of exports will have to be sold on the free world market. Therefore, the agreement with China will be of tremendous importance to the Australian sugar industry. 
Now everybody- 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I have been grossly misrepresented. A statement of the words used in a press statement by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is in my hands. It is just bad luck for him; I am going to read them out. He stated: 
The proposed sugar sales to China following sub'stantial sales in the last 2 years are very welcome particularly after the failure of  Dr Patterson  and other negotiators in Geneva to secure a continuation of the International Sugar Agreement. 
It was not only my failure but also the failure of the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Minister for Primary industries and the leaders of the sugar industry. This is a contemptuous insult- 
I am explaining it. 
It is a contemptuous insult to the leaders of the sugar industry who were negotiators also. 
I move: 
That the requested amendment be not made. 
The Senate has returned the Meat Export Charge Bill and the Meat Export Charge Collection Bill, which were passed by this House on 19 September, and has requested that clause 6 of the Charge Bill be amended so that the rate of charge on beef and veal is reduced from 1.6c to 1.0c per lb. The Government is not prepared to agree to that request. As far as the Collection Bill is concerned, the Senate has amended it to include provision for a Trust Account to be established into which all funds collected from the charge are to be paid. Hie Government agrees to an amendment to provide for the establishment of a Trust Account and this matter will be discussed immediately after the Senate request on the Charge Bill is completed. 
The Opposition's arguments for a reduction in the charge were based on calculations of their own which showed that the estimated revenue from the charge would exceed estimated costs. During the second reading debate and again in Committee, it was clearly stated by the Government that the proposed charge had been based on the assumption that the estimated revenue from the charge would match estimated expenditure. Despite the Government's assurance of this, the Opposition has not been prepared to accept it. Details of the estimates made to calculate the charge are as follows: 
Firstly, for beef and veal, the charge of 1.6c per lb was obtained by dividing the estimated cost to the Australian Government over the 3 years 1973-74 to 1975-76, of export meat inspection - that is $43m - plus the cost of the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign ($22m) by estimated beef and veal exports over the 33 months period 1 October 1973 to 30 June 1976- that is, 1.8 million tons shipped weight. I stress the words shipped weight'. 
Secondly, for other meats, the charge of 1.0c per lb was obtained by dividing the estimated inspection cost of $14m by the estimated volume of exports of 0.6 million tons shipped weight. 
In the previous debates in both Houses of Parliament, the Government went to some length to explain why the Opposition's figures were incorrect. A statement setting out full details of how the rates of 1.6c per lb and 1.0c per lb were calculated has been prepared and leave is sought to incorporate it in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="086131197311062_81_3.jpg"></graphic>

On the basis of these calculations the expected revenue from the charge on exports will match the estimated cost over the 3-year period. In view of this, the Government is not prepared to accept the Senate's request for an amendment to clause 6. There have been some queries in respect of compensation for tuberculosis reactor stock. The expenditure on the scheme to compensate owners of stock condemned as tuberculosis reactors which was announced on 3 April last is not subject to recoupment under the provivisions of the Meat Export Charge Bill which is before the chamber. The Australian Government's contribution in 1973-74 to the mainland States under this scheme is estimated to be $488,500, subject to the States contributing $244,500. The Government's contribution to compensation funds in the Northern Territory in 1973-74 is estimated to be $562,500. The main point is that as far as compensation for tuberculosis reactor stock is concerned, expenditure is not subject to recoupment under the provisions of this Bill. I point that out because there have been some inquiries about this aspect. 
 I undertake to send a letter to the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  covering two of the points he raised because obviously to answer them will involve some work. Firstly, he seeks an explanation for the difference, and the significance of that difference, between projections made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in relation to future export trends and the figures that have been produced. Obviously this will involve consideration of the assumptions made by the Bureau and assumptions made in the table I have produced as the basis for these estimated costs. The Opposition previously has claimed that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has given 3 projects to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. Is that the one the honourable member was referring to? 
Well, according to the note I have been handed, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has given no projections over that period to the Committee. However, I am not clear on that point. I know that the Bureau does make projections in its beef output statements. 
We will have a look at this point for the honourable member to see what are the assumptions underlying the 2 sets of figures, and we will write to him on the matter. A question was raised about the increase in meat inspection costs particularly during the periods 1968 to 1972 and 1972 to 1975 mentioned by the honourable member for New England. I think the honourable member made the statement that between 1972 and 1975 there was an estimated increase of 400 per cent. 
What the honourable member says, of course, is correct. The major cost over those periods was incurred in fulfilling United States Department of Agriculture requirements, particularly with respect to high standards of veterinary inspection services. No doubt wages and other factors are also contained in this increase. But again I will ask the Department to prepare a note for the honourable member explaining the situation. In regard to overtime payments to meat inspectors, considerable overtime occurs in some works, certainly in the works in the north with which I am associated. Considerable overtime arises because of the uncertainties in the way cattle come in from time to time. However, this overtime has always been the responsibility of the exporters or the works themselves and will continue to be so. It is not included in any way in the recoupment costs. 
As I said earlier, the compensation scheme for tuberculosis reactors is in no way included in this levy. It is completely separate. This is the responsibility of the Australian Government, the States and the industry, contributing in various proportions. As I said a few minutes ago, the Australian Government's contribution under the scheme in 1973-74 to the mainland States is estimated at $488,500, subject to the States contributing $244,500. The Australian Government's contribution to the compensation funds in the Northern Territory in 1973-74 is estimated at $562,500. But the important thing is that the expenditure under this scheme to compensate owners for stock condemned as tuberculosis reactors is not subject to recoupment. I think that is the answer. 
The honourable member for New England asked for some details in relation to these payments. I shall outline them briefly. Funds are made available to the mainland States. They are subject to those States matching at least half the Federal contribution from their own resources or from the existing compensation funds. In respect of the Northern Territory, the Australian Government will contribute the full amount of the compensation paid. Payments will be confined to animals which are tested and then sent for compulsory slaughter. The total funds being provided by the Australian Government are based on estimates by the mainland States and the Northern Territory of the likely number of reactor cattle in 1973-74, with payment to the States set at $50 a head. As the honourable member for New England well knows, Queensland and the Northern Territory have no compensation scheme for beef cattle and of course, action is being taken to put these schemes into effect. 
The Australian Government will provide $100,000 for the campaign in Tasmania. Additional funds being provided for compensation for tuberculosis cattle coupled with the increase in the finance provided for the eradication campaign in 1973-74 should assist in the more rapid eradication of bovine tuberculosis in Australian cattle herds. I think the honourable member for New England will agree that this compensation is very seriously needed because there is an inbuilt fear - it is only human nature - among those who run large herds of cattle under extensive grazing conditions when getting all their cattle tested. I say this reservedly because most of them should not have this fear and perhaps do not have it. However, if a property owner thought that a large percentage of his herd would have positive reaction to the tuberculin test and he would receive no compensation, he perhaps would be inclined not to look at his cattle as closely as he otherwise might have done or to muster as closely as he might do otherwise. The principle of the compensation fund is to encourage the owner to make an effort to find the positive reactor cattle and to get them slaughtered in accordance with the regulations and then attempt to clean out his herds, particularly in those areas which are susceptible. The highest incidence of tuberculosis reactors of course is in northern Australia. It is difficult in many parts of northern Australia to muster clean and to be able to get sufficient muster to have these cattle tested consistently. But I think the Opposition will agree that this compensation fund affords a definite encouragement to the cattle industry to look more intensively to tuberculosis reactors. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the Senate amendments be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following amendments be made - 
In clause 3, insert after the definition of "charge" the following definition: - "'Charge Act' means the Meat Export Charge Act 1973;". 
In clause 3, insert after the definition of "meat" the following definition: - " 'meat inspection services' means services provided by Australia in connexion with the inspection of meat intended for export for human consumption;". 
After clause 7, insert the following clauses: - "7a (1) There are hereby established - 
an account to be known as the Meat Export Charge Trust Account; and 
an account to be known as the Bovine Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Trust Account. "(2) Each of the accounts established by subsection (1) is a Trust Account for the purposes of section 62a of the Audit Act 1901-1969. "7b. (1) There shall be paid into the Meat Export Charge Trust Account - 
where an amount of charge is received in respect of meat to which section 6 of the Charge Act applies - an amount equal to the appropriate fraction of the amount of the charge; 
where an amount of charge is received in respect of meat towhich section 7 of the Charge Act applies - an amount equal to the amount of the charge; 
moneys paid by any person to Australia in respect of meat inspection services: and 
interest from the investment of moneys standing to the credit of that Trust Account. " (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1)(a), the appropriate fraction, in relation to meat, is - 
if the rate of the charge in respect of the meat is 1.6 cents per pound of the meat - five-eighths; or 
if the rate of the charge is a rate prescribed in respect of a class of meat in which the meat is included - the fraction prescribed in respect of that class of meat. " (3) A reference in sub-section (1) to an amount of charge shall be read as including a reference to an amount payable, in accordance with section 7, by way of penalty in relation to an amount of charge. " (4) Amounts payable into the Meat Export Charge Trust Account by virtue of paragraph (l)(a) or (b) are payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly. " 7c. Moneys standing to the credit of the Meat Export Charge Trust Account, may, with the approval of the Minister, be expended - 
in payment of expenses incurred by Australia in connexion with the provision of meat inspection services; and 
to the extent to which any such expenses have been defrayed out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, in reimbursing that fund in respect of the expenses so defrayed. "7d. (1) There shall be paid into the Bovine Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Trust Account - 
where an amount of charge is received in respect of meat to which section 6 of the Charge Act applies - an amount ascertained by subtracting from the amount of the charge the amount payable into the Meat Export Charge Trust Account in respect of the meat under paragraph 7b (1) (a); and 
interest from the investment of moneys standing to the credit of the first-mentioned trust account. "(2) A reference in sub-section (1) to an amount of charge shall be read as including a reference to an amount payable, in accordance with section 7, by way of penalty in relation to an amount of charge. "(3) Amounts payable into the Bovine Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Trust Account by virtue of paragraph (1) (a) are payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly. " 7e. Moneys standing to the credit of the Bovine Brucellosis and Tuberculosis Eradication Trust Account may, with the approval of the Minister, be expended - 
in making payments to the States, and in meeting costs incurred by Australia, for the purpose of the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis in cattle in Australia; and 
to the extent to which any expenses connected with the eradication of bovine brucellosis or tuberculosis in cattle in Australia have been defrayed out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, in reimbursing that fund in respect of the expenses so defrayed. "7f. (1) The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after each 30 June, cause a report of the operation of this Act during the year ended on that date to be laid before each House of the Parliament. "(2) The first report to be laid before each House of the Parliament under this section shall relate to the period commencing on the date of commencement of this Act and ending on 30 June 1974.". 
As stated earlier, the Government is prepared to accept an amendment to this Bill to provide for the establishment of a trust account. However, while accepting the establishment of the trust account for meat inspection, it has been necessary to redraft the Opposition amendment in order to rectify certain deficiencies in that amendment. Furthermore, as the Government has not accepted the Senate's request to amend clause 6 of the Meat Export Charge Bill it has also been necessary to make provision for payment into the trust account of moneys related to eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The amendment passed by the Senate has been redrafted in respect of clauses 3, 4b (a) and 4c (2). 
In respect of clause 3, following advice from the Draftsman, a new definition to cover meat inspection services and related expenses has been substituted for the definition of export meat inspection costs'. The definition given in the Opposition's amendment was not considered by the Draftsman to be adequate. In respect of clauses 4b (a) and 4c (2) redrafting has been necessary for the following reasons: 
Section 4b (a) stated the funds collected from the change were to be paid into the trust account. The correct procedure is for the funds collected from the charge, which are paid into Consoli dated Revenue, to be appropriated from Consolidated Revenue to the trust account. In view of the Opposition's concern that the funds may be used for purposes other than those stated, provision has been made in the amendment for 2 trust accounts - one concerning meat inspection and the other concerning the eradication campaign. The Government's amendment has been drafted so that the part of the charge related to meat inspection will be paid into the Meat Export Charge Trust Account and that part of the charge that is related to the campaign, 0.6c per lb, will be paid into the Eradication Trust Account. 
Section 4c (2) stated that the amounts to be fixed from time to time for the purposes of sections 6 and 7 of the Charge Act shall be determined after consideration of the amounts standing to the credit of the trust account. The Charge Act fixes the maximum and operative rate of charge and the only variation to the charge that can be made is for a lower rate to be struck and prescribed by regulation in respect of a class of meat. The Draftsman has advised that this section of the amendment would be legally meaningless. 
Comments by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  on 24 October indicate that the Opposition would be prepared to accept the charge of .6c per lb if the Government were prepared to establish a trust account to ensure that all moneys were used for the purposes intended. It is assumed therefore that, in the light of the information provided on the estimated revenue and costs, and the fact that the Government has agreed to the establishment of a separate trust account, the Opposition will agree to the passage of the Bills without further delay. 
I am aware of the allegations made by the Leader of the Country Party. 
It is quite clear that once again the Country Party is embarrassed. The primary sector of the economy is perhaps the only major sector which has not been taken over largely by foreign interests. This 
Government will make certain that the primary sector of the Australian economy remains in Australian hands for Australia. 
The criticism was made, of course, by the Leader of the Australian 
Country Party. Not only is this allegation false, it is also stupid. First of all, the Leader of the Country Party does not even understand how sugar is marketed. Sugar is marketed and sold by the CSR Company as the legal agent for the Queensland Government in consultation with the Australian Sugar Board. Now let me answer the substance of the question. Firstly, the CSR Company in its commercial transactions in Hong Kong and Peking has never had any discussions on quantities and price with Chinese authorities for a long-term agreement. Secondly, it is true that the industry has been trying to secure permanent access for sugar to China but without success. Before I went to China the CSR Company, in writing to me, said that the CSR is anxious to do all that it can to enlarge the opportunity for permanent access to China and has welcomed the formal exchanges at government level which have undoubtedly strengthened the trading relationship established at the commercial level. 
In China the Prime Minister and I achieved this access at permanent level. We achieved it for the sugar industry and we achieved it for Australia. Therefore, the criticism by the Leader of the Country Party is not only false; it is also stupid. In fact, the Queensland Government through the Minister for Primary Industry has officially welcomed this move and congratulated this Government. The only person in this country who is trying to throw water on this sale to China is the Leader of the Country Party who is in effect sabotaging the sugar industry and its future efforts in regard to the details of these negotiations. I ask him to stop his sulkiness. 
Take a sweetener. I ask him in all seriousness to stop these contemptuous childish remarks because all he is doing is making it more difficult for the sugar industry to negotiate the details of this agreement at the commercial level and for the Australian Government at the policy level. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim annual report on the activities of the Australian Wool Board for the period July to December 1972. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Australian Wool Commission for the period July to December 1972. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I will tell the honourable member. Sugar, for example, is often stated as being a very valuable energy food, particularly for people who engage in hard physical work, as is well known. It is interesting to note that some of the world's top athletes, cyclists and fooballers chew sugar. If I may I will give the House my own personal experience. When I was young my grandmother had a recipe consisting of rum, sugar and onion juice and it was guaranteed to kill all worms. Looking at the honourable member who asked the question, I should point out that sugar is also reputed to be a cure for baldness. When I was looking up the references on sugar I also found the claim that in actual fact it adds years of life to the virility of men. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Honey Industry Act 1962-1972, I present the tenth annual report of the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with fin'ancial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this short Bill is to secure parliamentary approval of a new agreement between the Australian and State governments on rural reconstruction measures. The new agreement is supplementary to the Rural Reconstruction Agreement 1971 which was authorised by the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1971. Although the 1971 Agreement provided for a scheme which would operate until 30 June 1975, the demand for rural reconstruction assistance in the first year was so great that the previous Government agreed that the funds, originally intended to cover 4 years, could be fully committed during the first 2 years of the scheme, that is by 30 June 1973. As a consequence, new arrangements were necessary if the scheme was to be carried on. 
The scheme, as before, will offer three kinds of assistance: Debt reconstruction to assist the farmer whose long term prospects are sound but whose present debt load is threatening the viability of his undertaking; farm build-up to assist a farmer, whose property is too small to be economic, to purchase additional land to build his farm up to at least an economic size; and rehabilitation assistance to farmers who are obliged to leave the industry. 
In the early stages of the scheme the major demand was for debt reconstruction assistance which accounted for over 85 per cent of applications in the first year of operation. By 1973, however, farm build-up assistance had become the more sought after form of aid. In the last quarter of 1972-73 about 66 per cent of applications were for farm build-up, and the trend is continuing. This development had been expected and indicates that rural reconstruction is beginning to achieve its long term objective in that it is moving away from the palliative measures of debt reconstruction to the more permanent restructuring which should result from farm build-up. 
The 1971 Agreement provided for annual reviews of the operation of the scheme. In accordance with this provision the scheme has been reviewed twice by those Ministers of the Australian and State governments with responsibilities for rural reconstruction. At the first review in early 1972, it became apparent that the very great demand for assistance warranted compressing what had been planned as a 4-year program into 2 years. As a result, the whole of the $100m initially provided for the 4-year scheme, as well as $15m additional funds provided at the review, were fully committed by 30 June 1973. 
At the second review meeting held in March 1973, it was agreed that the scheme had provided invaluable assistance to the rural sector. Although the outlook for primary industries had improved, there was still a real need for continued rural reconstruction assistance, albeit with a different emphasis. It was therefore decided to continue the scheme for a further 3 years until 30 June 1976. However, instead of determining a lump sum to finance reconstruction assistance for the full 3-year period, it was decided that the Australian Government would determine funds annually after consultation with the States and consideration of each State's needs for the forthcoming year. 
For 1973-74, the Australian Government offered to make available $36m, of which $24m would be funded in 1973-74 and the remaining $12m in 1974-75 to finance assistance approved during the closing months of 1973-74. In addition, a supplementary payment of 10 per cent of its base allocation would be made available to any State prepared to match such supplementary funds on a dollar-for-dollar basis from its own resources. The 1973 review meeting also agreed that the 
Australian Government should determine, after consultation with the States, the allocation of rural reconstruction funds to each State and the proportion in which funds should be divided between debt reconstruction assistance and farm-build-up assistance. 
For 1973-74 it was agreed that the allocations to the States should be: New South Wales, $ 11.5m; Victoria, $7 .9m; Queensland, $5.8m; South Australia, $4.3m; Western Australia, $5. 3m and Tasmania SI. 2m. It was also agreed that not more than half of a State's allocation would be devoted to debt reconstruction assistance, unless the prior approval of the Australian Government were obtained to exceed this proportion, and that, the States would adopt as an objective the allocation of at least 70 per cent of total approvals to farm build-up. In order to avoid the situation which has occasionally occurred in the past, of a State committing its full annual allocation before the end of the year for which the money was intended, the States will now program their funds so as to achieve as even a spread as possible over the full 12-month period. The measures contained in this Bill are. real evidence of the Government's recognition that some sectors of the farm community still need assistance to achieve the stability and wellbeing now being enjoyed by the larger proportion of rural producers. I commend the BiO. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BULL (No. 1) 1973-74 In Committee 
Consideration resumed from 8 November (vide page 3077). 
Second Schedule. 
Department of Housing 
Proposed expenditure, $9,149,000. 
Department of Services and Property 
Proposed expenditure, 860,284,000. 
Department of Works 
Proposed expenditure, $104,801,000. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information required by the honourable member has been provided by the Minister for Primary Industry in a letter dated 6 November 1973. 
I am very much aware of the problems in relation to the continued employment of the work force engaged on the Ross River Project and on some other water conservation and irrigation projects, particularly in the Bundaberg area. As the honourable member knows, the situation is under very close examination by various departments, including my own Department, the Department of Northern Development, and by the Snowy Mountains Corporation. I understand that the report is being finalised. As the honourable member knows full well, when that happens a decision will be taken. As I said, I am aware of the employment problems and the honourable member may be assured that the matter is being treated with the urgency it warrants. 
 There is very little difference between what the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  says and what I think. 
No, it is not closing the debate. But in order to do justice to the debate I will answer as quickly as possible the specific questions that are asked. I do not disagree with what the honourable member for Herbert said about the reafforestation scheme at Ingham except in regard to the procedures to be followed. Last July, I think it was, in the company of the honourable member I met many people in the Ingham district. I personally received a deputation from the 2 local authorities concerned and the various development bureaux, and I was impressed by the well documented case that was presented by the officers in the development bureaux. Without having investigated the proposal or knowing the details of it from the Federal point of view I said that it appeared to be a project which deserved priority as a northern development project. 
As I explained to the councils, to the bureaux and to the honourable member for Herbert, and as honourable members opposite well know, our hands are tied unless a request comes from the Queensland Premier supported by the Queensland Government. Up to the present time there has been no request for support, for funds or for any investigation of this project. Under the present system relating to Commonwealth-State finances and procedures, there is nothing I can do about the matter. We have to wait until the Queensland Government submits a proposal. I have alerted the specialists in the various departments who are concerned with reafforestation, and I can assure the honourable member for Herbert that when this case comes down to Canberra it will be given very careful consideration as a northern development project. If it is a sound project within evaluation terms, obviously taking into account the environmental factors, I will have no hesitation in putting it up in the normal way for support. But I impress upon the honourable member that he must get the Queensland Government to put the proposition forward. 
Very well. As regards water conservation, the honourable member for Herbert expressed sentiments about the Burdekin area which incorporates indirectly the Ross River or the supply of water to Townsville, the Urannah scheme and the various catchments in the Burdekin basin, such as the Bowen River. The honourable member knows the history of this matter. I point out that there is more Federal activity going on in that area now than there has been in the past 24 years. The Snowy Mountains Corporation, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Department of Northern Development and various State departments are presently either directly or indirectly working in the area in an attempt to put forward a proposition for the systematic development of the area which will benefit not only the Burdekin area but also the people of Townsville. The proposal for the Urannah scheme which the honourable member mentioned has been submitted, I think, for quite a number of years. But no evaluation has ever been done by Federal authorities and there are available no figures on which one could prepare a case. This matter is being investigated. The same is true of the Burdekin project and the Bundaberg project which is partly in the electorate of my friend the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen);  these projects have to be evaluated. 
The honourable member for Herbert also mentioned the resources in the great Burdekin basin. Of course, there are tremendous resources of land and water and other natural resources. I suppose I can say with some bias that if Captain Cook had landed, or if Governor Phillip had established his settlement in the Burdekin area instead of in Sydney, we would have had a different pattern of development and settlement in Australia today. Millions of people would have been settled in that area because of the resources of water and soil, and the climate. They are factors which are important in settling a new area. I can assure the honourable member for Herbert that I have no difference with him regarding the point he raises. I again suggest that in respect of the Ingham reafforestation proposal he should get the Queensland Government to put forward the proposition so that it can be considered quickly by the Federal Government. Unless the Queensland Premier puts it forward and it is supported by the Queensland Government, I am afraid that there is nothing I can do about that project. 
 As with the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  I have no disagreement with what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has said.  His  comments have been constructive. I know that he has a deep interest in many of the problems of northern Australia. That interest has been achieved from a first hand investigation and study of many of the problems. The honourable member knows as well as others do of the difficulties of development of those areas and in particular of many of the projects which originated from proposals which he has advanced. I repeat that I welcome the constructive arguments that he has put up. 
But I would like to comment briefly on the usual destructive arguments put up by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  I do not know what it is about me that causes him to go completely overboard - to lose his calm. As described by me and by others last week, he puts on an amazing performance. I am not concerned very much about whether he criticises me but I am concerned about the criticism of officers of the Public Service and especially officers of my own Department. 
If the honourable member reads Hansard tomorrow he will find that he did. 
That is true; they have no opportunity to reply. This is something that honourable members should not do. They should not take advantage of their office deliberately to attack public servants who cannot reply. Let me say this: The head of my 
Department is a man of excellent reputation. Ironically, he is the same person whom the Leader of the Australian Country Party, when he was a Minister, congratulated for his work over the years in his position as Deputy Secretary of the Department of Trade. That just shows the hypocrisy of the right honourable gentleman. I do not intend to waste time even answering his comments about the Bowen basin and the Pilbara. The objectives of these investigations are there to be read. He can read them if he wants to. It is hoped that the joint Commonwealth-Western Australia feasibility study of the development of the Pilbara will be in our hands next year. 
I wish to comment again on the statements by the Leader of the Country Party about sugar. He has again mentioned China. It seems to me that he just cannot take it. Surely he must be aware that on Friday I met for  6i  hours with the industry and explained in as much detail as it wanted the basis for the formulation of a long term agreement involving the sale of at least 300,000 tons of sugar over 5 years. Surely he must be aware of the fact that the industry issued an official Press statement welcoming the initiative I have taken in allowing this to be done. Surely he is aware that the industry asked me to secure permanent access for Australian sugar to China. Is he not aware that for some years the industry had been trying to do that without success? Of course he is aware of it. The same thing applies to the bulk handling of sugar. 
The Leader of the Country Party made 2 statements that have to be challenged. Firsly, he said that Australia sells four times as much sugar to the United States of America as it will sell to China. 
No, he said four times. That is completely wrong. We sell approximately 200,000 tons or a little over 200,000 tons to the United States of America. We shall sell at least 300,000 tons to China. He then went on to say that we sell ten times as much sugar to Japan as we will sell to China. That would mean that we sell 3 million tons a year to Japan. We sell approximately 600,000 tons to Japan, which is twice as much as we will sell to China. So the Leader of the Country Party was completely and utterly wrong in those points that he made. I will say no more about him, other than that I think that if the Leader of the Country Party had offered the constructive advice - perhaps criticism in some respects - of the honourable member for Herbert and the honourable member for Mackellar, the level of this debate would have been much higher. I have no doubt that the Leader of the Country Party is aware that some of the honourable members who sit behind him are openly disgusted with his attitude towards the sale of sugar to China. 
I do not intend to enter into an acrimonious debate about the origins of the beef roads scheme. This is fully documented. Nor will I in any way be drawn into criticising  Sir Charles  Adermann for whom I have always had the highest respect.  Sir Charles  was the Minister for Primary Industry when the second beef roads proposal was put forward. As the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  probably knows, I think it was in 1946 under the Chifley Government that the first beef roads scheme was put into operation, principally for the Channel country. However, it was under  Sir Charles  Adermann as the Minister in charge that the beef roads scheme as we know it was launched. The beef roads scheme was based on a tremendous amount of work. For example, from 1947 to 1960, countless investigations were conducted throughout the Kimberleys, the Northern Territory, the Gulf country and the Cape York Peninsula. Practically every cattle station in relation to land classification was studied. Various proposals were put up regarding the movement of beef by air and consideration was given to whether the air beef scheme in operation in Western Australia should be expanded. We considered whether a railway line should be built from Dajarra to Birdum, across the Barkly Tableland. However, all the evidence pointed to the fact that the best way to move cattle in the future would be on wheels. A series of submissions was made to a Permanent Heads Committee in 1960, further investigations were carried out and various Cabinet submissions were written. I think that I know the story better than do most people. In regard to the continuation of the scheme, I have nothing to say other than that I fully support what the honourable member for the Northern Territory has said. I believe it is one of the Commonwealth's schemes that has proved itself beyond doubt to be of major significance in the development of northern Australia, opening up the country not only for the cattle industry but also allowing more and more people to go into those areas. 
The point made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory regarding the port of Darwin is noted. As he well knows, there are a lot of problems with respect to this port, but this matter is being examined by a fairly active committee. The last point mentioned by the honourable member related to the Darwin power supply. This situation certainly is very critical at present. He suggested that I have not taken any action, but I can assure the honourable member that I have taken action. I have asked the head of my Department to give it the highest priority with the Department of Works to try to overcome the problem which exists. We have even had investigated the possibility of an oil rig in the harbour generating power for the Darwin area, but the rig generates direct current whereas the commercial transmission is alternating indirect current. It is also being suggested to me that perhaps we should divert a battleship or even a submarine to the area to generate sufficient power for Darwin. I can assure the honourable member that this is being given very serious consideration. We are working around the clock to try to overcome the problem. A Swedish engineer is in Darwin. He has all the resources at his disposal that we can give him. It appears that the problem is due to the collapse of bearings and certainly, as the honourable member has said, there are boiler problems as well. But the problem is being looked at seriously and I assure the honourable member that although I have not received his letter, I can do no more than I am doing at present. If he or anybody else has any suggestion of how suddenly to overcome the problem which has arisen, whereby a major part of the supply of power to Darwin will be cut off because of the collapse of this unit, I can assure them that I will look at it very seriously. 
I have even investigated this afternoon the possibility of using top experts from the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation who I thought perhaps could help because they have a tremendous knowledge of matters relating to power. However, this is a mechanical problem and one which we must solve in terms of ancillary power units. We are looking at the various resources of the Navy to see whether the Navy can supply equipment by transporting it quickly from Navy land depots. We are looking at the possibility of closing off or minimising some of the drains on the power by, say, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, Radio Australia and such operations. However, I can assure the honourable member that this matter is being given every consideration. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has mentioned water conservation. I remember him speaking about Julius Dam, but I did not quite hear another place he mentioned. He did not mention Three Moon Creek? 
It is a fact that the present Government provided finance to the Queensland Government for its part in developing Julius Dam, and it is true that the present Government has laid down somewhat better terms and conditions for the repayment of the loan. Some months ago in the presence of the Commissioner for Water Supply and Irrigation,  Mr Haigh,  and senior officers of my Department I met members of the Mount Isa Council and discussed with them various proposals that had been made. As the honourable member said, it certainly will be a burden on the people of Mount Isa if they have to pay back the full cost of the provision of water - capital works and reticulation costs - because of the peculiar problems associated with the deficiencies of water in that area. This matter is being looked at. I asked the Mount Isa Council - I am under the impression it is doing it - to put forward a further case to justify its claims. There is very much competition for the finance available for water conservation projects throughout Australia. It is my impression that the Mount Isa Council is collecting information to put forward a further case, through the Queensland Government, to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for further assistance for the provision of water which will minimise or alleviate the repayment problems of the people living in Mount Isa. The Mount Isa mining company also has contributed substantially to this scheme. 
The Monduran Dam project at Bundaberg, of course, has been going on for some years. It is one which a number of honourable members have repeatedly raised with me. It is within the electorate of the honourable member for Capricornia, the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  but part of it eventually will also be in the electorate of the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen). 
Yes. The Bundaberg scheme has been designed to minimise the effects of drought in an area which over a long period of years has suffered from recurring droughts with monotonous regularity. The cumulative loss of income over the years which has been sustained directly on the production of sugar and cattle production, and indirectly from the multiplier effects of that loss, is very large. 
I think that the honourable member for Kennedy should have given us a few more facts. The delay in making a decision on this project is due to 2 facts. It is true that the previous Government helped this project by providing finance. But it is also true that the interdepartmental committee which considered this project judged it to be totally uneconomic, the same as it did with the Eton irrigation project, without any investigation. This Government refused to accept that conclusion without an investigation. The premise on which the previous decision was taken that the project was uneconomic was that if there is a drought in . Bundaberg the deficit could be made up by a surplus above peak production in some other part of the cane growing areas of Queensland. As is well known today, in the last few years in particular we have wanted every stick of sugar cane harvested. We have reached the stage where we have not sufficient sugar to satisfy the world market at the present time. 
It is a very tight market. Consequently the premise, in judging the Bundaberg irrigation scheme to be uneconomic, is in fact incorrect. One of the first things this Government did after assuming office was to negate that decision. 
We have not any figures to substantiate my hypothesis that it is a good project. The honourable member for Wide Bay, the honourable member for Kennedy, the Minister for Health and I all think that it is an excellent proposition. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has been one of the most trenchent critics of governments over the years for mak. ing decisions which have not been backed at least by investigation into the ' economics of such decisions. This Government, in its policy speech before the last election, made it clear that in all these types of projects there would be evaluations. One of the first things I did at the change of Government was to call for an evaluation of the Bundaberg proposition. I knew that this project was in trouble. 
Wait a minute. We are dealing with the Bundaberg proposal. There was no evaluation. I can assure the honourable member for Kennedy that this evaluation is going ahead at full speed. The resources of my Department, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the State departments concerned are investigating, as a matter of priority, the Bundaberg irrigation project. We must have an evaluation first. I think that I have answered the honourable member's remarks about road construction in answer to 2 previous speakers. Road construction in the north is one of the most progressive and constructive investment propositions that any national government can undertake. This investment has more than proved itself in terms of the economic benefits that have been derived by the national Government from time to time and also from a regional point of view. As the honourable member for Kennedy knows full well, the economics of the phosphate rock deposits project are being investigated by the Broken Hill South company. Those concerned with the project are looking at it very closely. One of the problems is to transport phosphate in a slurry form or some other form, by a pipeline or some other method of transport, to market it in an economic fashion. 
The honourable member's point regarding the pensioners I will bring to the notice of the 
Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  The honourable member well knows that it has been brought to the Minister's attention many many times not only by honourable members on the other side of the chamber but also by honourable members on this side. We appreciate the very high costs involved in freight, and also the higher cost of living. One of the problems of the pensioner who lives in Borrooloola or Burketown or somewhere else in the north is that he or she is faced with a considerable increase in the cost of living in buying essential goods as compared with people who live in other parts of Australia. But again this matter will be brought to the attention of the appropriate Minister. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Owing to the difficulty in defining 'community halls' and the work involved in researching this question, my Department has provided me with the following approximate figures for financial assistance given for community halls in each of the three years. 
You had better take some sugar, I think. It is becoming more and more apparent as the balance sheets of some of the major wool companies are coming to hand that there are increasingly large profits being made by these companies. Of course, these are the companies that are selling wool at auction on commission on behalf of growers and which are selling wool properties and other commodities associated with livestock production in Australia. But in order to put a cloud over and to try to hide the profits that they are making, at the same time as they make such an announcement they deliver at every opportunity a criticism of the Government for reducing the incomes of primary producers. This,, of course, is the paradox with which we are faced - that we have the companies on the one hand making more and more profits and, on the other hand and at the same time, trying to hide, the extent of these profits from the wool growers themselves. This is typical of the hypocrisy of some of these major companies that are in fact attempting to ridicule the Government at the same time as they are making higher and higher profits for themselves. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Wool Deficiency Payments Act 1971- 72, I present the report of the operations of the Act during the year ended 30 June 1973. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is assumed that the question relates to a statutory authority compulsorily acquiring, and being solely responsible for the marketing of Australian apple and pear exports. 
All Australian States grow apples and pears and all engage in varying degrees in export The economics of the apple and pear growing industry would vary greatly as between States and the indications are that there would not be any unanimity of view of the industry that the proposal would be economically advantageous to the industry viewed as a whole. 
I recently announced the Government's decision to establish an Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to replace the present Australian Apple and Pear Board. 
The present board has no trading powers and an important difference between it and the new Corporation will be that the Corporation will have power to engage in trading. 
See answer to (1) above. &lt;3) The question involves matters of Government policy and also raises constitutional issues of some complexity. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is expected that construction will be completed by 30 April 1974 if there are no further work stoppages. 
During the 1971-72 season 304,890 bales were handled. In 1972-73, 298,228 bales were handled. 
Estimates provided to me indicate that 400,320 bales are expected to be handled in 1973-74. Estimates for 1974-75 and 1975-76 are not yet available. The 
Australian Wool Corporation and Wool Brokers are presently conducting a survey to arrive at an estimate of receipts for the next five years. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislation enabling the Australian Government to make a non-repayable grant of up to $5m to the Queensland Government to assist in the construction of the Kinchant Dam near Mirani in North Queensland. The Kinchant Dam will provide the main water storage for the Eton irrigation project, a scheme which will stabilise sugar production in an area highly susceptible to drought. It will also provide for future expansion of sugar production in line with market opportunities. Water will also be made available for intensive beef production on improved tropical pastures and the storage will be of considerable value to the local communities and tourists for recreational purposes. 
The total cost of the project was estimated in February 1973 at $10.15m. The balance of the cost of the project will be financed by the Queensland Government. The project as a whole will comprise: Mirani Weir on the Pioneer River, with a storage capacity of 2.5 million cubic metres (2,000 acre feet) and estimated to cost $868,000; a pump station of 6.4 cubic metres per second (225 cusec capacity located adjacent to the weir, and an open diversion channel 5.25 kilometres (3.25 miles) long to convey water by gravity to the main storage, estimated to cost $955,000; Kinchant Dam on the north branch of Sandy Creek, with a storage capacity of 48.1 million cubic metres (39,000 acre feet), and estimated to cost $5,047,000; and irrigation and ancillary works comprising two main channels, distribution channels to farms, four pumping stations and associated distribution systems and drainage works, estimated to cost $3,280,000. 
The Kinchant Dam will be located in a proven and established agricultural region with significant scope for increased efficient production. The region has been plagued, however, by recurring droughts and the absence of conserved water has seriously limited stability and growth. Fluctuating production seriously affects not only farm incomes but also the efficiency of operations of sugar mills in the area, especially the North Eton sugar mill. The proposed scheme will enable cane growers to stabilise production and to meet additional over-peak allocations. Unit milling costs would consequently be reduced and additional 'benefits to growers can be expected through the distribution of increased mill profits from the co-operative mills of North Eton, Marian and Racecourse. In the first stage of development of the project, water will be supplied to sugar cane growers on 137 cane assignments totalling some 5,100 hectares (12,600 acres) and to beef producers on 890 hectares (2,200 acres). The second stage will enable an expansion of irrigated cane on a further 3,140 hectares (7,550 acres) of assigned land. 
An economic evaluation of the project has been carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. This evaluation examined the impact of the project from the national, regional and the individual farmers' viewpoints and the report on the project comments favourably on all aspects of its economic impact. The evaluation was based on conservative estimates of long-term sugar prices. For example, on the basis of a conservative longterm price estimate of 55 sterling c.i.f. London per long ton and sugar yields averaging 4.9 tons per acre, the return to capital was calculated at about 8 per cent per annum. On the other hand, based on an average London Daily Price over the past 18 months of about 85 sterling, the return would rise to about 14 per cent per annum, while at present world prices of around 100 sterling, the return to capital would be about 17 per cent per annum. It is estimated that annual additional sugar production arising from the initial development will be about 17,300 tonnes (17,000 tons) valued, on the basis of the average level of returns for the past three seasons, at between $1.7m and $2.0m. It is estimated that, at full development, the total additional sugar production from the scheme will be about 46,100 tonnes (45,350 tons) per year, valued at $4.6m to $5.4m, again on the basis of the average level of returns for the past three seasons.This would rise to almost $7m based on the current level of world prices. 
The Eton project will significantly improve social and economic conditions in the area. The Bureau's regional analysis showed improvement over the national results; indeed it identified considerable regional monetary- and non-monetary benefits. In addition to stabilis- ing farm and mill peaks, employment opportunities will be created in connection with the capital works and farm and mill activities. The projected annual value of these benefits will be nearly Sim under stage 1 and about $1.5m at full development. The evaluation also showed that the project area would derive substantial net benefits. The project will be a major factor in helping to stabilise incomes in this established area. It is in the long-term national interest to underwrite our sugar marketing commitments by means of stable production levels. Our irrigated cane fields - and in this respect I would also mention the Burdekin delta - are among the most productive in the world, and the Eton project will assure an annual supply of at least 75,000 to 80,000 tonnes of sugar for export. The environmental study reported favourably on the proposed scheme. It is anticipated that no animal or plant pest species is likely to be introduced or that water quality in the Pioneer River is likely to be impaired. In addition, the storage created by Kinchant Dam will provide a facility for aquatic sports and recreation, and will encourage tourism. 
This Government is committed to a program of continuing support for soundly-based water conservation projects in established and proven areas. The Eton project, for which Kinchant Dam will be the main storage, will fully meet these requirements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian dairy industry is very diverse, encompassing as it does wholemilk, manufacturing and condensery sectors. It embraces many organisations whose membership goes beyond State borders. These include the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and the Federal Dairy Council. 
The information is not available to the Department in the detail sought by the honourable member. I have arranged for an approach to the two bodies concerned and will pass on to him whatever information they provide. 
I have taken the honourable member's interest to be in producer representation on statutory dairy industry bodies. Whilst I do not have details of the position in the six States, there are two such bodies under Commonwealth legislation, namely, the Australian Dairy Produce Board and the Dairying Research Committee. Producer membership of these bodies is decided by the Minister from among persons whose names have been submitted to him by the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation or by another relevant organisation of dairy farmers. The producer members are appointed to represent the dairy farmers of Australia and not as representatives of a particular organisation. Of the three producer representatives of the Australian Dairy Produce Board two were appointed on the nomination of the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and one on the nomination of the Federal Dairy Council. Of the four producer representatives on the Dairying Research Committee the three members representing dairy farmers engaged in the production of wholemilk for use in the manufacture of dairy products were appointed on the nomination of the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation. The member representing dairy fanners engaged in the production of wholemilk for human consumption was appointed on the nomination of the Milk Producers' Association of Australia and New Zealand and the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On  25  October  1973  I issued a Press release giving details of the Government's decision to establish an Australian Apple and Pear Corporation and stating that legislation for its establishment would be introduced in the present session. The Corporation will be established along the lines discussed with and agreed to by the Australian Apple and Pear Growers' Association. 
The general intention is that a levy to finance the Corporation should apply to all apples and pears produced and sold. The most appropriate method of collection is presently under study. In the meantime the charge imposed on exports of apples and pears under the Apple and Pear Export Charges Act  1938- 1968  will be continued to finance the immediate needs of the Corporation. 
Yes. It is envisaged that the Corporation will be engaging in important activities in the research and promotion fields related to processed apples and pears. 
Second International Airport in New South Wales  (Question No. 1151) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose a charge on honey exports to provide necessary additional finance for the operations of the Australian Honey Board. The Australian Honey Board was established under the Honey Industry Act 1962 for the general purposes of regulating the export of honey and engaging in promotional activities on the domestic and overseas markets. The Board's operations are presently financed by levies imposed on domestic sales of honey and on honey used in the production of other goods. Exports of honey which normally account for some 40 per cent of Australian production were exempted from levy when the legislation was introduced in 1962 because of the very depressed state of the export market at that time. 
Since 1962 the Board's operational costs and requirements for promotional funds have risen along with the general cost increases that have occurred. Periodic increases in the rate of levy have been made to meet this situation, but there is an increasing reluctance on the part of the industry to increase the present levy on domestic honey sales. In March 1973 the Board felt it was appropriate in light of the prevailing bouyant market conditions that the export sector should contribute to financing the Board's operations. It recommended that a charge be imposed on honey exports at a maximum rate of1c per kg and that the operative rate should be a minimum of 0.3c per kg. 
Following its recommendation the Board sought the endorsement of the main honey industry organisations which indicated their general support. The matter was subsequently discussed at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in August last and there was general acceptance of the need for a charge on the export of honey. The Bill gives effect to the industry proposal. It provides for an initial operative rate of charge of 0.3c per kg which may be varied by regulation, on the recommendation of the Australian Honey Board, to any level within a maximum rate of lc per kg. The Government believes that the Honey Board must receive greater financial support if it is to function properly in the future and as there has been a very buoyant market over the last 2 years, in principle, the export trade should now make a contribution to financing the Board's operations. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion of  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, which is complementary to the Honey Export Charge Bill 1973, is to provide the machinery necessary for the collection of the export charge imposed by the Honey Export Charge Bill 1973. The Bill provides for the charge to be payable by the exporter of the honey within 28 days after the end of the month in which the honey is exported. The remaining provisions of the Bill are principally related to the administrative procedures necessary to collect the charge. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend th Honey Industry Act 1962-1972 to provide that amounts equivalent to the amounts of charge received under the Honey Export Charge Collection Bill 1973 shall be paid to the Australian Honey Board out of Consolidated Revenue. This amendment is conse quential to the Honey Export Charge Bill 1973, the purpose of which is to provide additional revenue for the Australian Honey Board. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ian  Robinson) adjourned. 
The Government is deeply concerned at the breakdowns of various power plants in the Northern Territory - the No. 3 and No. 5 sets and the boiler trouble with No. 4 set. Every possible move has been taken to try to alleviate the sufferings of the thousands of people in Darwin, particularly the elderly people and those with young families who are suffering most. But up to the present it has been physically impossible to find a solution to the problem in Darwin. We have combed Australia - and for that matter most parts of the world - to try to secure a plant for installation in Darwin to alleviate the problem immediately. This has proved to be an impossibility. However, we have located a plant of approximately 10 megawatts in Tasmania. Approval was immediately given by the Treasurer to spend $l.lm to purchase and move this plant from Tasmania to Darwin. That is in the process of being organised. 
However, this action will not solve the immediate problem in Darwin because it will take time to move this plant from Tasmania to Darwin. The action of the Government has at least ensured that in the event of any further breakdowns this plant will be available in Darwin. I know that with regard to the immediate problem the honourable member and the people of the Northern Territory do not want sympathy; they want action. As 1 have said over the last 2 weeks, if anybody can suggest what can be done to solve the problem we will do it. However the problem has been impossible to solve, as the honourable member well knows. The latest information I have this morning is that the No. 3 set is still out of action but should be repaired by the end of next week with a spare part, dispatched from Sweden, which should arrive in Darwin tomorrow, 23 November. It will take several days, of course, to install. The No. 5 set was commissioned, I think only in February of last year at a cost of approximately $5m. 4 top level investigation is proceeding to ascertain why it has broken down. After all, these sets have been proven throughout the world. Not only is an inquiry being conducted by the Department, but also the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory has taken steps to establish the facts. I have instructed my Department that I want to know the facts, whether it is the fault of the machine or the Administration. This has to be flushed out into the open. 
This is very important to the people of the Northern Territory, even if it is not important to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Apparently he does not think it is important because he has the benefit of a grid in Melbourne. The situation which has arisen has shown the vulnerability of Darwin and other cities and towns throughout Australia that are not connected with a grid system. What I will be suggesting to various Ministers of the Government is the possibility of having in Australia at least one, or more than one, stand-by power plant that can be put into action when disasters like this occur again. 
One of the most remarkable aspects of the speeches made by members of the Opposition - the Country Party and the Liberal Party - is that in their condemnation of quotas, in (heir condemnation of ministerial direction, in their condemnation of the formula in the current Wheat Stabilisation Act they forget that it was their Government which introduced this legislation into the Parliament over the years. 
I think that that remark need not be answered. 
You handled it better? 
Let me analyse that type of statement. You introduced quotas. You were the ones who handled it over the years, not we.  "  Mr Corbett  - We did not force ' credit sales of wheat. 
Your Government stopped the full owner-operator allowances, depreciation allowances, interest on land, as well as interest on capital. Your Government stopped that, not this Government. So be a bit careful when you interject. I did not introduce this Bill. It was introduced by my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I intend to dwell on some of the comments that have been made. The honourable member for New England, the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  said, in criticising the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  that the industry had always stood on its own feet. That is really quite a remarkable statement because, after all, the whole principle of stabilisation is to stabilise incomes through prices and to minimise ups and downs, and trying to achieve a stable income for producers through a stable price. There have been serious ups and downs, as has been said. In this current stabilisation scheme something like $129m has been contributed by the taxpayers. Since 1960 it has totalled $285m. In this year the surplus contributed to credit - one might say by the wheat growers - will be an estimated $46m. It is fair to say that in the first 10 years, and I have said this many times in defence of the wheat industry, it has contributed heavily, virtually subsidising the taxpayers of Australia to the tune of $390m. When one takes into account the relationship of the domestic price to the guaranteed price and the world price since the wheat stabilisation scheme was introduced, it is perhaps not true to say that the taxpayers of Australia have subsidised the wheat industry. I accept that, but the point 1 am making is that there have been serious ups and downs, and this is in fact the whole reason for stabilisation. This is where I part company with the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who, from the impression I got, was opposed to stabilisation. If he casts his mind back to approximately 4 years ago - most of his comments today were trenchant criticism of quotas - he did not make any criticism of quotas at that time when it was extremely difficult to sell surplus wheat. After all, it was the industry and the States which agreed on quotas. The Australian Government has no power to impose quotas. That is entirely the responsibility of the States, except in the case of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern 
Territory. What the Australian Government can do, through the' first advance payment and the total liability, is'. in effect to fix a quota. It does that indirectly. Let us at least get the facts straight. 
One matter on which I take issue with the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party is that he said that in the present proposal there is no provision for an increase in the home consumption price of wheat, whereas previously there was provision to grant an increase in the home consumption price of wheat by making a variation in the movement of cash costs. This is not true, because clause 9 of the Bill provides that the home consumption price can be adjusted by the Minister from 1 December, taking into account the movements in these cash costs, which are prices, wages, interest charges and transport, handling and storage charges,' etc. Provision is made for those costs. Reference is also made to them in, I think, clauses 2 and 27 of the present Bill, although I could be wrong in relation to the numbers of the clauses. Certainly it is not true to say that the domestic price of wheat will not be varied by changes in cash costs; they will. Of course, it is true to say that the domestic price of wheat will not be varied by increases in the movement of total costs, which include the. owneroperated allowance, depreciation, interest charges on land, interest charges on structures and interest charges on plant. I remind the honourable member for Darling Downs that it was his Government that took out that provision, not this Government. 
I did agree with it, and so did the honourable member's Leader and everybody else in this House, and I will explain why. 
I will look at the honourable member's speech. He did not vote. If I remember rightly - I will look at the record - he walked out; he did not vote. Is that not right? 
The honourable member showed his disgust in that way, but he should have voted. Let me explain to the honourable member for Darling Downs why honourable members supported the proposal not to increase the guaranteed price and the domestic price of wheat Dy variations in the movement of total costs;- One of the greatest problems in measuring . the costs of production of wheat was, firstly, that one had to put an imputed figure on the value of land. At times when there was.. an increase in the domestic price of wheat, when the economy was good in terms of . wheat production, the value of land increased; and interest charges increased. It was like the dog chasing its tail all the time. It was an extremely difficult concept; it was a concept which in the end the industry agreed was a fictitious one. It had no relationship to the world market price of wheat and it had no real relationship to the guaranteed price. 
Somebody once said that if you took a figure out of the telephone book you could get the average yield. In other words, one could vary the cost of production by whatever yield only wanted to take. If you took 19, 20 or 21 bushels, who could say which was the true yield to take? Nobody could say what the true yield was. In other words, the cost of production figure became a political plaything. This was accepted by the industry, by the previous Government and by the then Opposition. The best way to overcome this problem was to be realistic and, in fact, to take the actual cash costs that the farmer had to pay and vary those costs by movements in the measurement of price relatives and by an index. That movement in the indices showed an increase or a decrease in the cash costs. 
One might say that that does not take into account the owner-operator allowance. That is true, it does not take that into account, but it is the relative figure, not the absolute figure. If those cash costs move by 3 per cent or 4 per cent, that percentage is applied to the increase or decrease in the domestic price of wheat. I believe, and the industry believes, that this is the best method. It is not a foolproof method, but at least it is a method which I think illustrates a fair adjustment in the movement up or down in the actual costs paid. If one is going to put interest on the value of land, what does one take as the value of land? What interest rate do you charge today? Is it 10 per cent or 1 1 per cent or 4 per cent? All I am illustrating are the difficulties involved in this matter and the criticism which has been levelled at the wheat industry over the years. In the end it was the industry that accepted this; it realised the difficulties involved. 
I want to deal now with .the section in the parent Act which refers to directions given by the Minister. It would seem from the criticism levelled at the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  that it was this Government that introduced that particular section into the Act. The facts are that the Labor Government introduced into the Wheat Stabilisation Act of 1948 a section which provided that the Board may, subject to any directions of the Minister, do certain things. At the time members of the present Opposition considered that that was not clear. In 1954 the then Leader of the Country Party,  Mr McEwen  - in actual fact, I think that  Sir Philip  McBride introduced the Bill, but certainly  Mr McEwen  was Minister for Commerce and Agriculture - proposed an amendment which made it quite clear what the authority of the Minister was to intervene on certain things. I will read what  Sir Philip  McBride said in his second reading speech. He stated: 
Honourable members will note that there is a provision in the Bill which will enable the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture - 
That was before the Department of Commerce and Agriculture was divided into the Department of Primary Industry and Department of Trade -  to issue directions to the Australian Wheat Board on wheat-selling policy, if that should prove necessary at any time. It is far from the Government's intention that this should open the way to government interference in the wheat-selling operations of the Board, but it will be obvious to honourable members, and it has in fact been clearly stated to the Wheat Growers Federation, that as the Australian Government assumes the financial responsibility of guaranteeing the plan from public revenue then, in the interests of the taxpayers generally - 
This was the former leader of the Country Party- 
It was written by  Mr McEwen. 
The honourable member knows as well as I do that if I introduce a second reading speech concerning primary industry, they are not my words but the words of the Minister for Primary Industry.  Sir Philip  McBride was representing the Minister for Commerce and Agriculture. Let us not quibble about that and say that  Mr McEwen  did not say it. The honourable member knows full well that  Mr McEwen  did say it. They were his Department's words, and he okayed them. The quote continues:  it  cannot be indifferent, for instance, to the price at which the Board may be willing to sell wheat at some particular time or to some particular market. 
That is the section of the Act which is in question. That amendment was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government - not by this Government - to give a clear meaning to the Act in order to allow the then Minister for Commerce and Agriculture to intervene in policies concerning wheat trade when he thought it necessarily to do so. 
There has been lengthy discussion concerning intervention as regards Egypt. As I understand the position - and what I have heard today has not changed my view - it was extremely difficult to sell wheat at the time. It was at a time when the Chinese market temporarily folded up. There was this 3-year arrangement with Egypt. 
As to quantity, but if the honourable member recollects what happened at the time, the terms were for 3 years. When this Government came into office it adopted the policy that, as regards developing countries we have an obligation to try to help them. We realise that they have balance of payments difficulties, and we believe that there ought to be credit sales for up to 12 months. This was accepted by the Wheat Board and it was conveyed to the Egyptian Government. When hostilities broke out between the Arab States and Israel the Board reversed its decision. It wanted cash. 
It did make a decision to reverse it. If the honourable member wants proof of that I will show him the relevant letters. The policy of the Government was to adopt an even-handed approach in that conflict. It was then that the Minister for Primary Industry informed the Wheat Board of the Government's decision. Let us get the facts straight because some misleading statements have been made. Agreement was reached approximately 2 weeks ago between the Egyptian Government and the Wheat Board on the sale of one million tonnes to be shipped next calendar year. Under the terms of the sale there is to be a period of 18 months credit with the Board carrying 25 per cent of the credit risk, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation being responsible for $10m, and the Government covering the balance under the national interest provisions of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act. When the  Chairman  of the Wheat Board announced this agreement he said the wheat would cost in excess of$130m on an f.o.b. basis. Let us at least stick to the facts. The decision of the Government and the intervention of the Minister for Primary Industry was a responsible decision in terms of foreign policy and in terms of this Government's policy in relation to developing countries. 
I just want to refer in passing to the sugar industry in order to reply to the honourable member for New England, the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, who said that the groundwork in relation to wheat sales was really done by the Wheat Board. I will not argue against that. The Minister for Overseas Trade has made the position quite clear. However, I join issue on the claim by the honourable member that this also applied to the sugar agreement. I do not want to carry on a debate on sugar, but let us at least stick to the facts. First of all I did not intervene in anything. I was asked by the sugar industry before I went to China to do 3 things. Firstly, I was asked to secure, if I could, permanent access for Australian sugar. The industry had been trying to do this for some time but it had failed. Secondly, I was asked to try to get the Chinese Government to upgrade its bulk handling facilities. 
The third thing I was asked to do was to get a team of Chinese experts to come to Australia to study bulk receiving facilities. I achieved those 3 things for the industry. Let me quote from an official Press statement issued by the industry. It reads: 
As a result of the Peking discussions with  Dr Patterson,  the Chinese Government had agreed to pro- o vide long-term access for Australian sugar. 
The sugar industry representatives told  Dr Patterson  that they welcomed the initiative he had taken with the Chinese Government which had achieved the basis for long-term access to the Chinese market for Australian sugar. This achievement has now set the stage for the negotiation of detailed terms of an agreement and related commercial contracts. 
That is what the industry had to say. I have always - and I do so again - paid a tribute to the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd for the pioneering work it has done in the last 2 years on aspects of our trade with China, particularly with respect to bulk handling facilities. I gave credit to that company when I was in China too. 
At no stage did it talk about long term agreements. At no stage did it talk about quantities at all. If the honourable member wants to check up on this he should ask the sugar industry itself. I will say no more about this matter. One of the doubts raised by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  was about what happened to the money which would be retained in the Fund. Clause 12 of the Bill seeks to amend section 32 of the Act by providing that money in the Fund at 30 September 1974 will go forward as credit into any new stabilisation fund. This is what the industry wants. This is what it suggested in its proposal for a new stabilisation scheme. However, if there is no stabilisation scheme the money will be refunded or returned to the industry under the provisions of section 32 of the Act. This is set out in the Bill. 
Practically all the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  were an attack on the quota system. Certainly there are grave deficiencies in that system. It is one thing to talk about them now. But why was not this trenchant criticism levelled by the honourable member at a time when there was a great surplus of wheat and when the Australian Government was charged with the liability of meeting the first advance payment? No Australian Government, including the Government that represented Australia for 24 years, or this Government would agree to an open ended liability, that is, having a first advance payment without a liability as far as the ceiling was concerned. No government would do that, and that is why the quotas were introduced. We could have had double the production if we had wanted it. But we would not have got $1.10 a bushel or whatever the amount was for the first advance payment; it would have been much less than that. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 7- by leave-taken together, and agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 7a. 
The Government rejects the amendment. Again, I will have to answer certain statements that have been made. In my earlier reply, I gave the reasons why the Australian Government had adopted an even handed approach between the Arab States and Israel. These reasons were made quite public by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in a Press statement released on 30 October 1973. Let me read from that Press statement. It states: 
When fighting broke out, the Board reversed its earlier decision- 
As somebody said, it welshed on the decision to which it had already agreed and of which it had notified the Egyptian Government. I return to the Press statement: 
When fighting broke out, the Board reversed its earlier decision and indicated to the Government that any business transacted with Egypt would need to be on a cass basis. The Board also indicated that if the Government wishes credit terms extended to Egypt, then the costs and risk in full should be borne by the Government. 
The Minister had replied to the Board that the Australian Government's attitude to the hostilities was that it should have an even handed approach to both sides and should show preference to neither. To agree to the Wheat Board's changed negotiating position with Egypt would have been inconsistent with this neutral approach, the Minister said. 
The provision in the Act which the amendment seeks to change was first introduced in 1948. The previous Government took the view that that section was not explicit enough and in fact made a further amendment to it. As was stated quite clearly by  Sir Philip  McBride on behalf of  Mr McEwen,  as he then was, that amendment was made to protect the taxpayer. To illustrate the point further, as I mentioned earlier, since 1960 a total of &lt;$285m has been paid by the Government to the wheat industry for stabilisation scheme purposes. As I made it quite clear, the industry also has contributed its share, almost $400m in the first 10 years of the scheme, as the difference between the domestic price, the guaranteed price and the world price. This year, the industry will contribute about $46m. As these tremendous amounts of money, which could mean very large contributions and liability by the Government, are involved this Government insists, just as the previous Government did, that this section should remain as it is in the Act. For that reason the Government rejects the amendment. 
 Let me make the position clear. The honourable member for the Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  obviously has principles different from those that the Government has, and I would think also different from those that the Australian Wheat Board has. What he said is true. A contract with Egypt was not signed. But it is a question of the way in which the honourable member thinks contracts should be made. The Wheat Board agreed to supply wheat to Egypt for 12 months, and that decision was conveyed to the Egyptian Government. 
That may be the honourable member's way of making contracts. If his word is not as good as anyone else's so that a contract must be signed, I do not know how he will get on in life. It is rather remarkable that there should be criticism that we are interfering with industry. Honourable members opposite say: 'Do not interfere with industry'. Apparently they believe that industry should have a free hand in matters of trade, but they ask the Government to make sure that it pays a first advance to wheat growers. Are they prepared to give the first advance away? Of course they are not. They want Government interference for a first advance. 
Does the honourable member not want wheat quotas? It was his Government that applied quotas. Now he says: 'Do not interfere with the industry'. The most efficiently organised primary industry today is the sugar industry, which is rigidly controlled. Would the honourable member tell  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to take the quotas off sugar? Of course he would not. If he did, he would not last 2 minutes in that State, because it has been proved - the same argument applies to tobacco - that with commonsense and co-operation between a government and an industry you will get good results. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr  Sinclair's amendment) be inserted. 
 I accept the comments made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  However, I think he would agree that if there were a violently fluctuating domestic price in the stabilisation scheme - say, if the present domestic price were $3 a bushel - there would be serious political repercussions among the people who consume most if not all wheat sold for Australian home consumption. They are predominantly the lower and middle income groups who consume bread, meat and poultry foods. I do not disagree with the principle. In fact it has been shown time and again that the difference between the domestic price and the world price is a significant factor in proving one way or another who subsidises what. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Schedule. 
 As honourable members will be aware, the continuation of the wheat industry stabilisation arrangements requires that the States pass complementary legislation. Following discussions between the Parliamentary Counsel's office and the State counterparts, it has been agreed that certain minor amendments should be introduced to the 
Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1973 to overcome objections raised by the States: I move: 

<graphic href="087131197311222_61_5.jpg"></graphic>

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The matter is being examined. 
I do not know of the particular article. As the magazine is a reput able one, if this article carried an attack on the Australian Country Party I would assume that it was justifiable criticism. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees, that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is a matter of Government policy as to how decisions on various matters will be reached. At the time of the revaluation decisions, the implications for rural producers were fully taken into account and announcements were made as to the forms of adjustment assistance that would be available to those adversely affected by the decisions. 
It is quite obvious that the majority decision of rank and file wool growers made in the recent referendum or.  the question of the embargo on the export of merino rams and semen to countries other than New Zealand was a serious rebuff for the Australian Country Party. The lesson to be learned by the Country Party is this: Its members should pay more attention to the rank and file wool grower than to the large, rich vested interests of wool growing concerns and the large stud breeders. The point has consistently been made that the .Australian Wool Industry Conference is the parliament of the wool growers. This is the second occasion now on a highly controversial issue when the decision of the AWIC has been reversed by the rank and file wool growers. The first occasion concerned the reserve price plan. I think that the Country Party would argue that because fewer than SO per cent voted it is not true representation. But anybody who has a look at the facts behind this issue will see that the Country Party can thank its lucky stars that the others did not vote, because if they were supporters of the Country Party they would have been there in droves to have a shot at this Government. If they had voted it would have made an even greater majority in favour of the embargo. 
It will be interesting to hear what the Country Party will say now. If its members are consistent they should issue a Press statement saying that the great majority of those who supported the embargo are nothing but hillbillies and galahs. That is what the Country Party members called us. Yet the rank and file wool growers have completely overthrown the Country Party policy and have supported the Australian Labor Party on this matter. The Government respects these hillbillies, as honourable members opposite may call them. It respects their decision and it will enforce the embargo, which has been Labor Party policy for so many years. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Australian Government's decision to amend the statutory marketing arrangements for the apple and pear industry by establishing an Australian Apple and Pear Corporation which will replace the present Australian Apple and Pear Board. As many honourable members are aware, the apple and pear industry has for some seasons now been facing problems of increasing seriousness and complexity, mainly in the export field. These problems derive principally from the large volume of exports which the industry has traditionally sent to markets in the United Kingdom and Europe. Because of developments in these markets the export operation is characterised by increasing uncertainty. These developments include the effects of British entry into the European Economic Community, the increasing competition in this region from European fruit, and the increasing competition from other exporting countries supplying the British and European markets. 
The general uncertainty created by these developments is aggravated by difficulties in the field of shipping chiefly the high and increasing level of freight rates to the 'United Kingdom and Europe and the difficulty of finding adequate shipping for the purpose. The latter is most acute in regard to conventional refrigerated shipping. Although all States have some interest in export, the position is most serious for Tasmania, because of its heavy dependence on the export trade and on the 
United Kingdom and Europe to take the bulk of its apple exports, and because of its dependence on conventional shipping. The position also presents significant problems for Western Australia, the second largest apple exporting State, and for Victoria because of its large pear exports. These export problems have had their impact at the grower level in a feeling of general insecurity and low farm incomes in important producing regions, particularly in Tasmania. 
It is against this general background of critical industry problems that this Bill is introduced. It must be recognised that proper solutions to these problems will only be achieved with the acceptance by the industry at large of the need to restructure on a broad front. Such restructuring of the industry must be directed towards tailoring production, in respect of both quantity and quality, to the needs of remunerative outlets; to adaptability in introducing the most economic techniques and practices designed to reduce costs; and, most importantly, to the consolidation of viable farm units. Allied with the need for the restructuring of the industry on a broad front is also the need for the industry to have a highly skilled, effective and nationallyorganised body that can come to grips with the marketing problems that beset the industry. I believe that the Corporation will supply this latter need and that its operations, hand in hand with the industry's own restructuring efforts, will place the industry once more on a sound economic foundation. 
I now turn to the details of the Bill. The Corporation will consist of 9 part-time members, namely, an independent Chairman, 4 members to represent growers, one member to represent the Australian Government, and 3 other members. All the members of the Corporation will be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry. The members representing growers will be selected from nominations submitted by the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association and the 'three other members' referred to in the Bill, which I might term 'members with special qualifications', will be appointed after consultation with that Association, the Australian Apple and Pear Shippers Association, and any other appropriate bodies. 
It will be important for the most effective functioning of the Corporation that its members generally be soundly qualified and, in particular, that the 3 members with special qualifications bring to the Corporation the widest possible backgrounds consistent with the range of functions that the Corporation has to perform. For this reason these members will be people specially qualified for appointment by reason of their experience and expertise in marketing generally, or in the marketing of apples and pears, the processing and marketing of apple and pear products or by reason of other experience in commerce, finance, economics, science and industrial matters. 
I should mention that I have used the term marketing' in the context of these qualifications as covering all aspects involved from the time the fruit leaves the property until it reaches the final consumer. The position of  Chairman  will also be of major importance. The qualities demanded will be a capacity for leadership and broad commercial experience, not necessarily confined to the apple and pear industry. All members will be appointed for a period of 3 years, and will be eligible for re-appointment. 
The functions of the Corporation are set out in clause 6 of the Bill. These functions include the control of the export from Australia of fresh apples and pears and the Corporation has been given, in clauses 7 to 9, powers appropriate to the performance of these functions. These include, the power to recommend to the Minister the terms and conditions of export; the persons who may engage in export; packaging and labelling for export and quality standards and grading for export. It also has power to determine quantities for export by State and country of destination, and to negotiate shipping arrangements. 
For the performance of its other stated functions, the Corporation has been empowered to promote or engage in research; to promote by financial assistance and otherwise new apple or pear products; to act as agent for producers or exporters; to appoint agents or arrange for the performance of work on its behalf; with the approval of the Minister to enter into agreements with a State and to trade in fresh apples and pears and in apple and pear products. 
For its trading operations, the Corporation is empowered to charter ships and, under clause 30 of the Bill, to borrow moneys subject to the approval of the Minister and the Treasurer. The Corporation's borrowings may be guaranteed by the Australian Government. The power to trade will be a significant power available to the Corporation in a major task confronting it, namely, the development of new markets. The element of risk connected with the development of new markets is often too great to present attractions to private exporters. The Corporation's trading power is qualified by a requirement that it must seek the approval of the Minister to engage in trade in competition with Australian concerns and must conduct any such trade in a manner that accords with commercial practice. 
There is also expressed in clause 7 (3) of the Bill a general requirement that the Corporation must comply with any directions given it by the Minister with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. This power of direction over the Corporation is a power which would only be drawn on in unusual circumstances. It might need to be used, for example, to restrain activity by the Corporation if such activity is having serious and undesirable repercussions in important areas outside the cognizance of the Corporation. 
There are certain fields of activity, apart from trading and the regulation of fresh fruit exports, in which the Corporation is expected to play a prominent role. A major role is seen for it in the field of research and an expanded role in the field of sales promotion of apples and pears or products derived from these fruits, not only overseas but also in Australia. The Corporation's research role will be to encourage and if necessary to initiate research into all aspects of the industry including quality improvement; cost saving practices and techniques at all stages of the productionmarketing chain; packaging; handling; storage; transport; the control and eradication of pests and diseases; the development and marketing of new processed products for apples and pears and the provision of technical advice in the processing field. The research role envisaged for the Corporation in the development of new processed products is of particular significance. The Corporation is specifically empowered to assist financially and in other ways in this important activity. I believe that there is considerable potential in this field. 
The promotion role contemplated for the Corporation is of equal importance. To encourage the increased consumption of apples and pears and apple and pear products throughout Australia requires an imaginative and well co-ordinated promotion program. 
The Corporation will be ideally placed to achieve this. At the same time the Corporation will be giving constant attention to overseas promotion. This is particularly significant in the light of the pressing need to which I have referred earlier, to find alternative export outlets to the traditional markets. 
It is also envisaged that the Corporation, for the effective carrying out of its functions, will maintain an efficient marketing research and intelligence unit. The Bill proposes that there should be available for the immediate financing of the Corporation the moneys collected under the Apple and Pear Export Charges Act 1938-1973, which is presently the source of the income of the Australian Apple and Pear Board. This is intended as an interim measure only to meet the immediate establishment needs of the Corporation. 
A levy on all apples and pears produced and sold is considered to be the appropriate permanent form of Corporation financing, since the Corporation can be expected to produce benefits for all sectors of the industry. 
The Government currently has under study, in consultation with the industry, the most practicable method of imposing and collecting such a levy and will he submitting measures to the Parliament for adoption in the near future. The Government fully appreciates the need to establish the Corporation on a firm financial footing as quickly as possible. 
The Corporation proposals have been developed in discussions with the Australian Apple and Pear Growers' Association and are supported by the Association. As I stated earlier, I believe the proposals constitute an important step towards alleviating many of the difficulties that currently beset the industry, particularly its export sector. The Corporation will provide the industry with a marketing instrument directed by persons with the necessary skills and expertise in the broad field of marketing. It will be armed with appropriate and adequate powers and, accordingly, should be capable of tackling effectively the industry's problems on a co-ordinated national basis. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to introduce amendments to the Apple and Pear Stabilization Act 1971-1972. The amendments are necessary as a consequence of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Bill 19.3 which I have just introduced. The Act contains references to the Australian Apple and Pear Board and the Apple and Pear Organization Act 1938-1971. The Bill substitutes the Corporation and the Act establishing the Corporation for these references. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to introduce amendments to the Apple and Pear Export Charges Act 1938-1968. The amendments are necessary as a consequence of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Bill 1973 which I have just introduced. The Bill substitutes the Corporation for the Australian Apple and Pear Board where referred to throughout the Act, and continues in force regulations made under the Act which were operative immediately before this proposed amendment. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to introduce amendments to the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Act 1971. The amendments are necessary as a consequence of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Bill 1973, which I have just introduced. The Bill substitutes the Corporation for the Australian Apple and Pear Board where referred to throughout the Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this short Bill is to obtain Parliamentary approval for the agreement entered into by the Australian and State Governments on 24 November 1973 to extend the Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme for a further 12 months to 30 June 1974. The Scheme, which commenced on 14 July 1972, provides assistance, supplementary to the main Rural Reconstruction Scheme, to meet some of the special needs of the horticultural industry. Financial assistance is provided under the Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme for the removal of surplus fruit trees. This assistance is available only to those orchardists who are experiencing, or are threatened by financial difficulties. A subsidiary benefit of the Scheme to the industry is that the removal of surplus trees has helped to bring the industry's productive capacity into closer alignment with the market for its products. 
The Scheme offers two forms of assistance: Clear fell, for the grower who is predominantly a horticulturist, who is in severe financial difficulties, and who wishes to remove all his fruit trees and leave the horticultural industry; and partial removal, for the grower whose property would become viable if some or all of the fruit trees were removed, and the land put to an alternative use, but, who lacks the financial resources to withstand in the short term the effect of the removal of the trees. The Scheme was announced on 14 July 1972 and was to have operated for one year. The closing date for applications was 30 June 1973 and trees were to have been removed no later than 31 October 1973. The setting up of the necessary administrative machinery caused a delay in getting the Scheme under way. Most of the growers who might have taken immediate advantage of this Scheme had incurred spraying, pruning and fertiliser expenses for the 1972-73 crops before the State administering authorities were in a position to accept applications. 
As a result, the early response to the Scheme was less than had been expected. When it was reviewed in March 1973 by the Ministers of the Australian and State Governments who were concerned with the Scheme, it was agreed that in some sections of the horticultural industry there was still a need for the kind of assistance provided by the Scheme. The Ministers concluded that the Scheme should be extended for a further 12 months and this view was accepted by the Australian Government. Since the initial response to the Scheme had been slow, ample funds were still available from the original $4.6m allotted by the Australian Government for the operation of the Scheme. Thus no additional funds have to be allocated for its extension. Originally, the Scheme was confined to producers of canning peaches and pears and fresh apples and pears. Under the terms of the Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Agreement it was, however, open to any State to seek approval for the extension of the Scheme to other varieties of fruit. This was, in fact, done early in 1973 when canning apricots were included at the request of New South Wales. 
Since the Scheme is designed to assist horticulturists who are in financial difficulties, the Australian Government has taken the view that no useful purpose would be served by allowing growers, after the extension of the shceme was announced, to withdraw applications, take one more crop off their trees and then re-apply for assistance. It was considered that such a course of action was likely to aggravate a grower's financial problems. The States concurred with this view and the supplemental agreement therefore provides that where an application had been submitted before 1 July 1973, the trees concerned should be removed by the original deadline; that is, 31 October 1973. An application from a grower who failed to meet this deadline would automatically lapse. The Government recognised, however, that there can be situations where a grower's failure to remove trees by the deadline may be due to circumstances outside his control. For this reason, the supplemental agreement gives the State authorities necessary flexibility in administering this provision. The amendment of the agreement has also provided an opportunity to correct an inconsistency between the prescribed average rate of assistance for the removal of fresh apple and pear trees and the rate applicable to canning fruit. The average assistance for fresh fruit which a State must not exceed has been increased from $200 to $250 per acre. This amendment applies as from the date of commencement of the Scheme; that is, 14 July 1972. 
Industries which have experienced problems of the dimensions of those confronting the canned deciduous fruit and the apple and pear industries obviously need help to regain stability. The Government's recognition of the needs of these industries is implicit in other measures which have been taken. These include the emergency adjustment assistance payments to growers following the December 1972 revaluation of the Australian dollar; the subsequent provision of $1.5m in additional assistance to export canneries; the proposed establishment of the Apple and Pear Corporation; and the operation of the apple and pear stabilization scheme. The continuation of the Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme is another component of the Government's broad program for the reconstruction of Australia's horticultural industries. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The Bill before the House makes provision for further moneys to be made available for rural reconstruction, whether it be assistance for debts, the building up of farms or rehabilitation. I do not intend to cover the ground that honourable members who have spoken in the debate have covered. I wish merely to comment on a few of the points that they have made. First I wish to comment on the plea of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  for eligibility of primary producers for social service benefits. To the best of my knowledge under the terms of the Act they are eligible for social services. To prove my point I refer the honourable member to 1966 or 1967 - or perhaps both years - when many, many producers in my electorate received social service payments, or unemployment benefits. I am aware of this as I made representations on their behalf. The Government at that time took a considerable amount of convincing that the primary producers were entitled to it, and they received the assistance. I refer specifically to the Gin Gin, Wallaville, Brightly, Mia Mia and Septimus areas which were stricken by drought. Those cane farmers received social service payments at that time. 
No, they were not broke. They had farms and assets, but they were affected by drought and they had no income. They had no crops and were unable to obtain a job. In other words they were available for work in terms of the Act. I might suggest to the honourable member for Darling Downs that he follow up those examples that I have given and he will find that what I have said is correct. In times of national disaster when primary producers are seriously affected by drought the precedent is there. I can refer him to my electorate and to the sugar producers of whom a large number received social service payments and I can furnish him with the details if he wishes. 
A further point I wish to make relates to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  I believe that he made 2 principal points. One was the philosophical point regarding reconstruction and whether in effect funds which amount to something like $137m have been advanced up to the present time and whether they have been used as constructively and wisely as possible in terms of the problems facing the adjustment of primary production. I agree with a lot that the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party said and I believe that simply making provision for funds within the 3 categories provided may not be placing sufficient emphasis on the problems of rehabilitation and re-adjustment. 
However, one must remember that when the reconstruction scheme was introduced the primary producer was in a much different economic position from his situation today. The debt structure was extremely serious. In fact, if wool prices had remained at their low level goodness knows what would have happened to the economy of the country generally, let alone to the financial position of those in the rural sector. I believe that I am correct in saying that the Department of Primary Industry is looking very carefully at this situation and if additional funds are to be made available virtually as a continuing provision, more serious thought will need to be given to the direction in which these funds are made in terms of achieving continual re-adjustment in the rural sector and particularly to take more account of market forces, as has been emphasised by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt). 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party referred to the plight of war service land settlers. I do not disagree with anything that he said. When I was in Opposition I used to say virtually the same things as he said tonight. This scheme is a major problem. When it was first proposed after the War certain criteria were established for soldier settlement blocks. Unfortunately, because of a number of factors, many soldier settlers will never really make a viable living on those blocks. This situation must be faced. My colleague, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  has raised this issue from time to time also. 
We must give more serious thought to the philosophy behind rural reconstruction. Where are we heading? I do not think that every year handouts should be provided for farm build-up, rehabilitation and reconstruction purposes. Perhaps, more thought should be given to rehabilitation. Are we to perpetuate the operations of small dairy farmers in northern New South Wales and southern Queensland? Are we to keep their farms operating or are we to make a conscientious attempt to rehabilitate them? The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  quoted figures which show that the average age of people on farms is increasing. The drift of country people to the cities is becoming a problem. All those factors must be examined. But I have no doubt that the Minister for Primary Industry, the Department of Primary Industry and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics are well aware of the current position, particularly in a time &gt;)f relative prosperity. These are the times when, I believe, it is much easier to introduce these types of proposals. 
The second point that I wish to make is with respect to the criticism by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party regarding the availability of money. The inference he drew was that insufficient money is being put into this scheme. He questioned whether the proposed allocation of $24m was additional to the $18m already provided. He indicated that it was not. I inform the House that the $24m that is to be made available through this legislation will be additional to the $18m already granted. In fact, funds provided for rural reconstruction in the 1973-74 Budget total $47.2m. Of that amount $5. 2m was committed by the States in 1972-73 but was not paid to them before the end of that financial year. The Commonwealth has undertaken to provide $18m in 1973- 74 to fund approvals given by the States during the closing months of 1972-73. The amount of $24m is being made available to meet new approvals. It is, in fact, additional to the $18m. There will be an allocation of $12m during the closing months of 1973-74 and those funds will be made available in 1974- 75. It is not true to say that sufficient money is not available. 1 am advised that n fact the funds provided for 1973-74 are of the same order as those provided for 1971-72 and 1972-73, although some adjustments were made. So, the criticism by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party is not valid. Principally, the $24m is additional to the $18m. 
Those are the main points that I wish to make. I assure honourable members that the Government fully supports the principles of reconstruction or whatever they might like to call it - readjustment, farm build-up, rehabilitation, alleviation of debt structure, or anything else. Basically they are the principles of adjustment and reconstruction. The present Government fully supports this scheme and intends to continue it. I am quite certain, as I said initially, that there will be a lot of discussion between State and Australian Government authorities with respect to getting the best and maximum benefits from the amount of money expended as time goes on. The allocation of funds for purposes such as the provision of long term loans, rehabilitation finance and assistance to primary producers is fundamental to achieving continuous readjustment. 
Nothing in primary industry is static. One cannot foretell what will happen on the export market. More than 90 per cent of our wool production is sold on the export market; so it is highly vulnerable. Let us say that Australia's annual wheat production is approximately SOO million bushels. A proportion of that wheat crop - say, 70 million bushels - is used for home consumption. It is sold on the domestic market. The balance of the wheat we produce is sold on the export market. More than half of our beef production is sold on the export market. Eighty per cent of our sugar production is sold on the export market. After the end of next year, 95 per cent of our sugar exports will be sold on the world free market. When our main primary industries must rely, for a large measure of their returns, on sales on the export market, a degree of vulnerability exists. An effective reconstruction program is needed in such circumstances to meet the problems of adjustment that occur. This is a good Bill. I assure the House that the Government is conscious of. the need for progressive and continuous reconstruction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Honey Export Charge Collection Bill and the Honey Industry Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- The purpose of the Bill is to enable the export sector of the honey industry to contribute its share towards expenses associated with honey production and honey marketing. Previously this contribution came principally from levies on domestic sales. Now, of course, under this legislation it will come also from the export sector. I am pleased that all honourable members on both sides agree with this legislation and agree with the Australian Honey Board and the Australian Agricultural Council. I agree that it is difficult to assess the market situation. World prices for honey are very high at the present time. The points made by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keeffe)  are noted. Of course, it will be principally the export buyers in the future who will determine the level of world prices. 
The points made by the various members regarding the export incentives are noted. All I can say is that I am aware that the Australian Honey Board has expressed its concern that it may lose export incentives. This is under consideration by the Government at the present time. I am amazed by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  I do not think there is any industry that is not in the electorate of Darling Downs. I was not aware that the honourable member had such a viable honey industry in his electorate. Even one of the chief executives of the Australian Honey Board lives there. Of course, as the honourable member says, he is a member of the Australian Country Party. There seems to be everything in Darling Downs including the member, of course. I am even told that the Country Party is experimenting with the crossing of bees with fireflies to produce some type of a breed that will work at night as the honourable member for Darling Downs does. Darling Downs is a peculiar electorate. As a matter of fact it must be unique among electorates in Australia. It has everything. 
That is a matter of opinion, of course. Certainly it is in the premier State of Australia and I suppose we must say something on its behalf. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The honourable member would well know that the rust problem in wheat and in other crops has occupied the minds of research workers all over the world for many years. This problem has a high priority in research work today in the physical sciences. The honourable member said that the possible losses through rust this year in the wheat industry would be $ 1,000m. I do not know where the honourable member obtained that figure- 
I thought that the honourable member said $ 1,000m which, if he did say that, is the estimated value of the total crop for the whole year. 
That would perhaps be right. The estimate may be 10 per cent, if it is as high as that. From the estimates that I have seen I do not think the figure will be so high as that. I have no other comment to make about the matter except to say that this Government is, as the former Government was, fully aware of the problem of rust. A body of research workers in Australia and throughout the world are concentrating not only on the genetic properties of wheat itself but also on the varieties of wheat in an endeavour to overcome the problems of rust. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960-1968, I present the seventh annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973. An interim report of the Committee was presented to the House on 19 September 1973. 
This matter of public importance is just one more attempt by the Opposition to continue its barrage of criticism of the Government, attempting to blame the Government for almost anything it can find or remember. It is an example of humbug. 
The honourable member is about the biggest humbug in the Opposition. The prime motive of the Opposition is to attempt to influence a few voters in the forthcoming referendum against the Government's wish to have the same powers as are possessed by every other national government to control the economy and to control the financial sector - powers over prices and incomes. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  introduced this matter. One must marvel at the inconsistency of the Country Party. Most of his speech was a condemnation of the implementation of price control. But only about 2 weeks ago the leader of the Country Party in Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  threatened to introduce price control with respect to petrol and bread if the manufacturers did not do something about their threatened increase in prices. Here we have on the one hand the Federal Leader of the Country Party condemning price control and on the other hand the leader of the Country Party in Queensland threatening to implement price control. 
The Opposition continues to attempt to blame the Government for inflation, rising costs and now a shortage of goods and services. The forces of inflation and rising costs and the forces that brought about the current day shortages were bred in the days of the previous Government. Anyone would think from listening to the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who has just resumed his seat, that when this Government came to power it inherited a sound economy, an economy which was in good shape. What it inherited was a sick and staggering economy, policies of stop and go. 
'Not a chance', says the honourable member. The voters of Australia delivered the verdict. Somebody told me that the honourable member has quite a number of people opposing him for pre-selection and they must also be looking very seriously at his performance in this field. 
Let us have a look at the record. Let us have a look at a few facts with respect to one of the arms of criticism of costs and prices. Let us have a look at the period from 1949 to 1972 when the Liberal and Country parties were in Government. The official figures show that the actual price of materials, services and wages in that period rose by over 250 per cent. What did the previous Government do to prevent increases in prices? Nothing. What did it do? 
It did nothing. Perhaps there is a greater degree of shortages today than there was. I do not dispute that. But let us look at what happened a few years ago in the farming sector which the Country Party represents. We had protest marches by farmers in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. There was no shortage of goods then because they did not have the money to buy the goods. Of course, the Country Party has been dedicated to a policy of wiping out the small farmer through its subsidy policy. Most of these subsidies have gone to the richer farmers, and the best example of that is the dairy industry. In this period something like $500m to $600m went into Victoria, to those farmers who did not need it. Northern New South Wales and southern Queensland, where the demand needs to be generated, is where some of that money should have gone to help reconstruct industries. 
There is a shortage of goods; that is not denied. There is even a shortage, for example, of farm products and the capital goods that are needed to increase productivity. Let us look at the basic reason for the excess demand. Let us look at the volume of money in Australia today compared with a couple of years ago. Let us look at the forces behind this excess demand in the beef, wool, wheat, sugar and coarse grain industries - the major primary industries in general, with a few exceptions in the fruit industry. They are at record levels of production. There are record levels of value in terms of the export income earned or the value of production, going into the pockets of farmers. Let us look at one of the factors causing this excess demand. Let us take the wheat industry. The latest figures show that the estimated value of production this year is over $l,000m. The average of the last 3 years has been about $400m. So on top of this volume of money that is in Australia today an extra $600m will be pumped into the economy - into the wheat industry. 
Let us take a minor crop like sorghum. An increase of something like 546m will be pumped into the economy this year. Taking the total value of crops, it is estimated that an increase of something like $800m has been pumped into the economy in the last 2 years. Taking the total value of rural production, it is estimated that an increase of more than $ 1,000m will be added to the economy. Of course, this does not suit the Country Party. What do the Liberal and Country parties want? Here are the 2 basic premises. They want low wages. Apparently they want low prices for primary products. They want a measure of unemployment. Then there will be plenty of goods. In the depression days there was no shortage of goods, 'but nobody had the money to buy them. There was no shortage of goods 3 or 4 years ago when world prices for primary products were down. But people did not have the money in their pockets to buy the goods. 
The official figures show a major increase in the volume of money in the last 18 months. A major problem in the next 12 months also will be how to slow down the velocity of money in this country in terms of its volume and rate. But what do the Liberal and Country parties want? Do they want to have low wages, unemployment, low prices and no shortage of goods or do they want what the Australian Labor Party wants - good wages, reasonable profits, reasonable prices, so that the consumer and the producer are satisfied? There may be periodic shortages of goods in this country - there must be if the factors of full employment and growth suddenly cause a record inflow of income into the producing and consuming sectors. This is in fact what has happened. It is quite true, as we on this side of the House have said, that there is a growing shortage of goods, but there is also a growing record production of goods in the field where these twin forces are causing excess demand. But why does the Opposition not criticise the middle man? Opposition members all the time are casting doubts on the level of retail prices; but let us look at one factor alone - the middle man. We have already had a discussion on meat, for example. In the last two or three weeks the saleyard prices of cattle, pig and sheep meats have gone down, but in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne the retail prices have gone up or remained stationary. Who is getting the cop in this? Is it the primary producer? Of course it is not, because his cattle prices have gone down. It is not the consumer, because he is paying equal to or more than the price he paid previously. These are the fields - the fields of the middle man - that we must get into. 
Transport costs are one of them, as also are agents' costs. Look at the Opposition's friends in commission agencies. The vested interests in the wool industry are making record profits. These are the people who are fleecing the primary producer- 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill 1973, the Apple and Pear Export Charges Bill 1973 and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Bill 1973 as they are related measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The honourable member has asked a series of questions. Firstly, it is not a fact that over the last 20 years wheat growers have had the benefit of a guaranteed price based on cost of production. 
I said that it is not a fact, and the honourable member should know that, because in the last stabilisation scheme introduced by the Leader of the Australian Country Party the cost of production concept was altered. In effect, it was judged to be deficient and was replaced by a formula based upon the application of a moving index of price relatives of the various commodities making up cash costs and interest actually paid by producers. This was agreed to by both sides of the House as being the most effective method to replace the cost of production formula, which was not the best method to determine a guaranteed price because of deficiencies in relation to valuing land. In regard to the second point made by the honourable member, I am not aware of what discussions are going on outside the precincts of the Australian Agricultural Council or between the Minister for Primary Industry and the Ministers for Agriculture. 
The honourable member asked what was going on outside. The main thing is that this matter is under active consideration by the Minister for Primary Industry and the Ministers for Agriculture in the States. 
The other question asked by the honourable member was whether a price equivalent to the international price should be charged to the consumers in Australia as the domestic price of wheat. I do not think that the honourable member really believes in such a suggestion. What' he is really saying is that it should be recognised that at certain periods the international price for wheat is far greater than the domestic price, just as in other periods the domestic price is far greater than the world price. It is true that in the first 10 years after the Second World War the wheat growers, for want of a better word, subsidised the Australian consumers to a very large degree; I think the figure was something like $390m. But we also must remember that in the 10 years up until this year, because of the higher domestic price for wheat the taxpayer in fact heavily subsidised the wheat grower. We must recognise this fact. I believe that the Australian Country Party has always subscribed to a policy of having a stable domestic price for wheat, but at the same time recognising that wide fluctuations can occur in the export market. All I can say in regard to the proposed new stabilisation scheme is that it is under active consideration by the Minister for Primary Industry in consultation with State Ministers. 
The concept of a federal meat marketing authority has been before various State governments and various Australian Governments over a long period of years. The basic principle, of course, is to attempt to stabilise the domestic price of meat, particularly beef, inrrspective of violent price fluctuations on the international market, and it is the same principle that I have just spoken about with respect to wheat. 
Another excellent example is sugar, the marketing of which also involves stabilising the domestic price irrespective of the violent fluctuations on the international market. But I would sound this note of warning: There is a very great difference between stabilising a homogeneous commodity like wheat or sugar and a commodity such as say, beef, in respect of which there are quite a large number of cuts. Also there are distinct export areas and distinct domestic areas of .beef production. There is quite a big difference between stabilising a livestock industry where it may be three or four years before the calf is dropped and before it is turned off, and a cash crop. So there are very grave differences with respect to administration. 
The other point of view, of course, is that the Government has no power with respect to a Federal statutory marketing authority. There has to be complementary legislation by the States. On the point raised regarding the problem of the price of beef, this is of course a perennial problem. The consumer, when he or she looks at the saleyard prices of cattle, believes meat prices ought to be lower, but when the cattleman looks at the retail price of, say, steak and other meats he thinks that he should be getting more for his cattle. The Government has decided that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics will have a good look at this distinct problem which has been bedevilling not only consumers but also the cattle industry for a great number of years. In other words, who is getting the rakeoff in the middle man area? Is it the commission agent? Is it the retail butcher? Is it the wholesale butcher? Is it transport costs, or what is it? This is in fact what the BAE will be looking at. I suggest, however, that the answer to the price of beef in Australia is to increase the production of beef, to increase the production of cattle, and particularly in the breeding areas to cut down mortality, but certainly to have policies which will increase and expand the production of beef in Australia. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Canned Fruits Export Marketing Act 1963-1970, I present the forty-seventh annual report of the Australian Canned Fruits Board for the year ended 31 December 1972, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the Fisheries Act 1952-1970. A Bill substantially the same as this was introduced into the Parliament by the previous Government in April 1971, along with a Bill to amend the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act 1968. However, they were not proceeded with then because, I believe, of problems that were experienced in relation to off-shore legislation since reintroduced by this Government as the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill. Most of the provisions of these Bills were considered by the then Government to be essential to permit the proper management of Australia's fisheries resources. They can only be regarded as even more urgent now. 
I believe it is well known, but it is certainly worth repeating, that the Australian fishing industry is one of the fastest growing of our primary industries. Just a few figures will illustrate this. The gross value of production of marine produce has risen from $3 1.7m in 1961-62 to $91.8m in 1971-72, an increase of 190 per cent. Exports have risen at an even faster rate. In 1971-72 exports of marine produce was valued at $75.7m compared with $ 15.2m in 1961-62, an increase of 398 per cent. 
It is axiomatic that an industry of the size and viability of this one needs sensible planning to ensure its continued growth and viability. I would like to say something about the present Government's policy in relation to fisheries before discussing the Bills themselves. I might first refer to the second reading speech of the then Minister of Commerce and Agriculture when introducing the original Fisheries Bill in 1952. During the course of that speech he said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to legislate in respect of swimming fish in Australian waters beyond territorial limits, in order that fishing in such waters can be so regulated that existing fisheries resources will be conserved for regular commercial development, and excessive exploitation of our fish resources will be prevented. 
The policy spelled out then of management and conservation of existing fisheries has been pursued in the administration of Australian fisheries since. Honourable members will be well aware of the emphasis the Australian Government places on conservation matters generally. However, the Government believes that its role in regulating the fishing industry should not stop at the conservation of the resources but should extend to rational utilisation of existing fisheries and the development of new ones. In regard to the future of the industry, we have already financed a number of projects designed to explore and develop new fisheries and new fishing techniques. Since the beginning of the year the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has announced the allocation of almost Sim for such projects in the southeastern and western Australian waters. The Australian Government has also allocated with the Victorian, South Australian and Tasmanian Governments in excess of $350,000 to develop new fisheries for shark fishermen adversely affected by the Victorian ban on catching and marketing large school shark containing mercury above permissible levels. 
Another aspect of our expansionist policy is to be seen in our support at the law of the sea negotiations for a 200-mile preferential fisheries zone. 
Given this policy of expanding our fisheries and extending the area of Australian jurisdiction over fisheries, it will be apparent that it is necessary to have legislation which permits giving effect to policy requirements. The amendments which these Bills introduce are partly designed to this end, and partly designed to overcome difficulties which have become apparent in administration of the existing legislation. I would add that rapid expansion of Australian fisheries as we give effect to our policies, and a favourable outcome with respect to our claim for a 200-mile fisheries zone, may well warrant a further overall review of our fisheries legislation in the future. However, the Government considers at this time that we should make only necessary amendments to existing legislation and undertake an overall review in the light of experience and results in the matters I have just mentioned. Honourable members will be aware that the existing Australian Government legislation is administered in proclaimed waters by the States as delegates of the Australian Government. A considerable FederalState machinery has grown up for this purpose. These Bills do not in any way affect the operation of that machinery except to facilitate it. 
I now turn to the provisions of the Bill. The first substantive clause is clause 5, which empowers the Minister and the Secretary to delegate their powers under the Act, subject to the reservation of licensing powers in relation to foreign vessels, fish processing and fish carrying vessels which may be delegated by the Minister or Secretary for Primary Industry only to officers of the Department. Power provided in clause 7 to cancel or suspend a licence may not be delegated at all. Clause 5 also gives effect in the Act to the principle that an official upon whom statutory powers are conferred should be subject to the directions of the Minister in the exercise of those powers. It further provides for the Minister, as defined, to delegate all of his powers under the Act to a Minister of the Papua New Guinea Government, who is further empowered by this clause to exercise those powers independently. 
The Bill above all provides practical machinery for regulating the quantity of fishing effort in fisheries requiring such regulations. Clause 6 empowers the Minister to close an area to the taking of a specified kind of fish except by vessels with licences endorsed for that fishery in that area. Selection of vessels entitled to work in a controlled effort fishery will be made in accordance with principles and policies publicly announced by the Minister in each case. To complement the control over the number of vessels, the existing provisions relating to registration of fishing gear are repealed and a new power is provided to regulate the quantity of fishing gear permitted to be used from a vessel and to require that such gear be registered under State or Territory law before it may be used in proclaimed waters. This latter provision will prevent fishermen from using one full set of gear in State waters and another in proclaimed waters and so defeat the purpose of the effort control policy. To deal with the situation of  2  fisheries in the same area using similar gear but having different management regimes, power is provided to prohibit carrying one or other kind of gear on a vessel in the area unless that gear is stowed and secured. Clause 7 provides for licensing machinery to implement the foregoing principles. 
Henceforth, a boat licence will authorise the use of a vessel to process and carry its own catch only. New classes of processing and carrying boat licences are provided for in respect of vessels that perform those functions for other vessels' catches. A new power is provided for endorsing a boat licence to authorise its use in a controlled effort fishery. The discretionary power to grant or refuse a licence is re-enacted. This power will continue to be exercised in accordance with the principle that unless there is good reason, consistent with the purposes of the Act, for refusing a licence, it will be granted. To simplify licence issuing procedures, clause 7 provides for a licence to be issued so as to expire on the same date as the State licence held by the applicant and for both Commonwealth and State licences to be printed as a single document if the State concerned so wishes. 
Cancellation of a licence for contravention of a condition, or if the holder has been convicted of an offence against this Act, the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act or a State or Territory fisheries law, is provided for in clause 7. That clause also provides for suspension of licences. If a condition is contravened, suspension may be invoked for a month or until legal proceedings (to be commenced against the holder within that time) are determined. If the licence-holder has had a State or Territory fishing licence cancelled or suspended, the Minister or the Secretary may, if he has consulted the State or Territory and if he is satisfied that suspension is desirable for the management of the fishery concerned, suspend a licence under this Act for such period as may be necessary. Suspension may be general or in relation to a specified fishery. 
The Government has sought to protect the rights of individuals in relation the cancellation or suspension of licences by providing the qualifications in clause 7. At the same time, it considers that those provisions are necessary for proper management of the fisheries and for protecting the rights of law-abiding fishermen. The Bill repeals the offences provisions of the principal Act and re-enacts them in clause 11 subject to the new principles to which I have referred. Past experience has indicated a need for extending liability in certain circumstances. The holder of a boat licence henceforth will commit an offence if he permits anybody acting on his behalf to contravene a condition of that licence. The person contravening the condition is also liable as if he were the holder of the licence. 
An act done by an employee or agent of a person charged with contravention of a notice under section 8 of the principal Act is deemed to have been done by the person charged. While the person who commits the contravention remains personally liable, the Bill, by extending liability to the master or owner of the boat, clears the way for courts to order forfeitures if such penalties are considered appropriate. Clause 11 re-enacts the forfeiture provisions, and provides that, if a conviction is recorded, the court may order forfeiture of the boat, its contents, the catch and the fishing gear. Clause 13 provides for liability, in cases of offences detected on a vessel without direct evidence of the person who committed them, to devolve upon the master of the boat. The Government considers that this is a reasonable provision, having regard to the possibility of evasion of due penalties by persons who have colluded to conceal evidence in the isolated conditions that prevail at sea. 
Clause IS simplifies the giving of evidence of certain matters by empowering the Minister, the Secretary or a delegated person to give certificates of nationality of a boat, the juridical status of an area of waters, whether a licence was or was not held at the time of an offence or whether a licence was issued subject to conditions. The Bill does not provide for extending Australia's fishery jurisdiction over foreigners beyond the existing 12 miles declared fishing zone. As I have already said, the whole question of the Law of the Sea is under international examination in the United Nations. Australia will be represented at the Law of the Sea Conference to be held in 1974. At this conference, the question of the fishery jurisdiction of coastal countries will be considered. The clauses of the Bill to which I have not referred are either formal or machinery provisions for the effective administration of the principles I have outlined. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend certain of the machinery provisions of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act to ensure more effective administration of the legislation and, in conjunction with amendments proposed in the Fisheries Bill which I have just introduced, to bring the principles embodied in the two Acts into uniformity. Where appropriate, identical definitions and provisions have been introduced. As honourable members are aware, the main purpose of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act is to enable the fullest possible protection to be given to the living resources of the continental shelf of Australia including the Great Barrier Reef and the external territories. Such control is in accordance with international law as expressed in the 1958 Convention on the Continental Shelf. Clause 4 recognises changes in portfolio responsibilities in respect of certain island territories by including them within Australia. It provides similar definitions of 'Australian ship' and foreign ship' to those in the Fisheries Bill which I have just introduced. 
Clause 8 gives effect to the principle that an official on whom statutory powers are conferred should exercise those powers in accordance with directions given by the Minister. It also takes a further step in the transfer of power to Papua New Guinea by enabling the Minister for Foreign Affairs to delegate his powers under this Act to the appropriate Minister in the Papua New Guinea Government who may exercise those powers independently. Clause 9 empowers the Minister to close an area to the taking of a specified sedentary organism except by persons or by the use of boats with licences endorsed to permit the taking of that sedentary organism in that area. These provisions will enable effective effort-control programs to be undertaken where necessary, especially in the case of removal of live coral from the Great Barrier Reef, and of the taking of abalone. Clause 10 empowers the placing of endorsements on licences to authorise the holders to take sedentary organisms in effort-controlled situations. As in the case of the Fisheries Bill, this Bill contains provisions which enable Commonwealth and State licences to be combined. 
Clause 11 provides for the cancellation or suspension of licences in exactly the same way as does the Fisheries Bill. Clause 13 re-defines the offences in relation to the use of unlicensed foreign ships to search for and take sedentary organisms. Clause 14 deems an act done by an employee or agent of a person charged with contravention of a notice under the principal Act to have been done by the person charged. As in the case of the similar provisions in the Fisheries Bill, while the person who committed the contravention remains personally liable, the Bill, by extending liability to the master or owner of the ship, clears the way for the courts to order forfeiture if considered appropriate. Clause 15 contains identical provisions to clause 11 of the Fisheries Bill. The provisions in clause 16 of the Bill are similar to those in the Fisheries Bill in relation to forfeiture penalties. Clause 17 provides similar evidentiary machinery to that in clause 16 of the Fisheries Bill. The clauses to which I have not referred deal with formal and machinery amendments for the effective administration of the Act. Because the provisions of this Bill are for practical purposes identical with many of the provisions of the Fisheries Bill, the House may consider it appropriate to debate them together. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
All I can say to the honourable member for Herbert is that the matter has been thoroughly investigated. It is before the Government at the present time. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on the legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Queensland Grant (Dawson River Weirs) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! Is the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
 The Government completely opposes the amendment moved by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and seconded by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  This amendment states, of course, in unambiguous terms that the honourable member for Farrer and the honourable member for Maranoa are opposed to the Kinchant Dam. 
Oh, yes, you are. Do not try to pull the wool over my eyes. As far as the people of Queensland, the Queensland Government, and the Queensland farmers are concerned, you oppose the Kinchant Dam by moving this amendment. Let us not have any wool pulled over our eyes. I shall now deal with the honourable member for Farrer. Frankly, I am quite amazed at the cheap politics that he has attempted to introduce.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  just listen to my case and you will see exactly how true are the words that I utter. The trouble with the honourable member for Farrer is that he still cannot believe that he is in opposition. Firstly, his statements are grossly inaccurate. He says that the project has a low priority. I do not know how low a priority one can get. It has No. 2 priority on the official list given by the Queensland Premier. 
Number One is the Bundaberg irrigation scheme, phase 1 and phase 2. The No. 2 priority given by the Queensland Government, supported by the farmers of Queensland, has been given to the Kinchant Dam. The honourable member for Farrer says that it has no priority. That just shows how inaccurate and how sadly lacking in the facts both honourable members are. 
If the honourable member wants to have a look at it, I will show him a letter from the Queensland Premier which says that the Bundaberg irrigation scheme has No. 1 priority and the Kinchant Dam scheme has No. 2 priority. But the honourable member for Farrer says that it has no priority. The second point which the honourable member for Farrer made was when he referred to the report of the previous Government. Let me inform the honourable member for Farrer that there was no report of the previous Government - none. There were a lousy 2 pages which I have here, and which wiped the scheme cold. As honourable members will recall, at the end of the last session of the previous Parliament I had to drag it out of the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  that the scheme was uneconomic and that he had advised the Queensland Premier accordingly. After 18 months of consideration it took the famous Liberal-Country Party Government 18 months to write 2 pages. There was not one word of evaluation, not one investigation by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, and not one investigation by the Department of National Development. The previous Government wiped the scheme cold. Is it any wonder that the Queensland Government was savage in its criticism of the Liberal-Country Party Government on that decision. 
However, the deception of the LiberalCountry Party Government was exposed after the change of government. I believed, and I would think that most honourable members believed, that there was a report and that an investigation had been made which did prove and back up the previous Government and the previous Prime Minister on this decision. One of the first things that I did after the change of government was to call for the report, because I did not believe what had been said. Blind Freddie would know that the scheme in that area is a highly viable, economic scheme. When I called for the report I found that there were only 2 pages, wiping the scheme cold. 
in reply - I thank the honourable members who have spoken in this debate for the constructive suggestions contained in the views they expressed. 
I assure the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  that there will be close consultation with the States in the development of the fishing industry throughout Australia. It is quite clear that the various State laws relating to the coastline and the Australian Government laws with respect to the fishing zones - the territorial seas - must always be considered as complementary. I certainly give the honourable member the assurance that close consultation will take place. 
I do not agree with everything that the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  said, but I think I am right in reading into his words that he is concerned that there has been some measure of neglect, or that the fishing industry in Australia has not received the support, either financially or in policy areas that it warrants in terms of its importance to Australia's development. If the honourable member for Cowper means that, I certainly agree with him. I do not believe that the fishing industry has received such support. I believe that the fishing industry throughout Australia has had to develop on a most uncoordinated basis, and in fact it is a wonder that we have any fishing industry in many areas of Australia. 
Let rae cite just one example of this. I refer to the town of Karumba in northern Australia. It is located on the shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria and it serves one of the richest prawn areas in the world, and yet the town is a disgrace - through no fault of the people who live there. In fact, they have done a remarkable job in keeping their heads above water, in surviving. Perhaps I should not say that they are keeping their heads 'above water' because there is no water; the lack of fresh water is one of the problems facing Karumba. For example, it is incredible to see the seepage of sewage waste matter on the surface of the ground at the State school at Karumba and the pollution of the river by the offal that is being dumped into the river. Karumba is an unsewered area and it lacks a decent road link to Normanton. The water situation in that area is so critical that, for many days, the people are unable even to take a bath and in fact, in some months of the year they are restricted in the amount of water they can drink. Yet this is one of the most important export areas in Australia in the fishing industry. From memory, I think the value of exports from the northern area is something like $6m a year. 
The Government of which the honourable member for Cowper was a supporter had the carriage of this responsibility. The honourable member should not have introduced politics into this matter because a proposition was put to his Government in 1968, and nothing was done about it. The honourable member might level the same charge against this Government, but at least the investigation into the industry has been given urgent priority by the various Commonwealth departments in association with the State departments. A report has been completed, and the matter is before the Australian Government for urgent consideration, because unless that area obtains drinking water and water for processing, and a decent access road is provided, it will be in a serious situation. 
Order! The Minister is getting a little wide of the Bill. He is replying to the debate. 
When I was making my second reading speech on the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill, it crossed my mind that the reference to the Minister of State for External Territories was incorrect. In actual fact, of course, there is no Minister of State for External Territories at the present time. Section 6 of the principal Act also refers to that Minister and to his Department. By way of explanation, at the time when the Bill was introduced into the Parliament there was a Minister for External Territories, and the reference in the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill to the Minister for External Territories has already been adjusted by the necessary order of the Governor-General under section 19b of the Acts Interpretation Act. The present Administrative Arrangements Order provides that the Special Minister of State shall administer the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act with respect to the external territories of Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will administer the Act so far as it relates to Papua New Guinea. This point was not made clear in my second reading speech when reference was made to the Minister of State for External Territories. 
In regard to the Fisheries Bill 1973, there is no reference in the second reading speech to the Minister for External Territories, but this Bill and the principal Act make reference to the Minister for External Territories exercising powers under that Act in relation to external territories. The Administrative Arrangements Order designates only the Minister for Primary Industry as administering the Fisheries Act. I think that that clarifies that particular point. I am pleased that the Opposition has supported the Bill because I believe it is an important Bill particularly with respect to law and order on the sea in regard to fishing and also with respect to the removal of sedentary species from the Great Barrier Reef area. One important matter which has not yet been finalised relates to the actual ownership of and control over these resources. In my opinion, and in the opinion of this Government, there is only one answer - the Australian Government should have control over these resources. I hope that when the Law of the Sea Convention meets, I think, next year to thrash out many of these matters, including perhaps the setting of a fishing zone of 200 miles from the coast, it will take this matter into consideration so that Australian Government jurisdiction will be asserted in a far more positive way than it is today, particularly over many of our waters, including the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Great Barrier Reef waters which as far as I am concerned are 100 per cent Australian waters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Todd River did rise on 25 November 1973 to a very high level and could well have risen to some 18 inches below the causeway footbridge. There was some disruption of vehicular and pedestrian traffic as a result. The footbridge was closed for some time because a power pole on the west bank was vibrating and looked as though it might fall across the bridge. The power house was fully manned at all times. 
The situation was not regarded as serious enough to warrant it being brought to my attention. Should a power pole have been washed into the river, the power supply would have been disconnected instantly by automatic protection equipment installed at the power station. My Department is looking at alternative proposals for feeding power to the west side of the Todd River to prevent the possibility of future interruptions to power supplies. 
Afirm of town planning consultants, Hansen Dodd of Sydney, employed by the Cities Commission is currently looking at future planning for Alice Springs. One question they are investigating is whether a bridge across the Todd River, capable of carrying motor traffic, is required and, if so, its best location. 
At this stage there are no reliable estimates of the extent of the losses of cattle in the Gulf country of Queensland. A very large proportion of the country, as the honourable member well knows, is still under water. It can be said, however, that in the areas worst hit - that is those areas through which the Mitchell, Staaten, Gilbert, Norman, Flinders and Leichhardt Rivers flow - there have been tremendous losses. Thousands of square miles of this country were completely under water. Evidence has now come to light that hundreds of dead cattle have been found 15 to 20 feet up trees. Mobs of cattle were found 60 to 70 miles out in the Gulf waters. Cattle had swum or floated hundreds of miles to other places. 
It is certain that this tragedy has caused a tremendous setback to the cattle industry in the Gulf area. Rough estimates of the loss of cattle in these areas have been made. Some estimates suggest that approximately 300,000 to 350,000 breeding cattle and their calves have been lost. The estimates, of course, are based simply on the fact that thousands of square miles were covered by water and that nothing could possibly survive except some animals that are up trees. The position in relation to that area is quite tragic. This is the greatest natural disaster ever to hit northern Queensland, which is the most important breeding area of Australia. 
The great problem now is what to do. Many people have lost everything. They have lost all their cattle, fences, buildings, structures, water points and dips. Many of them now are bankrupt. The question now is: When the flood waters recede - and they are slowly receding - how do those people re-stock? One cannot manufacture breeding cattle. There must also be some acclimatisation of breeding stock taken to the area. Breeding cows can come only from the Northern Territory or from Cape York Peninsula. In both of those areas there is a deficiency of breeding cattle. It is quite clear that the cattle industry in this area of northern Australia is in serious trouble. 
The second part of the question asked by the honourable member sought information as to what the Government is doing. The honourable member heard the remarks of the Treasurer. As far as that area is concerned, the Australian Government has agreed to make finance available, by way of loans of up to $40,000, to allow for carry-on and re-stocking and for essential repairs to be made. The Government appreciates the fact that this finance will not buy many breeding cattle - even if the cattlemen could get them. At the same time, the Government has given urgent priority to rebuilding the top arterial and feeder roads in the area to allow equipment to get into the area and to allow at least some store cattle, if possible, and some breeding cattle into the area. Financial provisions have been made available in relation to people in distress and in relation to personal losses, housing and so on. Irrespective of which way honourable members examine this matter, it is a major tragedy. In some areas the cattle population has disappeared. The losses cannot be replaced. The only means of replacing the losses is by transferring cattle from point A to point B. What really is needed is major cooperation between the Australian Government, the State Government and the cattle industry to try to do something to overcome the devastation that has occurred in this area. 
The Government has had this matter under consideration for some time. A decision has been taken and the Prime Minister has made an announcement. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  During question time, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  made certain allegations about a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft which landed at Mount Isa.  His  remarks were a reflection against me also. I was in that aircraft and it was at my invitation that the Acting Prime Minister came to the north to see the suffering of the people. The points made by the honourable member for New England are utterly untrue. I do not believe that the honourable member manufactured them himself. All I can say to the honourable member is that whoever told him those things ought to be ashamed of himself because what the Acting Prime Minister did at an important, urgent conference was to make provision for Caribou aircraft to go to Gunpowder, to make provision for Army engineers to work on the Mount Isa railway and to give an undertaking to the people that the defence forces would continue to work for as long as they were required in the Gulf country of Queensland. 
Pursuant to clause 8 of the Sugar Agreement 1969 I present the report on the operations of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with the Committee's financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969 I present the fourth annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Fishing Industry Act 1956 I present the seventeenth annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Tobacco Industry Act 1955-56 I present the eighteenth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Australian Wool Commission for the period January to June 1973. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
The answer to the right honorable member's question is: 
Nabalco Engineering Pty Ltd has been commissioned by the Department of Northern Development to undertake the study. 
The aims of the study are: 
Review the resources and industry of the region including development in progress, proposed or under consideration. 
Investigate the prospect for and the factors relevant to industrial development within the region including the establishment of a major steel plant. 
Report on whether, and if so how, industrial development could be integrated with the existing industry structure and proposed new developments to maximise the benefits of any such developments. 
The consultant recently commenced the study and has established liaison with appropriate departments of the Australian and State governments. 
The consultant is required to submit a preliminary report no later than 17 May 1974 and the final report no later than 30 June 1974. This timetable may be varied only by mutual agreement between the consultant and the Department if the study needs to be expanded in any direction. 
While confidential government or industrial information may have to be deleted for publication, I would hope that the report could be publicised widely in order to generate industrial interest, and public awareness of the potential for development of the area concerned and create a suitable climate for subsequent detailed studies of particular industries and/or other important matters introduced by the report. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prices and Consumer Affairs Branch of the Department of the Northern Territory and the Consumers Protection Council are both involved in consumer protection measures. 
The activities of the Branch in conjunction with the Council are: 
formulation and review of policy relating to the whole range of consumers affairs in the Northern Territory; 
administration of Northern Territory laws relating to consumer protection and pricing including rent control; 
review any amendment of legislation to meet changes in need and circumstances; 
investigation of price structures to enable price stabilisation. Research into costs and relativities between prices. 
Approval for the creation of the Prices and Consumer Affairs Branch was given by the Public Service Board on 4 October 1973 with a proposed staff of 22. At present the Branch consists of 8 officers, one of whom is the Secretary of the Consumers Protection Council. The Council consists of a membership of six persons. 
It would be correct to say that the proposed stabilisation scheme is a radical departure from the previous stabilisation scheme in that instead of having a guaranteed price related to, say, an export of 200 million bushels the actual price will be correlated with the world price based on the historic value over a preceding number of seasons. The argument is that this will give a true relationship with respect to world prices. As regards the cost index itself, unless something has happened in the last week of which I am unaware - I have been away a lot - to the best of my knowledge the domestic price will be related to an index of cost movements; that is, cash costs and freight charges. It is not correct that it will be related to costs of production. This is an index of cost movements and changes in the domestic price will be directly related to movements in this index. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics will be utilising its price relatives by collecting the various figures concerned with movements in costs of those materials and services that go into the production of wheat. Those price relatives will be applied to an index which will show the cost movements to be related to the domestic price. 
It includes all fertiliser costs, freight costs, service charges and so forth. It does not include depreciation or the owner-operator's allowance. Regarding the question of a ballot, I shall draw this to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister has assured me that although the proposal represents a radical departure from the previous scheme, it is a scheme for the better. 
(12.21 - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill is designed primarily to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972-73, to provide for financing the projected cost of programs of wool research and promotion, and to finance the marketing administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation, during the 3 years commencing in July 1974. So far as research is concerned, the program represents only a part of the total research effort from which the wool industry derives benefit, but the provisions of the Bill will ensure the continuation of arrangements which have a long history in the wool industry. 
When the Wool Industry Act was amended last year, to provide for the financing of the wool research and promotion activities and the marketing administrative expenses for 1973-74, it was stated that the Government would be examining the whole question of the financing of research and promotion together with the need for longer-term forward programs beyond 1973-74. Honourable members will recall that in introducing the amending legislation last year, I outlined the problems inherent in forwarding programming of research and promotion activities because of unpredictable and uncertain changes in wool income, and the effect of inescapable increases in salaries and other costs. 
The Government has since reviewed the problems of co-ordinating, programming and financing wool research and promotion, and has decided on the arrangements for a 3-year forward program commencing on 1 July this year. The Government approached the overall question of research and promotion expenditure with a view to taking account of the following major factors: Adequacy of the coordination and planning of research and promotion; the desirability of forward programs of research and promotion for particular periods; and the overall philosophy that the beneficiaries of research and promotion programs should bear the greater proportion of total costs of those programs. 
Budgets for appropriate programs of research and promotion for each of the 3 years commencing in 1974-75 have been developed in consultation with the Australian Wool Corporation and, through the Corporation, with the International Wool Secretariat, with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and with the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The views of wool growers on these programs are directed through the Corporation and achieve considerable force. The cost of these programs, together with the estimated costs associated with the administration of the marketing activities of the Corporation, and inclusive of an allowance for estimated wage and cost increases, amount to $44.2m in 1974-75. $49m in 1975-76 and $53.1m in 1976-77. The programs of research and promotion will be financed jointly by contributions from wool growers and the Government. The cost of marketing administration will be borne entirely by the industry. I will refer to major provisions of this Bill under the three main headings of research, promotion and marketing administrative costs of the AWC. I will then refer briefly to the wool tax which is levied on growers to provide for their financial contribution. 
Research 
The extent of the Government's involvement in the financing of the research program has been carefully examined, and it is considered that whilst rural producers benefit directly from many of the results of rural research, the Australian community, in general, also benefits in many ways from this research activity. Benefits accrue, for example, through more assured food and fibre supplies as a result of productivity increases in the rural sector. Further, research programs in agricultural and biological sciences often have broad implications for the quality of the environment generally, and for the maintenance of the productive capacity of renewable resources. 
Recognising that the benefits of research are so widely distributed, the Government has decided that it would be appropriate for a greater share of the cost to be borne by a contribution from public funds than has been the case in the past. In other words, the Government has decided to increase its share of the cost of the research programs financed from the Wool Research Trust Fund. Accordingly, the Government has decided that it will contribute three quarters of the cost of ap proved programs of wool research, to be financed through the Wool Research Trust Fund, during the second and third years of the forthcoming triennium. Wool producers will be asked to finance the remaining one quarter. In order that there is adequate warning of these changed arrangements, the present cost sharing arrangement will be continued for 
1974- 75. 
Promotion 
With regard to wool promotion, the Government has carefully studied the promotion activities of the International Wool Secretariat and the Australian Wool Corporation. It is agreed that there are strong economic arguments in favour of wool promotion expenditure and the benefits of promotion do spread to groups other than wool growers. In addition, the Government recognises the need for continual development and improvement of the technical processing properties of wool as a fibre and the promotion of these advantages at all stages in the marketing chain. In this way the demand for wool is influenced, both absolutely and in relation to competing fibres. 
It is the Government's judgment, however, that the balance of arguments concerning the distribution of benefits from promotion differs from that for research. The benefits from promotion activity accrue more directly to producers than to other members of the community, and accordingly it is considered that wool growers themselves should make the major financial commitment to promotion expenditure. On this basis the Government has decided to finance one quarter of the projected wool promotion budgets, leaving to wool growers the responsibility of financing the balance. Again, in order to ensure adequate advance notice of the changed arrangements for financing the promotion programs, the Government has agreed to defer implementation of the new funding basis until 1975- 76. Accordingly, for 1974-75, the Government will continue to contribute on an equal basis with wool growers towards the cost of both research and promotion. 
Marketing Administrative Costs 
The administrative cost of discharging the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation is currently met in total from part of the proceeds of the wool tax. This arrangement is to continue. Prior to 1973-74, these expenses were met by a charge levied by the Australian Wool Corporation, and its predecessor organisation, on shorn wool sold at auction by brokers. In 1973-74, this charge was incorporated into the wool tax and applied over all shorn wool sold. The operative rate of tax therefore incorporates a component related to the financing of marketing administrative costs. 
To summarise the effect of the decisions outlined above, programs of wool research and promotion, and the financing of the marketing administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation during the 3 years 1974-75 to 1976-77, have been established at the following levels: 

<graphic href="088131197403141_28_2.jpg"></graphic>

The Government will contribute on the basis of maximum amounts of $22m in 1974-75; $20m in 1975-76 and $21m in 1976-77. These amounts have been rounded upwards so as to provide a small margin for administrative convenience in the detailed allocation of the funds. Any benefit of the rounding will accrue to the industry. 
Wool Tax 
Woolgrowers' contributions are raised by means of the wool tax. A question of importance, therefore, is the level of the tax for the next 3 years, and particularly for 1974-75. At present the wool tax is set at 2.4 per cent of the value of shorn wool. It can be calculated that, on the basis of a total seasonal return from shorn wool of about $ 1,000m, that is slightly below last year's high level, there would be no need to increase the rate of tax in order to provide sufficient finance to meet the budget in 1974-75. However, should the return from shorn wool decline to the order of $850m, for instance, a levy of 2.75 per cent would be required. In view of the fluctuations often experienced in wool returns, the Government has decided that it would be prudent to raise the existing rate of wool tax to 2.75 per cent for 1974-75. The Treasurer is making arrangements for the necessary changes to the Wool Tax Regulations. It is possible that a tax of 2.75 per cent will result in some surplus above the amount required for funding purposes during 1974-75, but any surplus would be credited to the Wool Research Trust Fund where it would be carried forward to help finance expenditure in future years. I should make it clear that moneys placed in the Wool Research Trust Fund may be used only for expenditure on approved wool research, and thus there is full assurance for growers who contribute tax that money placed in the Fund will not be used for other purposes. 
The Wool Tax Acts provide for a maximum rate of tax of 3 per cent. The present operative rate is 2.4 per cent. The increased rate which will apply as from 30 June next is thus still below the maximum rate already provided for. Depending on future movements in wool production and wool prices, it may be necessary to vary the rate of tax in subsequent years. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has discussed with the Australian Wool Industry Conference the financing and programming arrangements for the triennium. The Conference, through its  Chairman,  has indicated agreement with the forward planning principles and accepted the advisability of the increased rate of wool tax which will be levied during the coming financial year. 
I now turn to the specific amendments of the Wool Industry Act 1972-1973, which are required in terms of the Government's decision, and to a number of amendments of a machinery nature which it is convenient to make at this time. The Bill provides for amendments to Part I of the Principal Act by the deletion of references to the Interim  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation. The permanent  Chairman  having assumed office, the position of Interim  Chairman  cannot be filled again. The various references to the office of Interim  Chairman  in other parts of the Principal Act are also removed. Section 83 (2a) of the Principal Act is amended to provide for a continuation of the existing arrangements whereby the Minister, after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference, determines the total amount of wool tax to be paid to the Corporation in each year. The balance of tax receipts is paid into the Wool 
Research Trust Fund. Section 84a of the Principal Act is amended to provide for payment to the Corporation and to the Wool Research Trust Fund of the Government contributions for the triennium commencing in 1974-75. Clauses have been included in recognition of relevant provisions of the Remuneration Tribunal Act, 1973, which relate to the remuneration of statutory office holders. 
The Government's commitment to contribute to the 3 year program of wool research and promotion will provide an immediate and sure base on which forward programs can be developed. It is the intention of the Government that the question of Government assistance for rural research and promotion generally will be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. The Government's policy in relation to the continuation of assistance for wool research and promotion beyond June 1977 will be determined in the light, of the report of the Commission. The present funding arrangements for wool research and promotion will terminate on 30 June next. It is essential, therefore, in the interests of the wool industry, that this amending legislation to provide for the continuation of the funding arrangements be enacted prior to that date. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
Last night I received some urgent messages from the Northern Territory that cyclone Jenny had caused serious damage in the Daly River area and that, as a result of the rising of the waters, at least 300 people were stranded at the Catholic mission at what is called Misery Hill. Most of them are Aboriginal children, old people, nuns and missionaries. The situation has become quite desperate in the sense that they must be moved out of that area. I immediately contacted the authorities and today the Royal Australian Air Force is taking urgent measures to move the missionaries, the Aboriginal children and old people away from this area. Cyclone Jenny is continuing its course. It is heading towards Port Keats where, of course, it can do a lot more damage before it crosses the coast again and moves out to sea. I can assure the honourable member and the other members of the House that every possible step is being taken by the Air Force and other authorities to evacuate these unfortunate people from this area which is being devastated by the cyclone. Arrangements have been made with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to move these people to Batchelor where they will be looked after until more comfortable accommodation can be arranged for them. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that on 23 August last year the then Minister for External Territories introduced the Papua New Guinea (Application of Laws) Bill. This legislation received royal assent on 30 October 1973. It enabled a smooth transfer of powers to Papua New Guinea which was self-governing from 1 December 1973. Some powers, other than defence and foreign affairs, have not been transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government as the Application of Laws Act alone is not the appropriate vehicle. Powers under the Fisheries Act 1952-1973 are in this category. The Bill now before the House will enable Papua New Guinea to administer its own fisheries legislation and, I am informed, the Papua New Guinea Government wishes to do this as soon as possible. A Fisheries Act has been passed by the House of Assembly in Port Moresby in anticipation of the transfer of the fisheries powers. 
This Bill overcomes the problem of definition of 'foreign boat' in the existing legislation. Without this amendment, during the period between self-government and independence, Papua New Guinea boats would continue to be subject to Australian jurisdiction while in Australian proclaimed waters. This is unacceptable to Papua New Guinea which wishes its fishing vessels to be treated in the same manner as other foreign boats. The need for clause 2 of the Bill arises as a result of amendments to the principal Act not yet having come into operation. Sub-clause 2 (1) willprovide the immediate transfer of powers desired by Papua New Guinea and sub-clause 2 (2) will provide the permanent amendment to the principal Act when amendments passed in 1973 are brought into operation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Codex Section of the Department's Food Services Branch, Agriculture and Food Services Division, has responsibilities which are relevant to consumer protection. 
The Codex Section provides a secretariat for Australian involvement in the work of the Codex Alimentarius Commission and its subsidiary bodies. The Commission is an international forum for consultation between governments. It is responsible for promoting standardisation of food products with the objectives of facilitating international trade and protecting the consumer against health risks and fraud. 
There are seven officers in the Codex Section who are responsible to the Assistant Secretary, Food Services Branch. Commodity experts from other areas of the Department become involved in specific aspects of the work of the Codex Alimentarius Commission and its subsidiaries primarily as advisors on technical matters. 
 The Minister for Primary industry has provided the following answer  to  the right honourable member's question: 
&amp; (2) Since the Government came to office it has approved the spending of over one million dollars on research and development in the fishing industry. This sum includes $504,288 from the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account for wide range  of  continuing and new projects of direct benefit to the fishing industry, $514,115 from the Fisheries Development Trust Account for development projects and special grant totalling $167,550 to Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia for the purpose of developing alternative fisheries for displaced shark fishermen. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
It is assumed that the question refers to the relatively new woodchip export industry. Woodchips have been produced for many years for manufacture in Australia of paper and particleboard. 
There are four export woodchip companies currently operating in Australia, these are HarrisDaishowa (Australia) Pty Ltd, Tasmanian Pulp and Forest Holdings Ltd (TPFH), Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd (APPM), and Northern Woodchips Pty Ltd (NWC). In addition, W.A. Chip and Pulp Co. Pty Ltd will begin shipping woodchips to Japan in 1976. 
Another company. Consolidated Forests (Lake Gordon) pty Ltd has commenced the export to Japan of pulpwood logs &gt;(as opposed to woodchips). The raw material is being salvaged from Lake Gordon prior to its flooding in two years. This is a relatively small-scale, short-term venture. 
The four established woodchip projects have chipmills adjacent to the port of export and are centrally situated with respect to the source of pulpwood. Harris-Daishowa exports through Twofold Bay, near Eden, New South Wales, APPM and NWC through Long Reach on the Tamar River in Tasmania, and TPFH through Triabunna, Tasmania. The new venture, W.A. Chip and Pulp Co. will draw pulpwood from an area around Manjimup in Western Australia and will ship woodchips from Bunbury Harbour. Consolidated Forests (Lake Gordon) is exporting pulpwood logs through Hobart. 
The current annual production of woodchips for export is of the order of 3 million tonnes. 
Each company's permit for the export of woodchips is in the form of approval to export to Japan a specified maximum quantity at a specified minimum price each year for a number of years, subject to certain conditions. 
The specified minimum prices are confidential for commercial reasons. 
Harris-Daishowa has approval to export up to 750,000 tonnes green woodchips annually until 31 December 1976, conditional upon the installation of a pulpmill on or before 1 January 1977, of a minimum capacity of 510 tonnes of woodpulp per day and provided that the company keeps the Government fully informed of its plans relating to the pulpmil  
TPFH may export up to 710,000 tonnes green woodchips per annum for eighteen years as from 1 January 1971. In granting the permit, the Minister for National Development took into account measures adopted by the Tasmanian Government regarding the preparation of a feasibility study for a pulpmill, as detailed in the Pulpwood Products Industry (Eastern and Central Tasmania) Act 1968-71. 
APPM has permits to export some 975,000 tonnes of green woodchips each year until December 1978, and thereafter at an annual rate of up to 610,000 tonnes until mid 1983. This Company is obliged to commence a major pulping development of 510 tonnes pulp per day at Wesley Vale during 1978. Recently approval was also granted to APPM to export, prior to 1975, an additional 50,000 tonnes of woodchips to be derived from pulpwood salvaged from Lake Gordon. 
The permit held by NWC allows the company to export up to 710,000 tonnes green woodchips per year for fifteen years, as from January 1972. Unlike the other woodchip companies which derive a large proportion of their pulpwood from Crown lands where reafforestation is the responsibility of the various State Forestry Commissions, NWC obtains its raw material from private land and sawmill residue. A special condition attached to this company's permit is that it commence reafforestation at a rate of 5,000 acres per annum by July 1977. Approval to NWC is also conditional upon the company carrying out a feasibility study for a pulpmill, and if profitability is indicated, to commence the erection of the pulpmill by 1981 and begin production of pulp by 1986. 
The W.A. Chip and Pulp Co., became the first company required to submit to the Australian Government an environmental impact statement together with its application for an export permit for woodchips. In August 1973  Senator Wriedt  granted the company approval to export up to 750,000 tonnes green woodchips per year from 1976, at approved prices and in accordance with the amended Wood Chipping Industry Agreement Act (Western Australia). The company's obligation to carry out a pulpmill feasibility study is set out in this Act. The licence was granted to the company on the understanding that should any new environmental issues arise out of the work of the Australian Government's inter-departmental working party on the economic and environmental implications of the woodchip industry, which it would be reasonable to require the company to take into account, then the Western Australian Government will include such requirements in its arrangements with the company. 
The New South Wales Forestry Commission has issued Harris-Daishowa with a Special Licence (No. L78005) to apply until 1990, granting the company the right to obtain pulpwood logs from a number of State Forests, Timber Reserves and Crown Lands in Parishes of the far south coast of New South Wales. The licensee is authorised to obtain a minimum annual volume of 457,000 tonnes of green round or split timber per annum. 
In accordance with the Pulpwood Products Industry (Eastern and Central Tasmania) Act 1968-71, the Tasmanian Forestry Commission has granted TPFH a Special Licence conferring on the company exclusive rights to obtain up to 508,000 tonnes of pulpwood annually from a large pulpwood area situated along the east coast of Tasmania, and bounded by Dunalley, Colebrook and Gladstone. In certain circumstances, additional pulpwood can be taken from adjacent reserve areas inland. Under the 
Act, TPFH has the initial right to obtain up to 7.6m tonnes of pulpwood from its Crown concessions over a period to eighteen years as from October, 1970. The company also may obtain a long term right to additional pulpwood from its reserve area for a period of eighty years, provided that it establishes a pulpmill within a specified period. 
Otherwise, the company may be granted a continuation right such as may be agreed between the Minister and the company. 
A Special Licence has been granted to APPM by the Tasmanian Forestry Commission, under the Wesley Vale Pulp and Paper Industry Act 1961-67, conferring on the company exclusive rights to pulpwood from a pulpwood area and a reserve area in northern Tasmania, and extensive water rights. The Special Licence specifies that afer twelve years the company must obtain at least 50,000 cords (approximately 100,000 tonnes) of pulpwood per year from the pulpwood area. The Commission will authorise APPM to obtain pulpwood from its reserve area, when the company demonstrates its ability to obtain 75,000 cords (approximately 150,000 tonnes) annually. The Licence specifies that after thirty years, the company must remove pulpwood at a minimum annual rate of 75,000 cords (approximately 150,000 tonnes) from each of the pulpwood and reserve areas, otherwise it will be denied the further use of the reserve area. Under the Act, APPM also has the right to take without charge some 10 to 20 million gallons 'of water per day from the Mersey River system. 
Northern Woodchips draws its pulpwood from private lands and sawmill waste. The company has not been granted a licence to utilize Crown resources. 
Under the amended Wood Chipping Industry Agreement of Western Australia, the W.A. Chip and Pulp Co. Pty Ltd is to be granted a Forest Produce (Chipwood) Licence enabling the company to remove 680,000 tonnes of green chips from the licence area around Manjimup for fifteen years from 1976. The State is obliged to lease the company the chipping mill site, the stockpile site and must design and construct the berth at Bunbury Harbour for the priority use of the company. The company may be granted a licence to obtain pulpwood from alternate sources of supply if the existing sources of supply do not meet the combined requirement of its woodchip contracts and the future pulpmill. 
Harris-Daishowa currently has a submission before the Australian Government to increase its existing export permits. A consortium Standard Sawmilling Company- Carter Consolidated Ltd, and another company Allen Taylor and Co. Ltd, each have submitted a proposal to export woodchips derived from sawmill and forest residues, to be exported through the ports of Brisbane and Coffs Harbour respectively. All companies have been asked to provide further information before their application can be considered by the Australian Government. 
A recent survey by the Tasmanian Forestry Commission indicates that the supply of pulpwood from private forests is fully committed and it is not expected that any new woodchip export industries will be established in that State. 
Harris-Daishowa's submission was received in early April 1973. The submissions from the Standard Sawmilling-Carter Consolidated consortium, and 
Allen Taylor and Co. both were received in December 1973. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on price differentials in the meat market, dated March 1974, which was prepared by the Bureau of Agricultural- Economics. The report has not been considered by the Government but it is being made available at this time to assist the Joint Committee on Prices in its deliberations on meat prices. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In introducing this new legislation affecting land prices in the vicinity of declared growth centres in the Northern Territory, the Government is seeking to provide some form of control over land prices as a part of an overall planned program of rational urban development which has particular application to Darwin. Speculative increases in land prices on the outskirts of Darwin have been evident in recent years and in the process of expansion of urban leasehold systems in the Northern Territory where the reserve price system applies, it is essential to remove the speculative content from acquisition costs so that the public can secure land eventually at reasonable prices. 
My colleague, the former Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Enderby,  outlined in a comprehensive Press statement on 15 February 1973 a co-ordinated program of urban development in the Northern Territory, including the provision of this type of legislation. At that stage, South Australia had the Murray New Town Act of 1972 operating and other States have since considered similar legislation. 
Because the provisions of this new legislation, which will apply only to the Northern Territory, modify some of the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act which applies throughout Australia, it is not considered appropriate that the modifications should be brought in by way of a Northern Territory ordinance but rather they should be brought in by way of a Federal Act through this Parliament as companion legislation to the Lands Acquisition Act itself. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority to stabilise the prices of land in the Northern Territory required, or likely to be required, in connection with urban development. This process is regarded as an important aspect of large scale acquisition by Government for urban development and is designed to prevent speculative rises in the market value of land held in private ownership. 
The area of greatest interest in the Northern Territory is the general area within a radius of about 60 miles of Darwin in which there is a fairly large number of undeveloped and unused 160 acre and 320 acre freehold blocks granted about 100 years ago when South Australia had control of the Northern Territory. Some of this freehold is still held in the names of the original grantees, some is held in the name of descendants of the original grantees while some have passed, over the years, through the hands of various purchasers at ever increasing prices. In areas surrounding other towns in the Territory the impact will not be so great in that the areas adjacent to those towns are either Crown land or are held under rural leasehold tenure such as pastoral or agricultural leases. 
The Bill provides for the declaration initially of an investigation area in which persons authorised by the Minister may carry out investigations on private land to determine its suitability for urban development. The period of investigation may be any time up to a maximum of 2 years. When investigations are complete, the Bill provides that the Minister may declare a development area in which all land may be the subject of acquisition under the Lands Acquisition Act within a specified period not exceeding 10 years. Provision is made for the Registrar-General for the Northern Territory to note on all titles affected, the declaration of a development area. This will have the effect of drawing to the attention of those purchasing land that the land may be acquired by the Government for urban development. 
The Bill also contains provisions which restrict development of the land - that is, new buildings or major improvements - except where authorised by the Minister, or any major change in the use of the land from that use applying at the date of declaration of the development area. This is designed to curtail attempts for speculative reasons to improve the land or put it to optimum use because of the declared urban development. In the cases of financial hardship occurring, there is a provision which permits the Minister to take appropriate action for the acquisition of the land under the Lands Acquisition Act. 
In any development area where the Government moves to acquire property under the Lands Acquisition Act, the provisions of that Act will in effect be modified so as to provide for compensation to be paid on a basis which will have regard to firstly, the base value or market value of the land as at the date of declaration of the investigation area; secondly, a value increase factor determined by the Valuer General; and thirdly, any additional improvements approved by the Minister added since the date of declaration of the development area. 
The value factor or factors which will allow for normal increases or decreases in the value of land will be fixed by the Valuer General having regard to information available and be set out in the form of a determination and lodged with the Minister. This percentage increase or decrease will be notified to the owner by the Minister and be accepted in a court or arbitration determination as the adjustment to be made to the base value at declaration, by reason of the time lapse until the acquisition date. The normal provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act will generally apply, except that the effective date for the base value will be the date of the first declaration of the investigation area and the only increase in value set will be that fixed by the Valuer General being a normally expected increase rather than a speculative increase resulting from knowledge of the development itself. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. . 
 I would like to thank the Opposition for supporting this Bill. I do not think there were any serious objections to the overall objective which the amendment will achieve. Various points of view were put forward regarding some vital issues in relation to future determinations about territorial boundaries and fishing in so-called international waters lying between Australia and Papua New Guinea. The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  also sounded a note of caution with respect to not only Papua New Guinean boats but boats from other countries coming into the grey areas of Australian proclaimed waters such as those off the coast of New South Wales, Tasmania, the Great Barrier Reef and the Gulf of Carpentaria. It is certainly the Government's hope that in the future, perhaps at the law of the sea conference, a number of contentious questions will be ironed out more satisfactorily. If the Bill is passed it will of course give Papua New Guinea complete control of the administration of its own fishing laws. I believe that that is what all political parties in Australia want. Under the present laws any boats from Papua New Guinea in Australian proclaimed waters come under the jurisdiction of the Australian Government. This amendment to the Fisheries Act will alter that and will mean that boats from Papua New Guinea will be treated in exactly the same way as all other foreign boats coming into Australian waters, fishing zones, territorial sea waters or whatever it might be, keeping in mind of course any bilateral agreements which might exist between the 2 countries. 
The honourable member for Cowper raised a point regarding the type of legislation that was passed by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. That legislation is mirror legislation of the Australian Fisheries Act. This hope was that it would allow for co-operation between Australia and Papua New Guinea or, for that matter, any other country. That certainly can be achieved and will be achieved by the Act that has been passed by the Papua New Guinea Government in relation to the Australian laws. As I pointed out before, in practice there was a de facto relationship in that the Government of Papua New Guinea really had autonomy regarding the operation of its boats in adjacent waters, but, as has been pointed out, that is not correct in terms of law. This legislation will alter the situation. 
Mention has been made of the Gulf of Carpentaria. This Bill, if passed, will in fact legalise the unrestricted entry of boats from Papua New Guinea into the international waters of the Gulf of Carpentaria, that is, outside the 12-mile limit. The same situation applies to other countries. The governments of the 2 countries recognise the problems that can be caused in areas such as the Gulf of Carpentaria. It is the Australian Government's hope that a bilateral fishing agreement will be ironed out between the Australian Govern- ment and the Papua New Guinea Government which will allow for the rational management and husbandry of the fishing resources in the areas' which lie in common ground between the- 2 countries. In speaking about the Gulf of Carpentaria I would like to pay a tribute in passing to the fishermen and others who operate from the Karumba area, which was devastated a few months ago by the worst floods in the history of the white man in that area... They almost destroyed Karumba. But the people up there - those who run the fishing and processing companies and the fishermen themselves - have joined together to rebuild what is a very important fishing area as far asexports are concerned. 
We have been talking mostly about northern Australia in relation to this legislation. It will also mean, of course, that boats from Papua New Guinea, which will be able to fish anywhere in the world, will as far as Australia is concerned, be able to fish anywhere off the coast of Australia - not just in the Gulf of Carpentaria or the Torres Strait or in waters adjacent to northern Australia but adjacent to any part of Australia - as long as they are in international waters. It will be a matter between the 2 governments as to whether some bilateral agreement will allow them to fish in Australian proclaimed waters. In considering this matter we should not restrict our arguments to northern Australian waters but also should take into consideration the proclaimed waters off the shores of Australia and the international waters outside the 12-mile limit. As has been mentioned by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  there are problems that will have to be faced. Although they are not the central issue of this legislation the Government, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, is well aware of the grey areas that exist in the future determination of proclaimed waters. It is to be hoped that this matter will be amicably settled between the Australian Government and the Government of Papua New Guinea. As the Prime Minister has said, he has invited the Premier of Queensland,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  to take part in discussions aimed at arriving at a suitable and acceptable solution to a problem in relation to which I believe there will have to be a bit of give and take if a mutally satisfactory conclusion is to be reached, that is, the problem of fishing in the Torres Strait area. 
I think that those are all the matters that I wanted to raise in replying to the questions asked of me. I can only say that this is just one more decision - another issue - of which we must take note. We must remember that right on our shores is the emerging independent nation of Papua New Guinea. This is another piece of the legislation that will have to be passed by the Australian Government in recognising this emerging independent country. I believe that with sensible government by the 2 countries concerned we will in fact be able to evolve fully co-operative fishing laws and other laws that will enable the development of sound conservation principles in relation to the exploitation of the waters which lie adjacent to and between Papua New Guinea and northern Australia. I think all members of the Parliament will welcome this Bill, which will allow Papua New Guinea to be the complete master of its own fishing vessels. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the New South Wales Flood Relief Bill 1974, as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The principal objective of these 2 Bills is to provide money to the Queensland and New South Wales governments up to a total of S71.5m - S66m for Queensland and S5.5m for New South Wales. These moneys are not necessarily the final moneys. In fact in Queensland there are still some very large areas where estimates of the cost of restoring public assets such as roads and bridges cannot be made for the simple reason that these areas are still under water. I intend to concentrate my remarks on Queensland. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  will concentrate on Brisbane and Ipswich and I will cover the rest of the State. 
As we well know by now, the floods in Queensland have been a major catastrophe to this nation and a heartbreak to thousands of individual Australians, whether it be through financial or personal experience. Even now, as the floodwaters slowly recede from the devastated areas of northern Queensland, seasoned townspeople, primary producers and their workforce are still walking around in stunned disbelief. Nothing in Australia's recorded history has approached the ramifications of this disaster. Early in the new year the skies literally collapsed and dumped a cargo of destruction upon Queensland that even the oldest Australians have never seen before. Some areas received over 60 inches of rain in a month. My area has received over 80 inches of rain since 1 January. The magnitude of it, the way the rain fell, the velocity and the shortness of time in which it fell have left weather experts in some disbelief of the evidence. 
Across the great cattle breeding areas of the northern Gulf deep floodwaters covered an estimated 26,000 square miles - roughly the size of Tasmania. The land and the sea became one, and living creatures, wildlife included, had little chance of survival. Of course, Brisbane and Ipswich suffered swift and crippling damage. The nation's sympathy went out to the sufferers in many tangible forms. The Australian Government acknowledges also the many messages and offers of assistance from overseas governments and people in overseas countries. There is no doubt that the people of Brisbane and Ipswich were the hardest hit, but in terms of the national economy it is in the far north where the economic impact will be felt for many years to come. It is very natural that during the emotionalism of the tragedy that followed, the most difficult thing for anybody to do, particularly those affected, was to sit down and discuss the essential question of how we can avoid or lessen future devastations of this kind. With the great and testing battle of rehabilitation under way now the time has surely come for us to look at this whole spectre of this national disaster and ask ourselves this question. Obviously, if we are to salvage anything from the wreckage, which is costing the taxpayers of Australia a king's ransom, it has to be in the analysis of the disaster and the lessons that can be learnt from it. 
In comparison with many other world catastrophes it could be said that Australia has been a lucky country. We can be thankful that very few lives were lost when one compares our tragedy with the tornadoes in the United States of America, the floods in Brazil and the droughts in India and Africa. Certainly we have had droughts, bushfires, cyclones and floods before - all extremely damaging - but never have we suffered as much as we have in these recent devastating flood rains. For most of my life I have worked and travelled in the north of Australia. I travelled extensively through the north during the 2 months of this crisis. I travelled through the Gulf country, central and western Queensland and the Northern Territory. Many people who a few months ago had well established and healthy livelihoods, backed up by assets that would make any bank manager smile, are now bankrupt, facing bankruptcy or mentally ruined. In the great southern cities of Australia people are sympathetic but, in my opinion, they have not the faintest idea of the tragedy that has occurred in these areas. 
Let me give one example of a cattleman with a medium sized property in the Carpentaria shire, near Normanton which is a small town in the Gulf country. The man is in his sixties. In the pre-flood days he owned a successful cattle property of 150 square miles. After a lifetime of work, starting from nothing in the pioneering stage, he was almost out of debt. He planned to retire.  His  property and assets were worth over $lm. When I last saw him a couple of weeks ago, in the township of Normanton still surrounded by water, he told me that he had lost everything. He had lost 6,000 head of cattle, including all his breeders and calves.  His  machinery, his fences and his dams had been destroyed. No doubt, like so many of his neighbours, he faces a recovery situation that is even tougher than the challenge when he first went into the area. The tragedy of the situation is that this man asked me whether he could qualify for a pension. What can we do to help him? We can give him a $40,000 carry-on loan. What good is that to such a man? 
As the floods slowly recede - it will be months before the water is all gone - the sea of water becomes a sea of stinking mud. As I said, the land is less than its virgin worth. Sandflies, ticks, mosquitoes and buffalo fly have taken over many areas. I have mentioned just one case out of many. I know of scores of northern cattle producers who now have bankruptcy staring them in the face. The Australian Government is doing all it possibly can as a national Government. Indeed, apart from the $2m which the Queensland Government has contributed to the cost of this disaster, the Australian Government has picked up the tab for all the damage to public assets. It has arranged emergency relief grants and long term rehabilitation loans for graziers and businessmen. The final bill will exceed the entire total of national disaster commitments paid out by previous federal governments over a long period of years. 
The ferocity of the floods in these areas was incredible. Carcasses of cattle are hanging in trees 20 feet above ground level. Others are smashed against the wreckage of fences. Mobs of them were found swimming well out in the Gulf of Carpentaria, and of course they drowned. As one flew across the northern Gulf areas one found no indication of where the land began. It was simply a situation of one vast sea of water stretching for thousands of square miles. I have mentioned before that I actually saw waves 200 miles from the coast of Australia. Rivers, many miles apart, burst their banks and finally joined up in a mass of muddy destruction. 
The thriving prawning township of Karumba was literally carved apart. There, fast flowing deep creeks ran through the township where no creeks existed before and houses, cars, trucks, caravans and machinery completely disappeared. Of course, they , went into the Norman River and from there into the Gulf of Carpentaria. There were many stories of heroism and throughout several days and nights in Karumba men worked with heavy machinery to save as much as possible of the township. For example, several worked without sleep for days in a large bulldozer submerged to its floodlights and tottering under the force of currents, pushing debris, earth and mud across vantage, points trying to divert the fast flowing waters. Then, of course, there was another" tragedy. Incredible as it may seem, these places like Karumba were the target of looters. Whocould possibly imagine a town literally torn apart by flood waters having a problem with looters? But it happened in the north. The looters were having a field day looting shops and the houses of people suffering this misery. 
Even now it is difficult to assess the total damage of these floods and figures emerging are still only predictions. But they are predictions as dismal as the worst pessimism. Surveys in the Gulf Country suggest that cattle losses, most of which of course are breeding cows and calves, will be disastrous. This is the greatest blow ever suffered by the Australian cattle industry in the Gulf Country in Queensland. Tropical breeding stock in Australia is a precious and rare commodity and it could take anything up to 10 years to build a nucleus breeding herd again. Here is a situation where financial assistance does not automatically solve the problem. The question is: Where do these men, if they have any money, obtain the stock to rebuild their breeding establishments? Obviously, this is a challenge which will have to be faced and which is being faced by the cattle industry and by the Queensland and Australian Governments, lt will need a complete reorganisation of the industry to try to get these areas back into production as quickly as possible. In addition, no estimates can yet be made of the damage to structures such as fencing, water points, dams, yards and tick control points. In many areas, these are still under water. 
In the field of agriculture, of course, there have also been great, losses to crops such as cotton, tobacco, soya beans, lucerne, navy beans, rice and sugar. Estimates are still being prepared for these. Sheep losses are estimated by the Queensland Government to be around $10m. Roads and bridges throughout the northern part of Australia have taken a severe and costly battering and this damage undoubtedly will run into many millions of dollars. In fact, to give honourable members an idea of the widespread damage caused by these floods, I instance that over 100 shires at present are still estimating the losses incurred. Small shires such as Eyre have put in estimates of $250,000 of damage done to roads and bridges. Mining received major setbacks, particularly when the railway between Mount Isa and Townsville could not transport either coal to Mount Isa or the result of Mount Isa production to Townsville. Many parts of the railway line around Julia Creek and Richmond just disappeared. 
Earlier I mentioned what lessons we could learn from the disaster. One of the most frightening aspects to emerge has been the utter dependence of the north for its survival upon the south, for its food, fuel and essential materials. Here we had a situation where entire communities - indeed, townships of people - would have been starving had it not been for the emergency airlifts of food from the south by the Royal Australian Air Force. People were cut off by road and rail for weeks and, indeed, many are still cut off. Fortunately the RAAF, which did such an incredibly good job, has been able to land Hercules transports on airstrips like Mount Isa, Alice Springs and Darwin for the isolated communities serviced by feeder aircraft from those airports. But what would have happened if the airstrip had been damaged? What would have happened if we had not had such places where the Hercules could land? Of course, we would have had to drop food from the air? What a tragedy it would have been to have dropped food from the air through a wide expanse of the Northern Territory and through northern and western Queensland. So, the necessity of having good airports has been clearly demonstrated by this disaster. It is obvious that we must be much better prepared. By that, of course, I mean that governments, local authorities and communities themselves must be better prepared. 
As honourable members know, the Australian Government, in conjunction with State governments, is in the process of setting up a natural disaster organisation to rethink our entire operations in times of such emergencies. As the flood co-ordinating representative of the Australian Government, appointed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  along with the Premier of Queensland and the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Jones, I have had many meetings with all authorities con.rerned and we are in the process of formulating a plan - a workable scheme - under which we hope to have every town and city practiable in a better position to withstand these tragedies should they occur in the future. This committee has also streamlined payments to people in necessitous circumstances. There is no denying that at times there was confusion at the height of this tragedy and it still amazes me that the toll of life did not reach tragic proportions. The fact that it did not was due to the magnificent dedication and efforts of all concerned. Apart from a fully organised rescue force it is certain that special barge boats and, at the first warnings of cyclones and floods, helicopters, must be placed at strategic points in the north. 
I firmly believe that one of the areas that must be explored is the establishment of national disaster food storages in the Northern Territory and north Queensland which can be drawn upon at selected points throughout the north when emergency conditions apply. At the same time, however, we must have emergency storages in these areas of essential building materials, particularly wire, steel posts and iron. At present there is not even enough building material in the north to make even the most urgent repairs, let alone carry out the extensive work necessary in the next few years. There are many more matters to be investigated and the Australian Government is determined to follow these right through. For instance, I refer to questions about insurance policies and why insurance companies did not have a more widely known policy to cover damage from floods and why in fact the companies made an untested legal decision to differentiate between storm and tempest damage and flood damage. There are pertinent questions relating to city areas, particularly about why local authorities allowed developers to develop housing estates in flood prone areas. There are dozens of other questions to be gone, into as to the best way to spend State and Federal moneys to lessen disasters such as this. After all, if we are simply to repair the damage and. go back to yesterday, what is going to happen tomorrow? Will we have to do it all over again when the next floods come? For example, there is the problem of the Mount Isa railway. What is the point of putting back those sections that almost disappeared or that did disappear? It is far better to look at this properly and rebuild, even if it is going to cost the Australian Government more money. In fact, we are now looking at an improvement plan to try to prevent or minimise the effects of future disastrous floods. These are some of the areas that are being thoroughly explored because, rich as this nation is, it cannot stand too many repeats of disasters such as the 1974 floods. The amount of money that the Australian Government has given to the present time - something like $70m - is really only chicken feed compared to the actual cost to the nation when one adds the losses that have been incurred in these areas. 
Finally, I should like to pay a tribute to the defence forces, the police, the civil defence services, the people themselves and the Service organisations which for weeks and weeks toiled to help people. For instance, the RAAF worked tirelessly. To date, Hercules transports have flown 500 sorties lifting 300 people and 6,000,000 lb of freight. Caribou transports have flown well over 1,000 hours in 1,000 sorties, lifting 894 people and 2,500,000 lb of freight. Iroquois helicopters flew over 1,000 hours, rescuing in 2,103 sorties close to 3,000 people. In addition, helicopters lifted 80 medical vacuees and, as well, more than 30,000 bales of fodder were dropped to starving stock. The considerable efforts by both the Army and the Navy are still continuing, but they too will be very significant. It has been a mammoth and commendable effort. Hundreds of people sat desperately on roof-tops in pouring rain in the northern parts of Australia and in outback areas, fearful of losing their lives by drowning, but luckily for them RAAF helicopters and private helicopters were able to rescue them. 
If a tragedy of this kind happens again, this nation must be better prepared to cope with it. A mammoth tragedy of economic loss has resulted from the floods. This is the biggest loss that this nation has ever known. But we can be thankful that by good luck and good management, through the dedication of rescuers and the assistance given by the armed forces, a tragedy involving the loss of hundreds of lives was averted. We have to do everything possible in laying down policies and in other ways to ensure that if another tragedy as enormous as this one occurs, the effects will be minimised. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a  third  time. 
I understand that time is very limited. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  not I, introduced this Bill. However, I will undertake to obtain answers to most of the points that were raised by honourable members who took part in the debate. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  referred to the use of people in an advisory capacity. I inform him that we are constantly in touch not only with the types of people whom he has in mind but also people from cattlemen's organisations, railways, police and other State authorities in working out major plans for various areas in respect of restoration works and also plans for emergency situations in the event that something may happen in the immediate future. I will certainly take into account what he has said. 
The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  asked questions about unemployment benefits. We will look into this matter for him. I recall that early in 1966 when I first came into the Parliament - I am not certain who was the Minister for Social Services at that time; it may have been the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who is sitting at the table - I was able to secure for cane farmers unemployment benefits in a time of drought, particularly in the Gin Gin area where the crop was completely wiped out. I will look at the situation to see whether farmers are in similar circumstances now. The precedent for assistance is there. The cases will be looked at sympathetically. 
Questions were asked by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I have spoken to the honourable member for 
Herbert  (Mr Bonnet)  on this subject. The procedure with respect to the committee referred to is that when it reaches its conclusions we make the decision. I usually consult with the Treasurer. Up to the present time all anomalies have been ironed out satisfactorily between the State Government and the Australian Government in individual cases. I think it is fair to say that I am in almost daily touch with the Premier's Department in Queensland or other State departments in respect of cases which have been brought to my attention. These involve pensioners and widows. We take a very lenient view of these cases. There are many cases, as honourable members would know, of houses that have been undermined and blocks of land which are no longer viable as a result, directly or indirectly, of the floods. Although the criterion which is applied in determining the assistance to be given is rigid, when we look at individual cases we can arrive at a flexible arrangement. In relation to the questions asked about the flooded sugar areas in the north, with a consequent loss of top soil and a subsidence of land, each case is looked at on its merits. For example, one case concerns a new bridge in the Burdekin area. It has caused very serious erosion and an undermining of a sugar farm near the bridge. We will have to look very closely at the question of the approaches to the bridge or even replacing some parts of the design in an endeavour to overcome the problems of subsidence and the loss of topsoil. 
In regard to submergence cases, usually the criterion applied relates to a decision based on estimates for repairs to bridges and roads. Again, this is flexible in the sense that a house or a property on the side of a hill will never be submerged. However, if it can be proved that a building block is not viable because of flooding which causes the valley below to be submerged, such a case is looked at sympathetically. I can assure honourable members that all these cases are looked at constructively. If we believe that there is a sound logical case for assistance, it will be given. I know of no differences of opinion between the Queensland Government and the Australian Government in this area. I think there has been full co-operation in regard to these cases. 
At the present time the question of moving a number of houses in areas which are flood prone is being looked into. The study is being made by a technical committee consisting of  Mr Lansdowne,  the Head of the Department of Urban and Regional Development, the Chief Engineer of the Brisbane City Council, and the Queensland Co-ordinator General. This case will be submitted to the Government at a later stage when more details are available. I can say to honourable members that the Government is conscious that improvement factors will have to be taken into consideration. After all, there is little point in replacing a single-lane bridge when obviously a doublelane bridge is required. There is little point in replacing a 12-inch main whichhas caused a drainage problem when a 2-foot main is needed to rectify the problem. These cases are being looked at and, even if it means that the Australian Government will be up for more money, loans could be made available to the authorities. These cases will be looked at on their merits when approaches are made to the Australian Government by the Queensland Government. I may have missed some of the points raised in the debate. I will look tomorrow at the speeches and I will reply in writing to those points Ihave missed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Western Australian Government has asked for an increased amount of surveillance off the north-west coast of Western Australia. It is a fact that there has certainly been an increase in the number of foreign fishing vessels operating in that area. These vessels operate principally from 2 countries - Indonesia and Taiwan. We understand that approximately 100 ships are operating from Indonesia and about 300 ships are operating from Taiwan. There is nothing illegal about these operations because the ships are well off the coast in the Monte Bello Islands area. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has been having a close look at the position and it is in contact with the Indonesian Embassy. However, when such a number of ships are operating in fishing waters off the Australian coast there is the possibility of an exotic disease host coming into the country. The Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy are watching the position very closely as are, of course, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Health and other associated departments. I can assure the honourable member that his concern is well understood by the Australian Government which does not want to see any exotic disease brought into the remote areas of northern Australia. But at the present time the position is quite safe and there are no problems. As I have pointed out, there is nothing illegal in the present operations. 
As the honourable member knows, preferential rates of interest have been available to primary producers for a long time. As he also knows, the question of interest rates for rural reconstruction, for carry-on loans, for amalgamations and other financial assistance available under the various rural assistance Acts is a matter for the Minister for Agriculture or the Treasurer. I will endeavour to get for the honourable member specific details with respect to the wheat industry and the meat industry about which he asked and will give him a written reply. 
For the information of honourable members I present a paper entitled 'Rural Policy in Australia' which was prepared by a working group commissioned by the Prime Minister on 14 December 1973. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  third time. 
Rarely have I listened to such hypocrisy in this House. 
If my memory is right, 1 understand from the assurance given by the Minister for Agriculture that borrowings of about $34m by the Australian Wool Corporation had been guaranteed, if needed. This is additional to the $13m which is held in trust and to which, of course, the Wool Corporation has access, plus any cash surplus which it also has. I assume that the honourable member has asked this question because of the increased buying by the Corporation, particularly yesterday. I can tell the honourable member that the Government is concerned about the increase in buying and the fluctuation in price. Apparently there are quite a number of reasons for this which are being looked at very thoroughly. The 130,000 bales that it is hoped will be sold this week are, as the honourable member would know, bales of wool which it was hoped would be disposed of in the last season which ended on 30 June. There has been a lot of industrial unrest on the waterfront. There is still industrial unrest on the Sydney waterfront. At the same time the approaching holiday season on the Continent apparently has an effect on woolbuying I assure the honourable member that all these causes - if they are causes - are being studied carefully. 
I think I am right in saying that next Thursday discussions will be held between officials of the Department of Agriculture and the Treasury and  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation. That meeting will be followed by a meeting between the Treasurer, the Minister for Agriculture and, I would think, also  Mr Maiden,  in an endeavour to find out as soon as possible the reasons for the fluctuations in wool prices. I give the honourable member an assurance that the Government is fully behind the Wool Corporation and the principles it is following. There is no problem in that respect. We have to find out what is causing the changing conditions. As far as I know, they are difficult to explain unless, as I suggested, they are related to industrial unrest and conditions on the Continent. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Egg Export Control Act 1947-1966, I present the twenty-sixth annual report of the Australian Egg Board on the operation of the Act for the year ending 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 25 September 1973. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Dried Fruits Research Act 1971, 1 present the second annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924-1972 and the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Act 1958-1972, I present the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. An interim report of the Board was presented to the House on 26 September 1973. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Pig Industry Research Act 1971, I present the second annual report of the Australian Pig Industry Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Chicken Meat Research Act 1969, I present the fourth annual report of the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973. An interim report of the Committee was presented to the House on 17 October 1973. 
Pursuant to section 26 of the Tobacco Marketing Act 1965-1973, I present the eighth annual report of the Australian Tobacco Board regarding the operation of the Act for the year ended 31 December 1973, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 I want to comment briefly on the remarks made by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  It is a fact, of course, that yesterday and today there has been significant buying of wool by the Australian Wool Corporation. The buying has been far greater than anyone would have expected. Yesterday the figure was just under 60 per cent and today it will possibly be just over 60 per cent of the wool offered. As I said this morning in answer to a question, the basic facts are these: Approximately 1 30,000 bales of wool were not disposed of in the season which has just been completed. This was due to a number of factors. One of them, of course, was the consistent industrial unrest on the major wharves in Sydney. This has affected the disposal of wool. Obviously this has caused buyer resistance and has created problems in auction sales. The wool sales this week happened to coincide with a lull in the number of buyers operating on the floor. It also coincided with holidays on the Continent. This factor has, I am told, a marked effect on the number of buyers operating under the auction system in Australia. These variables, together with continuing industrial unrest on the wharves, I think, have caused this problem with regard to wool sales. 
The basic question asked by the honourable member for Gwydir concerned a rumour in the wool industry that the Government might not back the Corporation in terms of its buying policy and commercial judgment. I can assure the honourable member for Gwydir that certainly, as a member of the Cabinet, I have heard of no direction - or certainly of no decision - taken by anyone to this effect. I can assure him that the Government is standing behind the Wool Corporation. The decision of the Wool Corporation as to where it is to put the peg in is a matter for its own judgment. We can only depend on the best brains in the Corporation who are skilled in wool marketing and buying to make the right decision. But, as regards this week, the Government will be backing the Wool Corporation. No decision has been made - and there is no hint - that these sales will be cancelled for the rest of the week. 
These sales will go on and the Government certainly will back the commercial judgment of the Wool Corporation as to where it puts its peg in and the proportion of wool that it buys in order to stabilise the wool industry in Australia in the interests of the industry. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish a fully elected Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory consisting of 19 members to replace the present Legislative Council comprised of 1 1 elected members and 6 official members. The measure represents a major step forward in the constitutional development of the Northern Territory in conformity with Labor policy announced prior to the 1972 elections. The overwhelming weight of evidence so far presented to the joint committee of the Parliament on the Northern Territory favours a legislature of 19 to 25 members. The elected members of the Legislative Council unanimously favour a Legislative Assembly of 19 members. The Government supports their view that this would provide a workable legislature. 
The Bill also provides for certain consequential amendments. The most important of these are: Clause 1 2 (a) provides for the Administrator's Council (an essentially advisory body to the Administrator) to consist of 5 members of the proposed legislative assembly. At present the Administrator's Council consists of 2 official members and 3 elected members; and clause 16 provides, inter alia, for the continuation of ordinances in force at the time the Legislative Assembly is constituted. 
Elections must be held in the Northern Territory before 24 October next. Recent events affecting the operation of this Parliament have made it necessary for the Government to proceed with this Bill as a matter of priority in these sittings so that elections might be held on that date and the Government's undertaking to give the people of the Northern Territory a fully elected legislature by the end of this year, might be kept. When the new Assembly takes office discussions will be held with the members of that body concerning future government of the Northern Territory. It is hoped that those discussions will be able to take place with the advantage of having by then a report from the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill  be now read  a  second  time. 
This measure was originally presented to Parliament in March of this year and, although approved by this House, it failed to complete passage through the Senate before the Parliament was dissolved. It is therefore necessary to re-introduce it. The background and provisions of the Bill were explained to the House in detail last March. Briefly, the Bill seeks to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972-73 to provide for the financing of the projected wool research and promotion programs and of the marketing administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation during the 3 years commencing in July 1974. In addition, the Bill provides for the continuation of the existing arrangements for apportionment of funds available for research and promotion respectively. 
As at present, wool research and promotion will be financed jointly by wool growers and the Government while marketing administration will be funded entirely by the industry. Opportunity is being taken to seek removal from the principal Act of provisions for an interim chairman which have become redundant. Amendments have been included in recognition of relevant provisions of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 which relate to the remuneration of statutory office holders. The funding arrangements for wool research and promotion terminated on 30 June last. It is essential therefore that this legislation be enacted as early as possible. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and the 2 complementary Bills, the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1974 and the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Bill 1974, provide for the implementation of a wheat industry stabilisation plan in respect of the 5 seasons beginning 1 October 1974 and for the continuing operation of the Australian Wheat Board as the sole marketing authority for wheat in Australia and for wheat and wheat products exported from Australia. As is the case with the existing plan, the Board's marketing powers will extend for 2 seasons beyond the duration of the stabilisation plan. This will enable continuity of the Board's operations to be maintained. It is necessary for complementary legislation to be enacted by each of the States as some aspects of the arrangements, in particular, the vesting of the ownership of wheat in the hands of the Board, the implementation of any wheat delivery quotas and the marketing of wheat within the State of production, rely on State law for their operation. 
Honourable members will recall that the previous wheat stabilisation plan, originally due to expire in 1972-73, was extended for one year, to cover the marketing of wheat of the 1973-74 season, pending review of the arrangements by the Government. Resulting from this review, the Government concluded that there should be a major revision of the existing stabilisation arrangements. In particular, we reached the position that the provision of a guaranteed price for a specific quantity of exports, with the price being adjusted according to certain cost movements from year to year, was not conducive to maximum efficiency in the wheat industry. 
The basic aims of the proposed plan, which has been accepted by the wheat industry organisation - the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation - and the State governments, are reflected in this Bill and the complementary Bills. They are to give the industry some security against price fluctuation without distorting the underlying trend in market prices and without providing an unduly large and very often, unpredictable, net contribution by the Government to the industry over the period of the plan. 
The agreed plan sets out to achieve these aims by, firstly, abandoning the concept of guaranteed price' and replacing it with a stabilisation price' related to movements in the international wheat market; secondly, cushioning sharp changes in export prices by moving the stabilisation price gradually into line with market prices; thirdly, providing definite limits to the extent to which the Government can be called upon to underwrite the plan; and, fourthly, providing a mechanism which could reasonably be expected to continue to operate indefinitely and not to require frequent renegotiation although periodic review and new legislation would be necessary. 
It was the Government's intention to introduce this legislation with the aim of having it passed by the Parliament by 30 June 1974 and thus avoid a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. It was not possible to keep to this timetable because of delays in obtaining the agreement of all the States to the plan and the intervention of the double dissolution of Parliament. However, the Government considers that it is neither practical nor desirable at this point of time to refer the plan to the Commission. The recital to the Bill sets out the special circumstances and provides for a special exemption from reference of the plan to the Commission. 
The main features of the stabilisation proposals in this Bill and the complementary Wheat Export Charge Bill 1974 are as follows: 
Stabilisation Price 
This is to be set for the 1974-75 season at S73.49 per tonne f.o.b. or S2 per bushel, and adjusted for each of the next 4 succeeding seasons by the application of the formula set out in sub-clause 29 (5) of the Bill. Subject to the financial limits which I will indicate, the stabilisation price will apply to all wheat exports of a season. Under all previous plans there was a limit placed on the quantity of exports in any season which would qualify for a guaranteed floor price. 
Average Export Price 
This is the average price, f.o.b. equivalent, contracted to be paid for all exported wheat. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As is the case with the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1974, this Bill is complementary to the 
Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1974. One of the powers granted to the Australian Wheat Board under the Stabilisation Bill is the power to pay to exporters of wheat products an amount equal to the difference between the home consumption price at which the exporter has purchased the wheat content of the manufactured products, and the ruling export price of wheat. Where the export price is less than the domestic price this ensures that exporters of wheat products are not put at a competitive disadvantage by having to pay higher than world prices for their wheat requirements. 
This Bill authorises the Board to require exporters of wheat products to pay to the Board the difference between the export price and the home consumption price when the reverse situation applies and the export price is higher than the home consumption price. These special arrangements are necessary because at the time the wheat is sold to the manufacturer, it is not possible to determine what portion, if any, of the wheat will eventually be exported. The arrangements ensure that the manufacturer does not make a profit or loss by reason of purchasing the wheat at the home consumption price. He is in fact put in the position of having purchased the wheat at the export price. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second time. 
This Bill, in association with the provisions of clause 30 of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1974, gives effect to a long-standing principle of the wheat industry stabilisation arrangements. This is that growers will contribute to a Wheat Prices Stabilisation Fund part of their proceeds from export sales of wheat when those proceeds are higher than the guaranteed floor price (in this plan called the 'stabilisation price'). In turn, growers will withdraw moneys from the Stabilisation Fund when export realisations are less than the stabilisation price, with the Australian Government providing moneys from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to meet the payments required should the Stabilisation Fund not be in a position to meet the demands on it. 
The Bill provides that, subject to the average export price, at f.o.b. level, of wheat and wheat products of a season covered by the Plan exceeding the stabilisation price set for the season and also exceeding $55.12 per tonne ($1.50 per bushel), growers will make contributions to the Stabilisation Fund. These will be by way of levy or charge on exports with the maximum payment in any season being $30m or $5.51 (15 cents per bushel) whichever is the lower, but again subject to a proviso that after payment of the levy, the average export realisation will not he less than $55.12 per tonne. The rale of charge, if any, for a season will be determined and paid following the declaration by the Minister of the average export price of wheat and wheat products of that season, under the provisions of clause 29 of the Stabilisation Bill. 
Since, under the terms of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill and the complementary legislation which will be enacted by the States, the ownership of all wheat removed from farms will continue to be vested in the Australian Wheat Board for sale by it, the Board is being made responsible for the payment of the charge. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
If I had a head like that of the honourable member I would be one.  Mr Speaker,  as I understand the position, the Australian Government has agreed to provide up to $500,000 to the States to overcome the problems of the plague locust. There are 3 basic types of locust: There is the plague locust, and there is the spur-throated locust. I think that the honourable member for Kennedy knows what the spurthroated locust is. It has a peculiar shell type throat. There is also the migratory locust. Up to the present time financial assistance has been confined to the plague locust. Apparently that locust is prevalent throughout Australia. The spur-throated locust is confined mainly to the tropical areas - to Queensland and, I would think, also to some parts of northern New South Wales. The migratory locust is not as prevalent as the other two. As the honourable member for Maranoa knows, the Australian Government has already provided a lot of assistance to the Queensland Government with respect to the spur-throated locust. About 140 Army personnel have been in action and about 40 spray units and a large number of vehicles have been made available. This assistance has earned the thanks of the Queensland Government. 
I am fully aware of some of the problems in central Queensland as well as in other parts of Queensland. Already there have been sightings of egg beds. The insects could thrive if the weather is conducive to hatching. As far as I know, up to a few days ago there had been no approach by the Queensland Government to the Australian Government to have this matter treated as a disaster in the same way as plagues, floods, droughts, cyclones or whatever the disaster might be. The Minister for Agriculture, in conjunction with other Ministers, is looking at this problem of extending the activities of the suggested Australian Plague Locust Commission; but as honourable members know, that is with respect to one species only, namely the plague locust, which is principally on a national basis. I suggest that the Queensland Premier or the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries approach the Minister for Agriculture in the Australian Government, particularly if it is expected that there will be a further disaster, to get specific help under the various conditions that are laid down between the Australian Government and the States for disaster help. 
I am not aware of the specific allegations that the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party has made but I can assure him and you,  Mr Speaker,  that I have the utmost confidence in the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, and I am quite certain that anything he said he would have backed with facts. 
 I present the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill 1974. 
I move: That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to extend to 30 June 1976 the operation of the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Act 1970, which will otherwise expire on 26 July; and to provide legislative authority for a substantial part of the dairy industry adjustment program announced by the Government on 8 April. Our earlier commitment to such a program was confirmed in the Labor Party Rural Policy Speech delivered at Goulburn on 1 May 1974, as follows: 
The announced program comprises 3 elements: First, a continuation and broadening of the Marginal Dairy Farms Reconstruction Scheme; 
Second, the provision of interest free loans with flexible repayment periods, to assist the changeover of producers to refrigerated bulk milk supply, with concurrent assistance as necessary to factories; 
Third, relocation assistance for displaced dairy farmers and displaced factory workers. 
The present Bill comprehends those elements of the program which can be brought into effect within the context and spirit of agreements made with the States under the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Act. A further Bill in the Budget session will provide for elements not included in the present Bill, principally the provision of assistance to factories. For reasons explained in the preamble, the assistance to be provided under the 2-year adjustment program from 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1976 will be exempted from the need for reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. In essence we believe the national interest requires that reconstruction already commenced should not be interrupted and that legislation for extending the adjustment process in accordance with announced policies should be proceeded with without delay. The question of Government assistance to the dairy industry after 30 June 1976 has already been referred for inquiry and report by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I turn now to the details of the Bill. The 1970 Act defined a marginal dairy farm so that the operation of the scheme was concerned predominantly with small scale dairy farmers supplying the manufacturing sector of the industry. The present Bill extends eligibility to marginal dairy farms in the market milk sector. It also maintains the authority for assistance for amalgamation of marginal dairy farm land and considerably develops and strengthens the existing arrangements. The new features, included in clause 4 of the Bill, are as follows. Provision is made for direct conveyancing in the amalgamation of land, thereby overcoming a mechanical difficulty that has caused delay in the completion of transfers of land under the scheme in certain States. Authority is also conferred to enable the writing-off of redundant assets on the home property. Previously the writing-off was confined to assets on the acquired property only. The arrangement now proposed will permit the farmer to make the best use of the structural improvements irrespective of where they are located. 
Authority is provided to enable interest free loans to be made to dairy farmers so that they can purchase and install vats and make such other improvements on the farm as required to enable them to supply refrigerated bulk milk. The installation may necessitate such things as modification to the dairy, connection or alteration to electricity supply to the dairy, changes to water supply and so on. Such modifications related to the installation of a refrigerated milk vat would be eligible for interest free assistance. Improvement in the access road on-farm to enable the bulk milk tanker to collect the refrigerated milk would also be eligible for this type of loan where, in the opinion of the State authority, such improvement is warranted. Marginal farmers who supply milk in cans or whose vats are only water cooled will also be able to apply to convert to refrigerated bulk milk supply. The interest free loans will also be available to those who borrowed to install their vats on or after 23 July 1973. This date marked the announcement of the decision by the Government that bounty was to be phased out and replaced by enhanced assistance for adjustment. For grant of interest free loans only one test is to be applied: Will the producer have reasonable prospects of economic viability after assistance? If he lacks the prospect of viability, then it would be pointless to make assistance available to him out of public funds. Producers who would not be able to become economic will be eligible for relocation assistance, about which I will speak in a moment. 
The Bill goes on to provide authority to enable the development of a marginal dairy farm into an economic unit including provision for carry-on loans during the period of development. These forms of assistance were not available under the 1970 Act. The Bill also strengthens the provisions for encouraging diversification. Where a marginal dairy farm is being converted in whole or part to rural uses other than dairying, loans will be available for the purchase of additional land, for making structural improvements, for buying livestock or equipment and for carry-on purposes during the period of conversion, and grants will be available for the writing-off of milking plant, bails and so on that would cease to be needed under the new form of land use. The Bill also develops the present scheme by providing for finance to enable the incoming producer, after amalgamation, to develop more readily the full potential of the enlarged property. The present Bill make provision for loans again for structural improvements, purchase of livestock and equipment and for carry-on loans during the development period after amalgamation. These forms of assistance for development and diversification will be subject to the test that the State authority would have to be satisfied that the person to be assisted has been unable to obtain a loan on reasonable terms from normal financial sources. 
The Government has also given further .consideration to the welfare of those who will be leaving the industry. The Bill provides that out-going marginal dairy farmers can be accorded relocation assistance. It is intended that such assistance will be of a range and to an extent similar to that accorded to other out-going rural producers under the general rural reconstruction scheme. Of the $25m provided for use as needed under the original marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme, some $15m has been expended to date. The Bill therefore provides for anticipated expenditure under the expanded dairy adjustment program by adding $28m to the amount already spent. However, because all of the money which could have been made available under the earlier scheme was not used and because of the difficulty in putting a firm figure on a scheme which involves voluntary participation, the Government is prepared to consider provision of further moneys if necessary after agreement between the Minister for Agriculture and the Treasurer. 
I am pleased to acknowledge the assistance received from State Government authorities and from industry organisations in the considerations which led to the development of the present scheme. The States have been associated with the administration of the existing arrangements since their inception and the Bill provides for the continuation of this association under arrangements to be made by agreement with each State. Arrangements for consultation with them to make the necessary revisions to existing agreements are well in hand. It must be recognised that no single program will solve all of the problems being faced by this important industry in the rural sector. There should also be a ready acceptance that planning for its future is primarily the responsibility of the industry itself, but with support as appropriate from governments both Federal and State. 
The program I have outlined represents the Australian Government's contribution aimed at encouraging natural adjustment already under way within the industry. It seeks to make a direct attack on industry problems. In particular, the aim is to consolidate at a reasonable income level those who remain in dairying, whilst giving encouragement to low income producers who wish to do so to move out. It encourages diversification of less suitable dairying land into other uses and makes a direct contribution to the problems of cream suppliers. The total program will provide appropriately for necessary aid to factories where this is necessary in association with supplier changeover to refrigerated bulk milk delivery, and will give assistance to displaced factory workers so that they are treated equitably in relation to displaced producers. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
I should like to thank honourable members for the constructive thoughts that they have put forward with respect to this most important matter. I listened carefully to the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I can assure him that I appreciate the problems which he has mentioned. On the other hand, I think that the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory can bring forward, even if it may not be in 6 months time or less, a report on the rather extensive terms of reference referred to it. It will take a long time to carry out this process of giving self-government to the Northern Territory. The report will be in time. I believe that the recommendations and conclusions that the Committee reaches will be of great benefit to those making decisions. 
However, I should like to deal with some of the points made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  most of whose comments, in my opinion, were destructive. Firstly, he said that the Bill to provide for a fully elected Legislative Assembly of 19 members has in fact taken away the value of the Committee. Self-government for the Territory is only one aspect into which the Committee inquires. There are quite a number of terms of reference to the Committee, as the honourable member for Wakefield has said. I think the most remarkable criticism by the honourable member for the Northern Territory is that the Government and I have rushed this Bill through. I say very clearly to him that every action that I have taken with respect to the time-table for the establishment of the new Legislative Assembly has been taken in full consultation and co-operation with the present elected members of the Legislative Council. I have worked with them. I have consulted them. 
I listened to the honourable member in silence. I have consulted the Legislative Councillors and they have agreed unanimously with what I have done - every member of the Legislative Council, from all political parties. The honourable member for the Northern Territory does not seem to understand that there is a time-table. I have no alternative, as I was caught in a cleft stick, as the honourable member for Wakefield said. I have no alternative. If I am to honour the promise, the policy of the Labor Government I have to take positive action. I discussed the proposal with members of the Legislative Council. I asked them whether they were prepared to extend their terms of office until the Committee reaches some conclusions. This may be in 3, 6 or 12 months. They deliberated on this question and to a man and to a woman they said that in no circumstances would they agree to any significant extension of their term of office, and that they were elected by the people of the Northern Territory for 3 years. 
I can assure the honourable member that when I discussed the matter with them they may have agreed to an extension for a few weeks or two or three months at the very most. But they would not agree to any substantial or significant extension of their terms of office, and the honourable member knows that is right. 
Who told the Committee that? 
Obviously, whomever the honourable member is referring to, I was told something different. The members of the Legislative Council themselves told me they were not prepared to have a significant extension, which may have been 3, 6, 9 or 12 months. Quite frankly they said that it would be deceit on their part to accept such an extension. That is perfectly true. They were elected for 3 years and 3 years only. If we had another election in the circumstances of the 1 1 elected members it would make quite a farce of the situation. The members deliberated and agreed that they wanted to achieve a fully elected Legislative Assembly by the end of the year. They talked of 24 October as the date for elections to be held under the Northern Territory ordinance. This planning of course involved a lot of splitsecond timing. Commissioners have to be appointed to work out the boundaries of the 19 electorates. The passing of this Bill through both Houses of this Parliament means that when the boundaries have been established and when the reports of the Commissioners have been made they will have to lie on the table for a certain time for objection and so forth. It is a matter of clockwork, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory ought to know. That is why I had to treat the introduction of this Bill as a matter of priority. But I do not believe for one minute that this will prove to be a retrograde step. 
I said that I had hoped - I use the word 'hoped' - that the Committee would bring out its report in time for us to discuss the next steps with the members of the Legislative Assembly. But even if the report is later than that it will still be of immense value, in my opinion. As I said before, I am discussing; there is an exchange of views between the members of the Legislative Council, myself and others as to the best way of handling the question. 
As the honourable member for Wakefield said, it is an extremely delicate and complex situation. I believe one has to crawl before one walks in this matter, and that is what we are doing. But I can say that every step that I am taking is taken in full consultation and co-operation with the organisations in the Northern Territory and the Legislative Council. 
I want a fully considered report. I want to say something about the allegations of the honourable member for the Northern Territory about politics. T know nothing about this, or of who may have brought politics into it, or of any abuse of evidence. I have the greatest respect for and confidence in the  Chairman  of the Committee. I have the greatest respect for and confidence in the former  Chairman  of this Committee. I have received reports from members of the former Committee and people and organisations in the Northern Territory about the impartial way in which the former  Chairman  of the Committee conducted his investigatiions.  In view of the fact that the honourable member for the Northern Territory raised the matter of Senate representation, I say to him that I am not concerned with what he as an individual thinks about Senate representations for the Northern Territory.  His  Party, the Country Party, is bitterly opposed to giving the people of the Northern Territory a voice in the Senate. As far as I am concerned it is a scandalous situation. It is no good the honourable member for the Northern Territory saying, as a member of this House, that he is in favour of giving the people of the Northern Territory a vote in the Senate when his Party is opposed to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Government rejects the censure motion, in that it is nothing more than a grandstanding stunt by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  It is a desperate grandstanding effort with the sole objective of attempting to divert the focus of attention which is being dramatically directed at the activities of the Australian Wool Corporation over what has been described by a growing number of authoritative sources as last week's wool selling fiasco - a fiasco which has resulted in the expenditure of SI 6m of public funds, taxpayers' funds, by the Wool Corporation, by actions which must now be seriously questioned by the Australian Government. There is no doubt that the responsibility for the farce of last week's wool sales must be completely borne by the Corporation. 
Last week's sales have caused serious damage to the reputation of the wool industry, and they could have a significant effect on the future level of wool prices. When I answered questions by the Country Party members early last week as to the Government's attitude to the Australian Wool Corporation's policy of allowing sales of approximately 130,000 bales of wool last week, and buying it at a rate of around 60 per cent of total offerings, the answers I gave were given in good faith, because I was unaware - unaware - at that time of the odium which was to be later exposed by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  1 stated that the Government would back the commercial judgment of the Australian Wool Corporation, because I believed that the Corporation had been acting within guidelines agreed to between the Government and the Corporation. I also believed at the time that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  had been consulted. I found that both of these assumptions were incorrect. I also believed at the time that members of the Corporation solidly supported to a man the decision to hold the wool sales in the best interests of the wool industry. I found this assumption to be incorrect. 
Personally, I found it incredible that wool sales were being held in Australia in July at a time when wool buyers were never active. They are known to be openly and traditionally opposed to July sales. The sales were also being held at a time which coincided with the holiday period on the Continent, which of course has a significant effect on wool selling activities.. But as I believed the Wool Corporation to be completely above board in its deliberations and that it had operated within the guidelines of Government policy and in the best interests of the wool industry and the nation, 1 had no alternative but to give the Government's support to the Corporation, ;ind this I did. Subsequently I listened to the exposure by the honourable member for EdenMonaro of the evidence which he has received. The more one delves into this sordid business the more highly suspicious become the circumstances and the motives of last week's wool sales conducted by the Wool Corporation. 1 regret also to say that the more highly suspicious become the activities and motives of some members of the Australian Wool Corporation who are in a position to influence and even to determine the policies and decisions of the Wool Corporation. There is a very bad smell developing around the activities of the Corporation. I am afraid this smell is going to get worse. 
Let me refresh honourab'e members' minds with the history of the appointment of members of the Australian Wool Corporation. Just prior to the 1972 federal elections, when it became obvious that the Liberal-Country Party coalition would fall, the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England, in his capacity as Minister for Primary Industry, performed an act which was completely inexcusable. It. was politically dishonest. Just prior lo this vital election, which saw the annihilation of the Liberal-Country Party Government, this Minister appointed the members of the Wool Corporation, which is the most powerful industry executive in Australia, be it primary or secondary industry. It was a shocking act of political dishonesty. The appointment as  Chairman  of the Corporation of  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden was not unexpected. As far as I know, he has been a public servant without any political bias whatsoever. I have, known him for 25 years and 1 respect him. But he is the  Chairman  only. The appointment by the then  Deputy  Leader of the Country Parly of  Mr S.  S. Nevile as  Deputy Chairman  was also made just prior to the federal election.  Mr Nevile  is known to be anti the Australian Labor Party. He is, of course, entitled to his views. He has opposed for years the technical marketing innovations and reforms frequently put forward by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. Just prior to that, federal election,  Mr D.  J. Asimus was appointed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. He was and probably still is a member of the Country Party. I am informed that he stood for the Country Party against the Labor Party for the State seat of Burrinjuck and he carried out a most vicious campaign. 
I am informed that he stood for the Country Party against the Labor Party for the seat of Burrinjuck- 
... and he carried out a most vicious campaign against the Labor Party. (Opposition supporters interjecting) - 
No wonder leaders of the Country Party-- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the honourable member for Gippsland be suspended from the service of the House. 
I also have received telegrams from many people in that area regarding beef roads. In answer to the honourable member's first question, let me say that the road between Laura and Coen has never at any stage been a beef road. The road between Mareeba and Laura was declared a beef road and something like $3m was spent on it over the last few years. As to the second part of the honourable member's question, the beef road from Mun.gana to Wrotham Park is, of course, as the honourable member well knows, a most important link in the bottom part of the Peninsula. It is extremely important to the very large holdings around Wrotham Park as well as to the holdings on the shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria, such as Koolatah, Dunbar and so forth. It was part of the previous beef roads scheme and it is also part of the beef roads scheme that is proposed for the next 3 years. It has been estimated that approximately $3m will be spent on that very important Peninsula road. That will allow the progeny of breeding cattle to come out of that area into the eastern coastal country and also allow some of the fat cows and so on to be moved to the meat works at Queerah. 
Yesterday the Minister for Transport answered a question on this subject in no uncertain terms. He expressed his view, and it is the view of the Government. In relation to the other aspects of the question, I will take them up with the Minister for Agriculture. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Wheat Research Act 1957 I present the sixteenth annual report on activities under the Act for the year ended 31 December 1973. 
in reply - I thank the House for the general support expressed for the principles of the Bill. The various criticisms that have been made, most of which I believe were made in good faith, will certainly be taken into account. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  asked: 'Why is it necessary to hold an election for the Northern Territory legislature before the end of the year?' The answer, of course, is a simple one. The Northern Territory (Administration) Act requires that an election be held no later than 3 years after the last preceding election. This means that the election must take place before 24 October 1974. In 'addition to that the majority - I stress the word 'majority' because apparently the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  believes that there are some members now in the Northern Territory Legislative Council who do not hold this view - of the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council to whom I spoke, and I spoke to the great majority of them at length, made it very clear to me that in no circumstances would they agree to an extension of this 3-year period. 
I acted in good faith on the undertaking given to me by the members of the Legislative Council. If some of them have changed their minds, why have they not let me know? Why have they not written to the Government? Why have they gone through the honourable member for the Northern Territory? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Because what was said was said in a rather heated exchange,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask for your indulgence. Would you ask the honourable member for the Northern Territory whether he would like to withdraw? 
It must also be pointed out that if there is to be &gt;a change in the 3- year term of members of the Legislative Council there must be an amendment to the parent Act. Given the advice by the Legislative Council - what the elected members wanted - I acted in good faith. I can assure the honourable member for the Northern Territory that I will certainly make it. my business to find out which members of the Legislative Council now have gone back on their word. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has mentioned one of them. I will find out exactly what  Mrs Lawrie  said. She is in contact with me from time to time. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has said that they have gone back on their word. Quite frankly, I do not believe it and I shall find out the truth as soon as I leave this chamber. 
The honourable member for Kennedy raised the question whether the members of the Administrator's Council would constitute the Executive in the future Northern Territory constitutional development. He also asked about the powers that would be transferred to the new Assembly. When I became Minister for the Northern Territory one of the first things that I did was to sit down with as many members of the Legislative Council as I could. I asked them about their priorities in the constitutional field. Without question, without any shadow of doubt, their number one priority was to get what they had been striving for for a very long time - a fully elected Legislative Assembly. The suggestion was made to me by lawyer members in the Legislative Council that we should go slowly, that the first step should be to get the fully elected Legislative Council. They said that we should go slowly and tread our way carefully as to the question of executive powers. That is what we are doing. They did not believe it was right that the present members should be the ones to negotiate the constitutional reform in the Northern Territory from the point of view of the electors of the Northern Territory. 
They wanted to wait until the new Legislative Assembly was formed and then to sit down with me and others to work it out. I accepted their view, but according to the honourable member for the Northern Territory that is not what they want now. There is a double standard somewhere and I will certainly find out where it is. I am in constant contact with members of the Legislative Council and I have not had that view from them. 
I know what the majority wants. The honourable member for Kennedy asked why the Redistribution Committee was appointed in such a sneaky manner. What was sneaky about it? The views of the Government were made clear publicly. A Press statement was issued after full consultation with members of the Legislative Council in respect of appointment of the Redistribution Committee. We knew full well that the Redistribution Committee as regards the 19 electorates could not in fact function unless this Bill became law. We knew that. Did the honourable member for Kennedy want me to wait until this Bill has gone through the Senate before I appointed the redistribution commissioners? If the honourable member looks at the timetable he will see that that would be completely unacceptable to the Legislative Council. We would not then be able to fulfil what the current members of the Legislative Council want. We just could not do it within the time. 
How could I, until the Bill has gone through the House? The Bill has to go through the Senate. The honourable member knows full well that the redistribution has to be made public. 
Then there will be any objections that are necessary. 
We have not redistributed. Redistribution has to be acceptable by law. 
 I suggest that the honourable member examine the redistribution machinery. I thought that he would know it. 
I want now to deal with some of the points made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. The honourable member supports the Bill and then goes on to condemn it. We saw his performance in this House when we were debating the measure to provide Senate representation for the Northern Territory. He did the same thing then. He says he supports Senate representation for the Northern Territory but his own party - the Country Party - is bitterly opposed to it. On that occasion did he divide the House to show where he stood on the issue? Of course not. 
He cannot take it. Now we have the same situation. The honourable member condemns the Bill and yet supports it. When it comes to a vote let him divide the House, condemn the Bill and vote against it. Of course he will not. He will support the Bill to the hilt just as he has done all along with his double standard. Let me deal with the point made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory that the Government has produced nothing in the way of constitutional reform for the Northern Territory. I point out to him that in a period of 12 months we produced more in this field, and we are doing more now, than the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government did in 23 years, and he does not like it. It may be that we do not have now as we had before the backing of all the elected members of the Legislative Council. I admit that the honourable member could be right, but it comes as a great surprise to me, because until today I believed that this measure had the full backing of the members of the Legislative Council. I will soon find out the correct position. I shall have the greatest pleasure in letting the honourable member know which members of the Legislative Council support the honourable member in his opposition to a fully elected Legislative Assembly toy the end of this year. 
After listening to the honourable member for the Northern Territory it is quite obvious that he wants to delay the implementation of the principles in this Bill. He wants to delay giving to the people of the Northern Territory a fully elected Legislative Assembly by the end of this year. Yet the elected members of the Legislative Council, who represent the people of the Northern Territory, put that as their number one priority for constitutional reform in the Northern Territory. That is what I and the Government are trying to do. We are trying to give them what they have been striving for for a very long time. But I will take to heart what the honourable member for the Northern Territory said. I will look very carefully into his statements that this measure is being pushed or bulldozed through with almost immoral haste. I will give his statements every consideration. If necessary I will give serious thought to withdrawing the Bill, but the full responsibility for such action will rest on the shoulders of the Country Party member for the Northern Territory. If he speaks for the elected members of the Legislative Council and for the people of the Northern Territory he has told us what they want, but I frankly do not believe it. 
The honourable member is saying that since the election the members of the Legislative Council have said that they do not want it. 
Make no mistake; I will be using the telephone when I leave here, but I know what the answer will be. It is their number one priority. It is what they want. All that the honourable member is doing is playing cheap politics. Let us test it. Let us put it to the vote. You call for a division and you vote against it. 
Order! I have been very tolerant during this debate. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has been interjecting continually. At one stage he made a gross reflection on the Chair. I would suggest that he restrain himself. 
I know that you have just come into the House. 
I am very glad that the honourable member is appreciative of the good speech I am making on behalf of the Government. As I was saying, the true test of the sincerity of a member of Parliament is how he votes. When I close the debate we will watch with interest to see who, on the other side of the House, calls for a division and we will watch with interest to see which way the honourable member for the Northern Territory votes. I know how he will vote. He will do exactly as he did in respect of the Representation Bill. He will be all in favour of this legislation despite the fact that his Country Party colleagues are deeply opposed to it. On this occasion he is supporting the legislation yet he condemns it. We will see how he votes on it. 
I thank the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  for his remarks in this debate. I know, as I said previously when speaking on this subject, that this is a difficult proposition. I am guided, I have been guided and I have taken notice all along of the elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council. If they did not want what this legislation proposes it would not be done at this point of time. I could have put to the Government that there should be an amendment to this legislation to give the Government and the members of the Legislative Council more time to consider the matter. But when I put this to the members of the Legislative Council they said: 'We were elected for 3 years and only 3 years. It would be utter deceit to defer an election for say 3 months, 6 months or 12 months.' I agree entirely with what they said. They are the elected representatives of the people of the Northern Territory. They were elected for 3 years. There will certainly be. problems in respect of the powers of the new Legislative Assembly; we know that. This is not new in constitutional reform in Australia or anywhere in the world, for that matter, which has had this problem. We see it happening all the time in developing countries. But I can assure the House that the Government will be discussing these matters with the members of the Legislative Assembly. I have taken certain action to get from Council members their views on a number of things to be faced in this transitional period. I have raised with the members of the Council the problem as to the best way this could be handled both in the short term and progressively in the longer term. 
Reference has been made to the question of fees and allowances payable to members of the proposed Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. This matter is in hand. I received from the members through the  President  of the Legislative Council a submission on this subject. I have taken action. This is before the Government at the present time. Make no mistake about this. I am completely sympathetic to the proposals which have been put up by members of the Legislative Council. I want to ensure that members of the Legislative Assembly are given a decent salary, as good a salary as is possible, in order to attract to it the best possible men and women in the Northern Territory. This can only be done by providing good conditions, a good salary and allowances, good accommodation and good secretarial help. This matter is being looked at very carefully at the present time. I can assure the honourable member for the Northern Territory - he knows what 1 say is true; forget the politics of it - that I want to see members of the Legislative Assembly get the best possible conditions in terms of financial reward, accommodation or whatever it might be so that they can do the best possible job for the people of the Northern Territory. 
I thank the honourable member for Wakefield for his remarks about the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. Yes, I would like to see the Committee furnish its report before the new Legislative Assembly is elected. The Committee has been established now for some time but there have, of course, been some unavoidable delays due to no fault of committee members from either side of the House. But certainly as far as the delay which has been caused by the election is concerned, we would put the full blame on the Opposition. On the other hand I say to the honourable member for Wakefield that I do not want a report to be furnished to me by 24 October if it is a rushed report, not a sound report or df it has not been well thought out because that type of report could do irreparable damage if the Government acted on some of its conclusions which were not soundly based. If there is a delay in the presentation of the report there will be no criticism as far as I am concerned nor, I think I can say, as far as the Government is concerned. I want to see the best possible report handed to the Government. It may be that the Committee will give consideration to making available some aspects of the report or some of its conclusions instead of waiting until the overall report is completed. 
I accept the fact that a degree of interdependency is involved in many of these things particularly in respect of the powers of the Legislative Assembly. I am not bound, nor is the Government, by the decision to have 19 electorates, but it should not be less than nineteen. The experts of various political parties tell me that in respect of voting you would need to have at least 19 members. The figure of nineteen was the unanimous decision given tome by members of the Legislative Council. I accepted that figure; the Government accepted that figure. We have done everything that we could to meet the wishes of the elected members of the Legislative Council and we will continue to do so. 
I accept without argument that the change will not be easy. It will be difficult during this transitional period. But the Government is determined to give self-government through a fully elected Legislative Assembly to the Northern Territory. Without question, as thehonourable member for Wakefield pointed out in respect of some of the problems, there will be restrictions. I do not know the answer. I do not know whether, for example, the Aborigines in the Northern Territory should come under national control and national administration. I personally believe they should. I believe that the administration of the Aborigines of Australia should be under one Federal Minister, but I accept what the honourable member for Wakefield said because he also said he did not knowthe answer. I accept his view because after all he has listened to the evidence which was presented to the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. I do not know what the honourable member for the Northern Territory has said. He is close to the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I do not know what he thinks about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 Mr CALDER (Northern Territory)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
It is a fact that because of the escalation in costs that has been associated with this project since its inception, including years before this Government took office, there has been an approach to me by the Acting Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Camm,  who is the Minster for Mines and Main Roads in the Queensland Government. Approximately $4.4m is involved. The honourable member may not know that some months ago the Government made an emergency grant of $300,000 to keep men at work on certain aspects of the completion of the Monduran Dam. I can say to the honourable member that the letter from the Queensland Government has been received. It contains various propositions. It is under consideration by the Government. 
The Prime Minister has made a statement of the Government's intention to do away with the petroleum subsidy which will affect various areas of Australia. That decision has the endorsement of the Cabinet and the endorsement of the Caucus. 
 in reply - Speaking briefly on this matter, one point I should like to make is with respect to the remarks of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  He spoke at some length about the conversion to milking producing units as distinct from butterfat producing units. This of course involves the installation of a lot of refrigerated equipment. He rightly said that in many areas for many years such units have been installed. The honourable member suggested that under the terms and conditions of this Bill vats would be provided free. Of course, loans and not grants will be made available for the purchase of this equipment. The loans will be free of interest, but they will be loans and not grants. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  touched on a very important point with respect to the objectives of the adjustment programs; that is, in any conversion program it is necessary to make certain not only that the producer of milk is efficienthowever one defines efficiency - but also that his whole process is efficient or viable. There is no point in having one element viable and the other elements not viable. Obviously the whole process and all the elements break down if the actual pickup system is inefficient, and the number of-- 
It is obvious that the honourable member does not know anything about the Bill. 
-I am trying to answer the questions of the honourable member for Murray. If the honourable member does not want me to answer-- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! Interjections will cease. 
It is quite obvious that the Country Party does not want me to answer its questions. So I suggest that the Bill now be read a second time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 I want to reply on behalf of both the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and myself. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who was a Minister in the LiberalCountry Party Government, is apparently completely unaware of his own Government's legislation which has been in operation since 1949. What he is now arguing against is what his own Government had done since 1949. I refer to the beef roads agreement which had its genesis in the States Grants (Encouragement of Meat Production) Act of 1949 and which has extended through to the current beef roads program completed on 30 June. The Treasurer of the Commonwealth was, of course, involved, but it was specifically provided that the Minister for National Development, as he was then known, was responsible for the administrative arrangements. The 1968 legislation is specific. It refers to the Minister for National Development with respect to beef roads, not the Minister for Transport. 
Previous legislation specifically mentions the Treasurer in respect of certain areas but with regard to roads the appropriate Minister is specified. What the honourable member for Gippsland has said completely ignores legislation which he supported and which previous Liberal-Country Party governments have fol- lowed since 1949. The honourable member seeks to dismember or abolish the specialised divisions set up in the Department of Urban and Regional Affairs and in my own Department. The Department of Northern Development is especially concerned with beef roads which are an entirely different proposition from highways. The same principle applies to various aspects of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. These are specialised programs. You do not simply build beef roads from point A to point B. In working out where to build beef roads you pay heed to the location of the cattle industry and to land classification. You also have regard to rates of current turn-off of cattle and estimates of potential turn-off. You must pay regard  to  what will result from development. 
In association with State governments and Australian government agencies actual road programs are determined. An overall plan is formulated. That overall plan becomes the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development and I work within that plan in our respective departments. Has the honourable member for Gippsland heard any objections from the State governments about the way this has worked with respect to beef road proposals? Of course not. 
 The honourable member is talking about this clause. What he wants to do is omit reference to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Northern Development. By so doing we would then get some half-baked plan worked out in bits and pieces. This has not been the situation in legislation supported by previous governments since 1949. Let us not have any nonsense about this matter. What the honourable member is trying to do, as the Minister for Transport has pointed out simply, is to wreck the smooth operations that have existed for many years, even under governments he supported, and affect the co-operation that has existed between the States and the Commonwealth in certain areas. The proposal has worked with beef roads; it will work with the involvement of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Transport. For that reason the amendment is opposed. The system has worked in the past and previous governments have endorsed it. 
I go a step further. The honourable member for Gippsland said that the Australian Government can play a positive part in the determination of roads. This has always been the position with beef roads. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Department of National Development in the past have all worked with the States in formulating plans, but it has been the Australian Government which has, in fact, determined those plans. This situation has been accepted by Western Australia, irrespective of what political party has been in power there; by Queensland, irrespective of what political party has been in power there; and, of course, by the Northern Territory which is Australian government territory. This system has worked in the past and it will work in the future. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsland)- A personal explanation 
One of the main purposes of this Bill is to give the people of the Northern Territory representation in the Senate. After listening to the speech of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  it is very clear where the Australian Country Party once again stands on this issue. It is bitterly opposed to giving the people of the Northern Territory, who are Australians and electors, the right to have Senate representation. Everyone in this chamber will watch with interest the way in which the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  votes on this measure. On the last occasion this issue came before the House of Representatives the members of the LiberalCountry Party Opposition did what they are doing again this evening. They blatantly opposed the measure but on the last occasion did not call for a division because they did not want to expose the honourable member for the Northern Territory.  Mr Acting Chairman,  one thing is certain: There will be a division on this Bill. We on this side of the chamber will watch with interest how the honourable member for the Northern Territory votes on this measure because he has consistently said that he supports Senate representation for the Northern Territory, but just as consistently he has voted with the Country Party against any measure which is designed to bring that about. 
Despite their rights as Australians and their undisputed rights as electors, the people of the Northern Territory have been denied the opportunity to elect representatives to both Houses of this Parliament. They have been denied this democratic right for 63 years. They are still being denied the right to send a representative or representatives to the Senate because of the bitter opposition of the Liberal and Country Parties. The situation is even worse when one considers that in 1901 the people of the Northern Territory were part of South Australia. If they were entitled to vote as part of South Australia then they were automatically entitled to vote to send representatives to both Houses of this Parliament. It was not until 1911, after they had sent representatives to both Houses of this Parliament for 4 parliaments, that the Northern Territory Acceptance Act came into force. That occurred on 1 January 1911 and it denied the people of the Northern Territory all electoral rights. They had no right to send a member to the House of Representatives. They had no right to send a representative to the Senate. They had no right even to vote in referenda which proposed changes to the Constitution. 
A bitter fight developed in the Northern Territory, and it was not until 1 922 that the electors of the Northern Territory were able to send a representative to the House of Representatives. For a number of years  Mr. H.  Nelson, father of the present Administrator of the Northern Territory, fought incessantly in this House for full voting rights, because although he was the representative of the Northern Territory he had no voting rights at all. He could take part in debates but he could not vote on any matter. In 1936, there was some progressive liberalising of that situation. But it was not until 1968, after the present Administrator of the Northern Territory,  Mr Jock  Nelson, had made many a stirring speech in this House in relation to representation for the Northern Territory, full voting rights for its representative and Senate representation, that the honourable member for the Northern Territory in fact received full voting rights. 
It took 57 years, from 191 1, to achieve this. In 1974 the Liberal and Country Parties still bitterly oppose giving the people of the Northern Territory Senate representation. The Liberal and Country Parties treat the people of the Northern Territory as second class citizens, and they ought to be thoroughly ashamed of it. The people in the Northern Territory are Australians; they are electors. Under section 122 of the Constitution machinery is laid down for giving all electors of the Commonwealth a vote in choosing a representative for both Houses of the Parliament. But the Country Party in particular, supported blindly by the Liberal Party, still refuses to give the people of the Northern Territory a representative voice in the Senate. 
The Northern Territory is rapidly developing into an area with significant economic potential. As such it is desirable that the people of the Northern Territory have a voice in both Houses of the Parliament so that they are able to argue for and against the measures that from time to time come before the House of Representatives and the Senate. The Northern Territory is not a poor area. In fact, it is one of the richest cattle areas we have in Australia. It occupies oneseventh of the whole area of Australia. It has the richest uranium deposits in the world. Darwin, the capital of the Northern Territory, and the capital of northern Australia, is in fact our front line of defence. But the people in Darwin are denied by the Liberal and Country Parties the right to have representation in the Senate. Alice Springs is an international tourist resort. What do people from overseas think when they go to the Alice Springs district and they are told that the people who live in this international tourist resort do not have a representative voice in the Senate and that they cannot even vote in referenda which propose changes in the Constitution. 
While I am on this point of referenda, I would like to refer to an example of blatant hypocrisy which we witnessed last week. The honourable member for the Northern Territory bitterly opposed the referendum proposals when they were being canvassed. He bitterly opposed the people of the Northern Territory being allowed to vote on proposals to alter the Constitution. To save his skin, he gave notice last week that he would introduce a private member's Bill which would give the people of the Northern Territory a vote in referendums. What blatant hypocrisy! 
Because the Northern Territory is a Territory its affairs are influenced by this Parliament- by the Senate and the House of Representativesmore than the affairs of the States are influenced by this Parliament. This comes about in a number of ways. For example, the annual appropriation for ordinary government activity comes under the scrutiny of both Houses of this Parliament- the Senate and the House of Representatives. Public works in the Northern Territory which cost more than a certain figure must be scrutinised by the Public Works Committee. Certain statutory actions- for example, land acquisition- can be disallowed by the House of Representatives or the Senate. One can, in all propriety, ask: 'Is it right? Is there justice in the Senate being allowed to pass judgment on important issues which affect the every-day lives of the people of the Northern Territory when they cannot get a representative in the Senate'? We in the Labor Government support completely and utterly, and have done so for a long period, Senate representation for the people of the Northern Territory. 
It is not surprising that the elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council have for a number of years pressured Federal governments to give Senate representation to the people of the Northern Territory. For instance, in 1957 the Select Committee on Constitutional Reform appointed by the Northern Territory Legislative Council included in its report a recommendation for Senate representation. Similar recommendations flow to the Legislative Council with monotonous regularity. Despite these constant pressures, in the 23 years that the Liberal-Country Party had control of the government of this nation it did nothing- not one thing- progressive to give the people of the Northern Territory a voice in the Senate. On the other hand, the Labor Party has consistently, in the House of Representatives, in the Senate and outside, advocated Senate representation. The present Prime Minister, as has been pointed out, introduced Bills in November 1968 and August 1970 to give Senate representation to the Northern Territory. What happened? This magnificent Opposition, as it is now, did not allow these Bills to go to a vote. They went to the second reading stage, but the then Government would not allow them to go to a vote because the vote of the honourable member for the Northern Territory would be registered against the proposal. 
Let us consider briefly what the present Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  said in 1966. He stated that a case could be made out for 2 senators for the Northern Territory. 
-Mr Anthony. 
-Yes. A case could be made out for 2 senators for the Northern Territory is what he was reported in the Northern Territory Press as having said. No doubt he would be very quick to point out that on 29 May 1973 each member of the Country Party in the House of Representatives voted for the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. Why did they do so? In the Senate the Country Party voted against it. Why? In the House of Representatives it was to protect the honourable member for the Northern Territory. Yet we have this blatant hypocrisy now. At the Joint Sitting they are opposing it again. They do not know what they are doing. What happened when this Bill was introduced after the election?  Speaker  after  speaker,  including the Leader of the Country Party and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, got up and opposed giving the people of the Northern Territory a vote for Senate representation. I challenged the honourable member for the Northern Territory at the time to declare himself in the only way he could- by calling a division. As members in this House would know I said he would not and could not call a division. I was made to withdraw a word I used and I will not use it again. He would not call a division. He would not declare himself in this House and in the Hansard record as supporting the Government. What happened when the question was put? No division was called for. There is a word for these sorts of people who get up and speak- as they have done- and refuse to give the people of the Northern Territory a vote in the Senate but at the same time refuse to record their names in division so that it can be seen where they stand. 
The Labor Government, and the Labor Party when it was in opposition, have consistently supported every move to give the people of the Northern Territory a representative in both Houses of this Parliament. As I said before, the Prime Minister of Australia, when we was Leader of the Opposition, on two occasions introduced such Bills into this Parliament. They were not allowed to go to a vote. We on this side of the Parliament look with great pride to when this vote will be taken, because when the vote is taken we will see a majority of votes- as is needed under the Constitution- in this Joint Sittingto give the people of the Northern Territory the just rights for which they have been fighting since 1911. Despite the repeated, consistent and disgraceful opposition of the Liberal and Country Parties this legislation will be passed. Every member on this side of the House will be watching the performance of the honourable member for the Northern Territory to see which way he votes. This time he cannot shirk the issue. If he is loyal to his own Party in this Parliament he will vote with the Country Party. But he will not. Let us see what he will do. Do not let him be absent from the chamber when the vote is taken. Let him cast his vote as we know he will cast it. 
-There is no personal abuse. These are the hard facts of life. The people of the Northern Territory are utterly sick and tired of the hypocrisy of the Liberal and Country Party in not giving the people of the Northern Territory a voice in both Houses of the Parliament. Those people are entitled to representation. They are not second class citizens. People on the other side of the House, by their actions, rank the people of the Northern Territory as second class citizens. 
What about the Aborigines in the Northern Territory who wish to have their names included on the electoral roll? Like other people of the Northern Territory they are denied the right to representation in the Senate. We on this side of the Parliament, when it comes to a vote - (Opposition members interjecting)- 
-There are enough natural feathered galahs in the Northern Territory without you adding to their number; members opposite do not need to add to their number. We on this side of the Parliament will look with pride at the result of the division on this Bill because what we will achieve tonight for the people of the Northern Territory will earn their lasting thanks. 
For the information of the honourable members I present the resolutions of  the eighty-eighth and eighty-ninth meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Two. 
(i) Helen Craven Crisp. 
) Frances Mary-Lou Cassidy. 
(i) H. C. Crisp-Clerk, Class 8. Edit all publications issued by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. (ii) F. M-L. Cassidy, Clerk, Class 8. Provide executive and secretariat services to various committees serviced by the Fisheries Division. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) At my direction there is to be a review of the powers, functions, and composition of the Australian Dairy Produce Board. I shall shortly be inviting interested Federal bodies within the dairy industry to contribute to the review by submitting proposals for consideration. As the Australian Dairy Industry Council is not a statutory body, I am not able- and indeed I would not wish- to intervene in the internal arrangements of any organisation set up by the industry itself. 
Government policy provides, in relation to statutory marketing boards, for adequate representation of primary producers and for professional experts, where appointed, to be independent of vested and/or conflicting interests. Within that general policy I believe that membership of statutory boards should comprise those most competent to assist the particular industry. This applies to the Australian Dairy Produce Board. 
The other two organisations referred to are not statutory bodies, but are set up by the dairy industry itself. In the circumstances I believe it a reasonable expectation that the industry should be capable of determining, without Government intervention, what is satisfactory representative membership. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There has been no acceleration in reafforestation since 2 December 1972. It was agreed that decisions on future rates of reafforestation and ways of carrying it out would be more soundly based after the working party reports and recommendations of the Forestry and Wood-based Industries Development Conference became available. This Conference was held from 1-5 April 1974 but its final recommendations will not be made until after July 1974. 
See answer 1. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
One. 
Third Division, Clerk Class 9. 
Nil. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 22 March 1974 the Treasurer and the Minister for Agriculture jointly announced that for some time it had been recognised that the fishing industry, and in particular the smaller owner/skipper operation had experienced difficulty in obtaining credit on suitable terms. Consequently, the Commonwealth Development Bank's lending activities were extended to cover a wider range of purposes including: 
financing  or  changes of ownership of fishing vessels in appropriate circumstances, including circumstances where developmental aspects were not predominant; and 
financing the repayment of existing debt that had been arranged on unsuitable terms and conditions. 
The interest rates charged would be in the range applicable to similar loans to farmers. 
Immigration: Applications from Pacific Islanders (Question No. 369) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government together with the Queensland Government established a Burdekin Project Committee in September 1973 to set in train and supervise a comprehensive program of investigations into the potential for development of the resources of the basin on the Burdekin River and its tributaries for industrial, mining, urban and agricultural uses, hydro-electricity generation and for flood mitigation. 
The investigations cover all feasible storage sites and water uses and, accordingly, should be distinguished from a feasibility study of the Burdekin Dam Project alone. 
As information becomes available the Committee will examine potential development options for various needs. 
During 1973-74, the Burdekin Project Committee initiated engineering studies at varying levels of detail on potential storage sites on the Burdekin River. Preliminary investigations were carried out on suitable storage sites on the Belyando, Suttor, Cape and Campaspe rivers, tributaries of the Burdekin River. 
Groundwater investigations in the basin during 1973-74 included test bore drilling and geological mapping. 
Commercial irrigation trials were carried out at Millaroo Research Station on a range of potential production possibilities. A new field research station was established on the right bank of the Lower Burdekin River to test the potential, under simulated commercial conditions, of soil groupings not present at the Millaroo Research Station. Soil surveys on the right bank of the Lower Burdekin River have been commenced as well as an assessment of the salinity and fertility status of these soils. 
Catchment erosion and land capability studies were also commenced and appropriate mapping studies are in progress. Representative erosion measurement stations have been installed. A start has also been made on possible environmental consequences of various development options and on the potential for industrial development in the Burdekin Basin. 
The 1974-75 program of investigations will entail a continuation of the broad spectrum of investigations commenced in 1973-74, with relatively more emphasis on investigations into the potential for industrial development in the basin and neighbouring areas of economic influence. It is also planned to commence investigations during the coming financial year into the potential for hydro and thermal power generation in the Burdekin Basin. 
The scope of the 1 974-75 program of investigations will depend on the extent of financial allocations by the Australian and State Governments. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) The two major vegetable oils used in the manufacture of poly-unsaturated margarine are understood to be safflower and sunflower. The Australian production of safflower, because of agronomic problems, has progressively declined over recent years from 3,241 tonnes of oil in 1968-69 to an estimated 1,767 tonnes in 1973-74. Imports of safflower oil in the same period have decreased from 1,957 tonnes to 1,119 tonnes (II months only). Conversely, the production of sunflower oil has increased greatly from 2,370 tonnes in 1968-69 to an estimated 27,520 tonnes in 1973-74 while imports over this period have been negligible. However, details of each margarine manufacturer's formulations and the specific end uses of poly-unsaturated oils are not available. 
Safflower is imported both in the form of seed and oil and while imports during recent years have fluctuated they remain fairly substantial reflecting the deficiency in Australian production. Imports over the past six years are set out below. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Employment in forestry and umber industries in each State: 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The matter is under consideration by the Government. 
It is a fact that in the last 2 months a series of problems has arisen in north Queensland in regard to the supply of fuel, particularly distillate. 
The question happens to be asked about north Queensland. If it had not been for the supply of 150,000 gallons of distillate from the naval stores in Cairns the entire sugar industry would have had to close down in the area north of Townsville. Due to the cooperation of the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Science who was Acting Minister for Defence at the time this amount of distillate was made available. It is a fact that the initial problem was caused by industrial troubles in Brisbane. This has shown that there are very serious inherent problems in regard to the supply of fuel to central and northern Queensland which should be looked at very quickly by State and Federal authorities as well as by industry. These authorities should look at the capacity of the Ampol and Amoco refineries in Brisbane, the capacity of the Queensland Railways, the capacity of only one ship, the 'W. H. Leonard', to supply the whole of north Queensland, and also the problem of not having sufficient storage facilities in north Queensland. 
This same problem was experienced during the floods and it is experienced following cyclones. Here again the complete vulnerability of north Queensland has been demonstrated. Next Monday a ship called the 'Texaco Bogota' will call into Townsville with 15,000 tons of distillate. On the following day the 'W. H. Leonard' is scheduled to discharge approximately 3,100 tons at Townsville. On Thursday week the 'W. H. Leonard' is due to discharge something like 4, 100 tons in Cairns. The position is tight; there is no question about that. The oil companies and the industries concerned are looking at a system of rationalisation which could mean the rearrangenent of fuel supply for the Cairns district when the 'Texaco Bogota' discharges its cargo next Monday. I can assure the honourable member that the matter is well in hand. I stress that the present problems are due to 23 years of the Opposition's refusal when in government to provide ships to serve north Queensland and its refusal to put pressure on the Queensland Government to allow the refineries in Queensland to have a greater capacity. 
Pursuant to section 18 (1) of the Dried Fruits Research Act 1971; I present for the information of honourable members the interim third annual report of the Dried Fruits Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise a nonrepayable grant of $2.56m to the Queensland Government towards the cost of constructing stage 2 of the Ross River Dam near Townsville. The Queensland Government and the Townsville City Council will together meet the balance of the cost of stage 2, at present estimated at $5. 12m. The construction of stage 2 is being advanced to ensure adequate water supplies for the fast growing population of Townsville and neighbouring areas in the Shire of Thuringowa now totalling about 80,000 persons and expected to reach 100,000 by 1980. Stage 2 of the dam construction will ensure an additional daily supply of 83.8 megalitres (18.4 million gallons) bringing the total daily supply for Townsville and its environs from all sources to about 166.4 megalitres (36.6 million gallons) for domestic, industrial and municipal purposes. It will also provide for increased domestic consumption levels which are limited by the present restrictions because supplies are often severely inadequate over drier periods. 
There are other important implications for Townsville in stage 2 of the Ross River Dam project. Flood mitigation storage will be increased and Townsville will be virtually secure from flooding in the Ross River. This will enable the City Council to plan with confidence the future use of large areas of flood-prone land under its control. Further, this storage of some 417,000 megalitres (338,000 acre feet) only 30 kilometres from the centre of the largest city in northern Australia should provide valuable opportunities for relaxation and recreation. Proposals are being examined to have the storage area declared a flora and fauna reserve. The construction of stage 2 involves raising the height of the stage 1 spillway by 6.5 metres (21.5 feet) and the embankments by 4 metres (13 feet), including the placement of some 1.53 million cubic metres (2 million cubic yards) of earth, sand and rockfill. In addition, about 16 kilometres (10 miles) each of the Flinders Highway and the Great Northern Railway will need to be relocated due to the enlargement of the storage area. 
Townsville is a city of considerable importance, not only to the north, but to Australia generally. Its major industries are export-orientated, based on the rich resources of its hinterland including a copper refinery to process concentrates from Mount Isa, a nickel refinery now under construction to handle the output from the Greenvale nickel deposits and 3 abattoirs, two of which process livestock mainly for export. Townsville also handles exports of sugar from the Burdekin region, one of Australia's most important sugar districts. Townsville has been selected by the Australian Government as a possible growth centre. Indeed, its growth over recent years owes much to Australian Government decisions, such as the location of defence installations, the establishment and growth of the James Cook University and work now in progress on the Institute of Marine Science at Cape Cleveland. The prospective provision of international air traffic facilities at Townsville would provide a further stimulus to growth. In fact, it was specifically in recognition of the burden on the public utilities of Townsville created by such Australian Government initiatives that we decided to provide a grant of $ 1.5m in 1973 towards the cost of constructing stage 1 of the Ross River Dam. 
The Department of Northern Development and the Department of Urban and Regional Development have worked in close consultation on this matter, examining all aspects of water supply and demand within the context of our policies in respect of northern development and regional growth centres. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, at the request of the Department of Northern Development, reviewed the design and cost estimates of the engineering works and an interdisciplinary panel of senior State officers examined the likely environmental impact of stage 2. No adverse environmental consequences were foreshadowed. The Government believes that an adequate supply of water will be a major incentive for future growth in the Townsville area. Water consumption in the tropics is inevitably higher than in most southern cities because of harsher environmental conditions and the requirement of large quantities of water for the maintenance of municipal amenities, such as parks and gardens, recreation areas and street improvements. The provision of adequate water supplies is also an indispensable condition for the location and development of new industrial enterprises on which the longterm growth of Townsville will depend. 
I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain approval for an agreement which has been negotiated with the Queensland Government under which the Australian Government will provide a loan of $2m during this financial year to the State towards the cost of constructing Julius Dam on the Leichhardt River at a site about 65 kilometres east of Mount Isa. Construction of the dam is to be financed by Mount Isa Mines Ltd, the Mount Isa City Council and the Queensland Government. The estimated cost of the dam is $ 10m with an estimated further cost of $ 1 5.2m to cover pumps and a pipeline supply system. The Queensland Government's share of the total estimated cost of $25.2m is $7.3m and includes an amount of $3.9m to enable the dam to be built with spare capacity to cater for the expected growth requirements of the area. Julius Dam with a storage capacity of 123,500 megalitres, is being constructed in the Selwyn Ranges some 1,500 kilometres north-west of Brisbane. Rainfall in this region is low, averaging less than 400 millimetres a year and both monthly and annual falls are variable resulting often in severe water shortages over long periods and sometimes in serious floods. The extremely high annual evaporation of 3,230 millimetres leaves an annual deficit of 2,830 millimetres and is the major cause of low yields from water storages. 
The whole area is highly mineralised and known reserves of silver, lead and copper ores have been increased as a result of recent exploration, whilst the economic feasibility of developing other mineral deposits has been proved. Mining started at Mount Isa in February 1923 in primitive conditions; transport through the Selwyn Ranges was difficult, and the only water available was from sandy pools in the bed of the Leichhardt River. During its first 50 years of development, water has been an extremely important constraint to progress at Mount Isa. The first water supply was provided by damming Rifle Creek in 1929 and this supply was supplemented by bore water. Later, supplies were further augmented by the construction of Lake Moondarra in 1955, and it is obvious that further development will rely on additional water supplies. 
The population of Mount Isa at the 1971 census was 25,200, representing an increase of 8,200 since 1966 at an average annual growth rate of 8 per cent over the census period. I am sure there is general agreement that people living in arid areas under uncomfortable climatic conditions for many months of the year should have access to assured water supplies for domestic and municipal purposes. The demand for water for mining activities is also expected to increase. Mount Isa Mines is developing a new mine at Hilton some 16 kilometres north of the present workings. Operations at the Hilton mine are expected to commence around 1977-78. Other prospective users of water, such as the phosphate mine at Lady Annie and copper  mining  at Kajabbi, are likely to begin operations at a later date. Julius Dam is expected to be completed by 1975 and, therefore, there will be some considerable delay between the completion of the dam and the main demand for water. 
The loan to the State of Queensland is basically to enable the State to assist in the development of our valuable northern mineral resources. This loan, together with funds provided by Queensland, will ensure a supply of water in anticipation of the expected demand by mining industries. It will ensure that workers and their families will be able to enjoy some of the amenities which people in southern Australia often take for granted. I am, nevertheless, concerned at the high level of water charges which may have to be levied by the Mount Isa Council to meet its share of the dam and distribution works. An offer of a loan of $2m to the State of Queensland was made by the Australian Government in October 1972 and confirmed by this Government with improved terms to ease the burden of repayments until the expected demand for water develops. This new offer has been accepted by the Premier of Queensland under the terms set out in the schedule to this Bill. 
The mining industries of northern Australia are making a noteworthy and vitally important contribution to the economy of Australia. They will continue to do so in the future and, in one way or another, we must assure that the heavy burden of costs for water, transport and other basic facilities does not act as a deterrent to those people whose personal contribution is indispensable to the success of the development of our northern resources. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Research grants have been made to the following organisations in the last 3 years: 
University of Sydney Crocodile Research Program, for research into saltwater crocodiles, $4,000 during 1972 and $10,000 during 1973. 
Australian Mineral Industries Research Association Limited, for non-destructive testing of wire ropes, $1,333 during 1972. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3 ) Please see the answer provided to question upon notice No 97 appearing in Hansard of 24 July 1974 at page 625. 
Department of the Environment and Conservation: Appointment of Women  (Question No. 121) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Goods and Services subject to price control are: 
Bread: Darwin, imposed 28.8.73. 
Beer: Northern Territory wide, imposed 7.8.73. 
Cigarettes and tobacco: Northern Territory wide, imposed 22.10.73. 
Milk: Darwin, imposed 18.3.74. 
Soft drinks: Darwin, imposed 26. 10.73. 
Control is exercised in accordance with the provisions of the Prices Regulation Ordinance. 
Justified prices have been negotiated for. 
General Practitioners 'fees: Northern Territory wide. 
Meat: Darwin/Katherine 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3). Please see the answer provided to question upon notice No. 329 appearing in Hansard of 24 July 1974, pages 626 and 627. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the following reports and papers: 
Summary of resolutions and recommendations of the thirteenth meeting of the Australian Forestry Council held on 28 June 1 974. 
Interim statement on the activities of the Australian Egg Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Interim report of the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Interim annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Interim annual Report of the Australian Pig Industry Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Canned Fruits Export Marketing Act 1963-1970, the Australian Canned Fruits Board annual report and account 1973. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Honey Industry Act 1962-1973, the eleventh annual report of the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to section 28 ( 1) of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act 1924-1973, the fiftieth annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second rime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make a minor amendment to the States Grants (Beef Cattle Roads) Act 1968 in order to extend the period of application of the Act to the State of Queensland from 1 July 1974 to 31 December 1974. Under the terms of that Act, financial assistance in the form of grants totalling $39. 5m was made available by the Australian Government to Queensland over the seven-year period from 1 July 1967 to 30 June 1974 for the construction of an approved program of beef road works. The devastating floods in Queensland earlier this year delayed progress on some of the works in the final year of the program with the result that by 30 June there was a relatively small shortfall in the expenditure under the approved program. The amendment of the Act is necessary in order to provide finance to the State to the extent of the shortfall in the original program of approved works. The amount involved is only $279,000 and an appropriate provision has been made in the Budget. I would explain that the works in question have already been carried out. The Australian Government has pledged its assistance to Queensland in its flood restoration efforts and has consistently adopted a positive and constructive approach in this matter. This Bill is in keeping with that approach and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I wish to move an amendment to clause 2 on behalf of the Government. Honourable members will recall the recent announcement by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that the Government had carried out an examination to see what could be done to assist the Australian Wheat Board to make progress payments on the 1973-74 season's wheat pool as early as possible. As a result, the Minister said that the Government intended to seek the early passage of the Bill that we are examining at present. Clause 36 of the Bill provides for the Wheat Board to have the power to borrow commercially. Such borrowings could be used, if necessary, to enable the Board to meet the scheduled payments. To ensure that this borrowing power is available at the earliest opportunity, I move: 
Omit 'a date to be fixed by Proclamation', insert 'the day on which it receives the Royal Assent'. 
The amendment seeks to provide that the Act shall operate from the date of royal assent rather than a date to be fixed by proclamation. 
I shall respond, in view of the insistence by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  However, I would suggest that the honourable member read the second reading speech, which says that the Board will have the same membership as provided for in the existing legislation. This gives effect to the undertaking given to the industry in March this year. The Australian Government position is that whilst it is not prepared to tie its hands completely in respect of the composition of the Australian Wheat Board for the next 5 years, the legislation for the new stabilisation plan provides for a continuation of the present composition of the Board and there is no present intention to change the legislation to alter that composition during the5-year period. It is unlikely that the Government would be giving consideration to this matter within the next 2 to 3 years, and any proposals for change which might then be initiated will be fully discussed with the industry and with State Ministers of Agriculture at, of course, the Australian Agricultural Council. It should be added that the Labor Party platform, in providing for adequate representation for primary producers on ail boards effecting the handling and marketing of their products, does not preclude a majority of elected growers' representatives on such boards. 
-Since the Bill was introduced last July it has become apparent that there is a deficiency in this clause, in that it does not authorise the Board to account for the sales proceeds of certain non-quota wheat. Accordingly, I seek to move the 2 amendments together. 
-Naturally at this stage I am not prepared to accept the suggestion but, from listening to the arguments that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has put forward, I can certainly see the logic in it. I assure him that I will bring those arguments to the notice of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt). 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I note the second point made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  In relation to the owneroperators allowance, I think the honourable member would be aware that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has advised the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation that he is prepared to have the matter re-examined next year in time for a decision to be taken as to whether the matter might be adjusted for the commencement of the 1975-76 season. The Federation is apparently content with that undertaking. I might say to the honourable member, however, that I personally have some sympathy for this because, relying on my memory, I have a feeling that in 1968 I moved an amendment on behalf of the Labor Party when it was on the other side of the House that the owner-operators allowance be included in the regimen of costs, for assessing movements in costs to ascertain a new home consumption price. 
-Never mind about sticking to my guns. As a member of the government the honourable member opposed my amendment. Now the position is reversed and the present Opposition wants to move perhaps the same amendment for the same reason, and, as a member of the Government, I am opposing it. I think the position is completely reversed, but perhaps our arguments may be right. What we may have to do is convince the Treasury that there are economic arguments which support the inclusion of the owner-operator allowance. On the other hand, there are arguments that other people have put forward which the Government has accepted to the degree that the owneroperators allowance will not be included in the indexation. 
The point I would like to make to the honourable member for New England is that I think he and I are in basic agreement, and I think most honourable members would agree, that when we have a high rate of inflation it is difficult to accept that productivity can absorb the rate of inflation with respect to the indexing forward of specific costs and the omission of others. This is a technical argument. I think I have argued in exactly the same way in which the present Opposition would argue. The only difference is that I argued it 6 years ago. If my memory is right, I moved an amendment accordingly. The whole position is reversed. However, the undertaking has been given by the Minister for Agriculture. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Bill and the Wheat Export Charge Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Palmerston Arterial Road is proposed for construction in four stages with an overall construction period of  2  years. Each stage will be programmed so that all stages will be completed at the same time. Documentation for stage one is completed and its inclusion in the works programme is subject to budgetary considerations. 
Community Recreation Facilities (QuestionNo. 787) 
-( 1 ) (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to  Mr Whitlam  's answer to 
Question No. 97, which appeared in Hansard of 24 July, page 625. 
-( 1) (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to  Mr Whitlam  's answer to Question No. 329, which appeared in Hansard of 24 July, pages 626/627. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) At the request of the Australian Dairy Industry Council (ADIC), a Committee was appointed by the Standing Committee on Agriculture of the Australian Agricultural Council to report on the basis of payment for milk used for manufacture. 
The Committee reported in September 1972, recommending a change from the previous butterfat basis, to a basis of payment made up of two components: one for the weight of fat and one for the weight of protein. 
Following the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in October 1972, the report of the Committee was released to the industry for their comments. 
The Australian Dairy Farmers' Federation and ADIC suggested that before introducing legislation for payment for milk through State Departments of Agriculture, it would be advisable to introduce a trial period at testing for fat and protein in individual bulk milk supplies to factories and in herd production recording schemes for individual cows. 
Tests are being carried out in a number of States and by some factories. 
Any change in the basis of payment would involve modification to State regulations. The results of the tests will assist State Governments in arriving at a decision on the matter. In general, it appears that States are tending to favour changed basis of payment, especially if it can be associated with the introduction of centralised testing for bulk milk to factories and for herd recording purposes. 
World trends also appear to be in favour of a basis of payment for milk which takes account of either total solidsnotfat or protein in addition to fat content Countries which have changed (such as Netherlands, Denmark, France and Belgium) or are contemplating changing (such as New Zealand and Ireland) to a payment system based on milk solids or protein and fat are doing so in the light of both world demand for protein and their local situation, including the wishes of industry. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There has been common understanding reached in the Australian Agricultural Council that mixtures of milk fat and vegetable oils (with the proportion of vegetable oil to total fat/oil weight falling within the range 15-25 per cent) should be recognised under the generic term of dairy blend. 
As yet there is no commercial production of dairy blend in Australia. A number of such blends are in the process of development. Those in the most advanced stages are one developed by the Queensland Butter Marketing Board, and another by the South Australian Department of Agriculture. Work on the latter blend was financed partly from the Dairying Research Trust Account; a joint application for a patent for this particular blend has been made by the South Australian Government and the Australian Government. CSIRO has recently developed a technique for the mixing of milk fat and vegetable oils by phase inversion. 
Legislation has been amended in Queensland and Western Australia to permit the manufacture and marketing of dairy blend; amendments to the same effect are either being prepared or proposed in other States. 
Registration of premises to manufacture dairy blend will be in accordance with the amended State legislation. 
Management of the patent jointly owned by the South Australian and Australian Governments is being delegated to the Australian Dairy Produce Board, who will have the task of arranging for the manufacture under licence of this particular blend. 
The term 'easy spread butter' refers to a technique involving the fractionation of milk fat and the utilisation of the soft fractions to manufacture a pure butter of enhanced spreadability. 
Trials involving the fractionation of milk fats are in progress at the Gilbert Chandler Institute of Dairy Technology, Werribee, Victoria, and at CSIRO, Division of Chemical Engineering, Clayton, Victoria. New Zealand has lodged an application for a patent for a particular method of fractionation, which could affect the use of that technique in Australia. 
New Zealand research has tended to emphasise work on fractionation. Research in Australia has mainly concentrated on the development of products containing blends of milk fats and vegetable oils. Arrangements are operating between Australian and New Zealand research workers for a continuing exchange of findings on butterfat fractionation and milk fat/vegetable oil blending, as both forms of research and development are being carried out in each country. 
There is diversity of opinion among interested parties within the dairy industry about the characteristics, such as spreadability, keeping quality, etc., considered desirable in dairy blends; about the possible market response to their introduction; and about both the economics of production of blends and their potential effects on the industries supplying raw materials for existing yellow fat products of all kinds. 
In Australia work on dairy blend has reached an advanced stage of development; investigations on milk fat fractionation techniques are still in the research stage. In view of this situation, there appears no reason to defer the progress of action towards the introduction of dairy blend. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member 's question: 
The Australian Department of Agriculture has not given any consideration to subsidizing private veterinary surgeons as the conduct of the campaign in the field is a matter for the States. 
It is understood, however, that most States have employed private veterinary surgeons in some phases of the campaign to supplement the work of State Veterinary Officers. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Agriculture co-operated with the Parliamentary Committee on Prices during the course of its enquiry into the prices of meat and meatmeal. The transcripts and evidence presented to the Committee have been closely examined by officers of my Department. I am aware of the recommendations made by the Committee in its report, dated December 1973. 
No. 
and (4) The report served to draw attention to market circumstances relating to meat and meatmeal prices at the time of the enquiry. 
Subsequent to the Joint Committee's report, the power of the Australian Government to regulate the export of meatmeals has been applied more stringently, primarily to ensure that the domestic market continues to have priority in the use of available supplies. 
Early in 1974 production of meatmeals was seriously affected due to reduced slaughterings of live-stock. To ensure that the shortage of meatmeals in Australia was not aggravated by export trading I instructed my Department on 20 February 1974 not to issue further permits to export meatmeals until such time as shortages on the domestic market were overcome. 
Since that time the outlook has altered: protein meals have become more readily available on the international market; supplies of substitute protein meals have been taken up by local users; prices of meatmeals on the domestic market have generally declined and limited exportable surpluses have developed in most States. In these circumstances limited exports of meatmeals have been approved; however, in view of the relatively low levels of live-stock slaughterings and of meatmeal production, an intensive review of market circumstances will be maintained and the export restrictions applied as necessary. 
Regarding the recommendations relating to meat, the following action was taken: 
Recommendation (i). The Government rejected on 8 October 1973 the recommendation for an export tax on beef. 
Recommendation (ii). The Government held the recommendation that the meat industry voluntarily restrict beef exports in abeyance. There has been no need for restraint on beef exports since early this year, owing to extremely weak export demand. 
Recommendation (iii). Is no longer relevant as United States live-stock producers ceased withholding stock from the market in September 1973. 
Recommendation (iv). The representative body of the pig industry has requested that the pig slaughter levy be increased to provide funds for the promotion of pigmeat. The Government has announced that it will introduce the necessary legislation. 
Recommendation (v). The Minister for Agriculture has announced that he intends reviewing the composition, powers and functions of all marketing boards, including the Meat Board. 
Recommendation (vi). The Minister for Science announced on 13 September 1973 the Government's decision to establish the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards. The I.C.C.S. is to advise the Government on matters concerning consumer protection, particularly standards and liaise with consumer groups on matters of direct interest to consumers. 
One of the results of initiatives made by the I.C.C.S. has been the recent formation of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations which will be invited to submit matters of concern to consumers to the Government. 
Recommendation (vii). Data has been collected from exporters concerning sales under forward contracts, but owing to the present low level of forward contracts such information is of little value. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Firms describing themselves as management consultants, but possessing expertise in various fields including management practices, were engaged by the Department of Northern Development in the last 12 months to carry out an economic survey of horticultural plantations situated on the Gascoyne River in Western Australia. 
In addition, firms of management consultants with a similar wide field of interest and expertise were engaged by the Pilbara Study Group, a joint Federal/State body, to provide specialised technical information on various aspects of developmental projects such as port development studies, environmental studies, infrastructure studies, town planning studies, etc. in connection with the overall study of proposals for the development of the Pilbara Region of Western Australia. 
Also a firm of management consultants of a similar kind was engaged by the Burdekin Project Committee, a joint Federal/State Committee, to carry out a study of the interdependence of the Burdekin Basin and the city of Townsville in future developmental planning in that region. 
The Secretary of the Department, who is joint Chairman of the Steering Committee for the Pilbara Study and joint Chairman of the Burdekin Project Committee, is the approving authority in respect of all the abovementioned consultancies, exercising this authority jointly in the case of the Pilbara Study Group and the Burdekin Project Committee 
Bird's Rural Management Pty Ltd, in association with Australian Consulting and Management Co Pty Ltd; J. C. Clough and Son Pty Ltd; Crooks, Michell, Peacock and Stewart Pty Ltd; Davy Ashmore Pty Ltd; Maunsell and Partners Pty Ltd; Meg McLellan and Partners Pty Ltd; R. M. Parsons; W. D. Scott and Co Pty Ltd; and Technic 10 Pty Ltd. 
$97,245, plus allowances etc. to a maximum of $1,750. (Note: only the Australian Government's share of the total cost of the consultancies arranged on behalf of the Pilbara Study Group and the Burdekin Project Committee has been included in the figure quoted. ) 
Department of the Northern Territory: Research and Development Staff (Question No. 872) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
28; 
Darwin and Alice Springs; 
Forestry: Research with the propagation of indigenous trees, erosion control, conservation type activities, fire and associated ecology studies. 
Fisheries: Research into life cycles, growth patterns, catch efforts on various prawn and fish species in Northern Territory waters; 
Wildlife: Research into distribution of fauna, the development of wildlife reserves and identifying and controlling the effects of possible mining ventures; 
$280,000; 
The decisions are made by me and are based upon my Department's recommendations. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Research and Development Staff (Question No. 883) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) The  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board issued a statement on 2 1 August setting down the full details of recent discussions with the U.S.S.R. on sales of meat. This subject has received wide publicity and I am advised that a copy of that statement has been sent to the office of the honourable member. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) Slaughtering establishments from which meat may be derived for export to the U.S.A. are certified annually, on 1 April, by the CVO of the Australian Department of Agriculture to the United States Department of Agriculture. In between these annual certifications, slaughtering establishments are listed or de-listed on the Chief Veterinary Officer's certification to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, though de-listing may occur at the instigation of U.S. reviewing officers in Australia. 
In August 1974 there were 94 slaughtering establishments listed from which meat might be derived for export to the U.S.A. and 13 not listed. 
Comparable figures for August 1973 were 94 listed and 10 not listed and, for August 1972, 90 listed and 13 not listed. 
January 1974, 17; February 1974, 31; March 1974, 24; April 1974, 56; May 1974, 40; June 1974, 69; July 1974, 85 and August 1974, 172. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The Minister has pointed out that there are two issues involved in this part of the Question. 
First, the current policies of the Australian Wool Corporation, and secondly, the question of the Corporation's longer term marketing proposal. The statement to which the Member for Wannon has referred was made in the context of the Corporation's purchases over a particular period. The Minister continues to stand behind the commercial judgment of the Australian Wool Corporation. The attitude of the Minister has therefore not changed. 
The proposal mentioned in the question refers presumably to the Corporation's longer term marketing proposals as submitted in its report on wool marketing. The Minister has stated that he is in basic agreement with the broad proposals put forward by the Australian Wool Corporation, but that he is not yet in a position to commit the Government to the proposals. Further, he has indicated that many of the detailed marketing aspects need to be considered. An Interdepartmental Committee is at present examining these aspects and will be reporting in the near future. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the answer to the honourable member's question as follows: 
and (2) Amounts appropriated to the Department of Agriculture for the purpose of making grants for research have been utilised as follows: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
in reply- The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  said, according to my interpretation- perhaps I misunderstood him- that the amount of money made available in this program is only small. 
-For this beef roads project In the next 3-year period the Queensland Government will receive $24m and Western Australia will receive $5m over the same period. The rate of expenditure is significantly higher than that of the previous beef roads programs. Admittedly inflation and increased costs come into the question but certainly the program over the next 3 years is equal to if not greater than the rate of spending, taking into account the inflationary factors, in the previous programs. This is, I believe, as it ought to be. 
I should like to deal also with the suggestion of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  regarding the more concentrated link-up with the breeding and fattening areas behind the Ingham and Tully areas on the other side of the range. The whole objective of the beef roads program is to integrate areas or regions to allow store cattle to be moved quickly straight off their mothers, that is, weaner cattle to the fattening areas, or alternatively to allow cattle from the fattening areas to be able to be moved swiftly to meatworks. At the same time in the breeding areas the roads allow a lot of cast for age cows that would obviously not be able to walk by droving on stock routes to get to markets. The whole of the beef roads program is a long term plan. In fact, the first beef roads program started in about 1943 with the meat encouragements agreement between the Australian and British governments to increase beef production. Some millions of dollars were spent in the channel country roads. There was a lapse then until the early 1960s, when the beef roads program, as we know it now, came into force. 
In this Bill we are dealing specifically with Queensland. The Gulf Country is recognised as one of the most outstanding and safest of the breeding areas of Australia. One objective is to increase calf survival, which in many areas is still very low- a figure of 35 per cent is not uncommon in places around Burketown- by allowing young cattle to be moved off their mothers as fast as possible into the fattening areas on the coast of Queensland, or into the brigalow and associated areas around the Rockhampton, Burnett, Mackay, Belyando and Suttor areas. The roads were designed for this reason. 
The Normanton-Julia Creek road was the first to be built. This road, of course, made a tremendous contribution to this Gulf area not only in terms of cattle being turned off but also in terms of allowing people to move into areas where roads previously were not good, particularly during the wet season. The further link-up with the Burketown area towards Cloncurry also allows cattle to be moved in another direction to be railed at one of the stock rail heads. On the eastern side the very important road from Lynd to Charters Towers, which has been referred to, allows cattle in the basalt areas to be moved into the fattening areas of Charters Towers or, as the new program unfolds, into the developing brigalow areas, particularly area 3 of the brigalow scheme. This, of course, involves a further extension of the road from Charters Towers to Mount Coolon and then into area 3, the northern part of which is centred on Nebo. 
At the same time the development of area 3 has been helped with an arterial beef road from Dingo to Mount Flora which goes right through the middle of the MacKenzie-Isaac countryright through some of the most uninhabited cattle country in Australia until a few years ago. This road has completely opened up the country. Together with a feeder road from May Downs on to the old Bruce Highway, it allows cattle to be moved either from Dingo by rail or road train into one of the meatworks at Rockhampton. It allows store cattle to be moved from the northern areas- from the Charters Towers and Belyando Suttor areas- into the brigalow country, it also allows fat cattle or store cattle to be moved into the meatworks and the fattening areas of the Mackay region. In other words, the whole of the beef road system is one of integration. Of course, the idea of beef roads in the Channel country is to allow the utilisation of the Northern Territory bitumen across the Barkly Tablelands. These roads in the Channel country were built to enable cattle to be moved both in and out of the Channel country to railheads that service Brisbane or Rockhampton or north to Townsville itself. 
When the current 3-year program is completed there will, of course, be a tremendous increase in access to many areas that have suffered greatly in terms of non-availability of access for the movement of both store and fat cattle, particularly in the brigalow areas of Queensland where there is a joint Commomwealth and Queensland Government project to develop huge areas of brigalow country which in their native or virgin state are almost useless. The carrying capacity of many parts of the brigalow areas 1, 2 and 3 in their virgin state was perhaps one beast to 100 acres. Now they are producing anything from one beast to 4 acres to one beast to 8 acres depending on the composition of the improved pastures and, of course, the seasons. One of the great benefits of beef roads is that cattle is able to be moved off particularly during adverse seasons. Perhaps the value of beef roads has been no better demonstrated than in the Channel country itself because one of the great problems of the Channel country was the difficulty of getting young cattle that had been brought into the Channel country from the Northern Territory out of that area in periods of drought. Unless this can be done they could be caught in this area and tremendous losses would occur. Despite periodic droughts the availability of wheeled transport now allows cattle to be moved out when the necessity arises. 
I think that I have dealt with the main points. I have not mentioned roads in the Northern Territory or the Kimberley region because this Bill does not pertain to them. But it is obvious that the principle I have enunciated in regard to this legislation must apply to those roads, and that is the need to be able to integrate breeding areas with fattening areas and fattening areas with the meat works or railheads. I am pleased to say that the Government has accepted the beef road program as a vital part of the development of Northern Australia and that it will certainly increase the rate of spending in areas where there can be no question that there is economic justification for this money to be spent. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
According to details published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics there were no exports of meat from Australia to the U.S.S.R. in the years 1968-69, 1972-73 or 1973-74. Details of exports in the years 1969-70, 1970-71 and 1971-72 were as follows: which some 62 per cent was used in pasture production, principally for beef and sheep grazing, 20 per cent in wheat production and IS per cent in other cereal production. Horticultural, vegetable and other crops accounted for the remaining 3 percent. 
Actual levels of use and comparative percentages are shown in the table below: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The most recent published figures showing usage of superphosphate by rural industry type are for the financial year 1971/72. Total usage was some 3.1 million tons of 
I appreciate the concern expressed by the honourable member for Leichhardt about the supply of nitrogen and for that matter other fertilisers to the sugar industry and other industries. I also share this concern because the trend today in the world is for there to be not only shortages of some types of fertilisers but very substantial increases in the price of essential fertilisers largely due to the increases in fuel prices. It would seem to me from an examination of the nitrogenous fertiliser situation in Australia that there is plenty of capacity to produce nitrogen here because the main basis of nitrogenous fertiliser is ammonia which is manufactured from reforming natural gas naphtha, or refinery gases.. 
Two investigations are being carried out at present by the Industries Assistance Commission. One relates to the bounty on the manufacture of nitrogen. The other, which is perhaps the more important, relates to an investigation into the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers- that is the subsidy which enables nitrogenous fertilisers to be made available to primary producers at the lowest possible prices. I believe that my views in respect of fertilisers are well known in this Parliament. 
I might say that they are also well known to the Cabinet. I do not think that the Leader of the Country Party ought to be too cocky; he needs to remember that it was his Government that took off the bounty. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Dairying Research Act 1972 I present for the information of honourable members the annual reports of the Dairying Research Committee for the years ended 30 June 1 973 and 30 June 1 974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No grants have been provided from moneys appropriated to the Department of Northern Development to organisations or individuals to undertake research. There are no authorities coming under my control as Minister for Northern Development. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) At the time when the expiry of the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Act was announced the Australian Government indicated that it considered that the original aim of this subsidy had been met and it was no longer an appropriate charge to be carried by the taxpayer. The benefits of the phosphate bounty were found to accrue disproportionately with most benefit going to larger users in the more prosperous rural industries. 
Any possible re-introduction of the bounty would be decided having regard to all the circumstances at the time. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) Applications approved to 1 July 1 974: 
Farm build-up 2,008; 
Debt reconstruction 3,8 1 7. 
Applications rejected to 1 July 1974: 
Farm build-up 1,603; 
Debt reconstruction 3,560. 
Average assistance paid per approved case to 1 July 1974: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The information sought is as follows: 
Over the Tour years of its existence (to 26 July 1974) the Marginal Dairy Farms Reconstruction Scheme committed $ 14.9m, predominantly for dairy farm amalgamation. There were 1 136 applications received under this voluntary scheme. Of these, 205 withdrew prior to consideration. Out of the remaining 93 1 a total of 576 proposals were approved. 
The Government has now replaced this Scheme with the considerably broader and still voluntary Australian Dairy Adjustment Program, which will run to 30 June 1976. Assistance to the dairy industry beyond that date will be determined in the light of advice from the Industries Assistance Commission. 
(2) 
On information supplied by States, the average amount paid to vendor marginal dairy farmers in each State each year- i.e. average approved purchase price ($)- was as follows: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I ) to (4) As announced by the Prime Minister on 1 1 September 1973 the Government decided to make special arrangements with the Australiam Wheat Board in relation to sales of wheat to developing countries in 1 973-74. The Prime Minister stated in this release that: 'We agreed in principle to credit terms up to 12 months for developing countries. The difficulty in this year is, as you know, that we could sell all our wheat for cash. This, however, would disappoint, in fact it would break faith with a great number of developing countries which have been accustomed to receiving wheat on credit and some of them need wheat very badly this year because of local conditions, and we didn't want to leave them in the lurch just because they had to get credit, as they always have, whereas other countries, this year were prepared to buy for cash. It was agreed that credit may be extended for periods in excess of 1 2 months in exceptional cases and the Government would, in such cases, bear the additional cost to the wheat industry'. 
The Wheat Board was advised of the Government's decisions and its co-operation was sought. Subsequently the Board concluded sales on credit terms to a number of developing countries. 
With respect to the sale to the Arab Republic of Egypt, I should add that on 22 October 1973 the Wheat Board was instructed in writing to adhere to a negotiating position previously agreed to under which the Board had offered 1 million tonnes of wheat to Egypt on credit terms. This instruction was in response to a decision by the Board, taken after an offer of wheat on credit terms had been conveyed to Egypt, to seek to conclude the sale on a cash basis. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) See (1) above 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
This year, the Australian Department of Agriculture has been or will be involved in the following projects which include a fisheries resource survey component: 
1 ) An investigation into the feasibility of establishing a gill net fishery for tuna and other species off the east coast of Tasmania. 
An assessment of the extent of the squid resources off the South Australian coast with the view to establishing a commercial fishery. 
An investigation into the possibility of establishing a fishery for squid off the Tasmanian coast. 
4 ) An investigation into the feasibility of catching snoek in Bass Strait at times when these fish cannot be caught by the existing fishing methods. 
5 ) An assessment of the pelagic fish stocks off the south eastern coast of Australia using the aerial spotting technique. 
An investigation into the feasibility of establishing an otter trawl fishery off the coasts of South Australia and Tasmania. 
An investigation into the feasibility of developing two boat mid-water and bottom trawling technique for fish in Bass Strait. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Since 2 December 1972 the Australian Department of Agriculture has been involved in the following projects which include a fisheries resource survey component: 
1 ) An assessment of the pelagic fisheries resources off the South-east Coast of Australia using the purse seine method. 
An investigation into the feasibility of establishing a purse seine fishery for tuna off the coast of Western Australia. 
) An assessment of single boat mid-water trawling and its potential for catching unexploited pelagic and semi-pelagic fish off the New South Wales coast. 
An investigation into the feasibility of establishing a drop line fishery for deep sea trevalla in the Bass Strait area. 
5 ) An investigation into the possibility of establishing a deepwater crab fishery along the edge of the continental shelf off the Victorian coast 
An assessment of the squid resource off the Victorian coast with a view to establishing a commercial fishery. 
An assessment of the prawn resources in the eastern area of the Great Australian Bight. 
An investigation into the feasibility of establishing an otter trawl fishery off the Victorian coast. 
An assessment of the potential for fish trapping off the coast of Victoria. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The importance and interdependence of services towards overall herd improvement such as progeny testing, sire survey, herd recording, and artificial insemination have been and continue to be recognised by the Government. 
These services are provided by State organisations with financial support from the Australian and State Governments in addition to fees paid by producers using such services. 
For 1974-73, the Australian Government is providing $279,544 for sire surveys and herd recording, as part of the assistance to States under the Australian Extension Services Grant. 
Proposals have been made seeking funds for progeny testing and herd improvement activities, from the monies authorised for the Australian Dairy Adjustment Program. Within the $28m made available for 1974-1976 under that Program, the Government saw an essential need to give first priority to direct assistance to farmers. 
The question of what forms of assistance might be accorded to the dairy industry beyond 30 June 1976 is currently the subject of a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. Organisations interested in progeny testing and like activities for the improvement of dairy herds could if they wish put their views to the Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Test and compulsory slaughter is being carried out in Western Australia and Tasmania only. 
) This is a matter for the States. 
No compensation is paid except in Western Australia and Tasmania. 
The question of payment of compensation for eradication of brucellosis is a matter for the States but the honourable member will be aware the subject of compensation is currently being examined by the Industries Assistance Commission which has been requested to report by 31 March 1975. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Vessels are not permitted to load wheat, oats, barley and grain sorghum for export until the cargo spaces and designated ships stores and galley areas have been inspected and found free of insects and sources of contamination. 
Inspections of grain loading vessels are carried out on behalf of my Department under the authority of the Exports (Grain) Regulations. At most ports the inspectors are State Departmental officers. At Melbourne, Geelong, Portland, Darwin and Fremantle the inspectors are Australian Department of Health quarantine inspectors. 
Quarantine inspection of vessels as to rodent infestation and other matters extends to other vessels as well as those loading grain. 
) See (1 ) as to the ports designated therein. At ports where officers of State Departments carry out ship inspections under the Exports (Grain) Regulations there is continuing liaison with Department of Health quarantine inspectors on matters of mutual concern. Decisions on methods of vermin eradication, however, are a responsibility of the Department of Health. 
I am advised by my colleague, the Minister for Health, that his Department recognises alternative methods of rodent control in different situations and degrees of infestation; and that in doing so it is in accord with World Health Organisation guidelines. Baiting and trapping are among the recognised methods. Sodium fluoracetate ( 1080) is accepted as an effective poison. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Australian Wool Corporation has advised that the appendices to the Corporation's Report on Australian wool marketing will be available in the week commencing 12 August 1974. 
Yes. 
Not applicable. 
The appendices comprising some 130 printed pages cover five topics central to the movement of the Australian wool clip from sheep's back to consumer. They include a substantial amount of technical and mathematical data, some of which required extensive further analysis and review. This, together with subsequent editorial requirements, has taken several months to complete. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) To carry out a review of the management, structure and organisation of the International Wool Secretariat on behalf of the Governments of Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. 
McKinsey and Company Inc., London. 
Cost to Australia $56,769. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There has been no allocation from consolidated revenue funds for wheat storage on a non-recoupable basis. The provision and management of wheat storage facilities have always been recognised as the responsibility and prerogative of the State in which the wheat is grown. 
However, in 1955 a special loan to the Australian Wheat Board of up to $7m, repayable over 20 years, was authorised under the provisions of the Loan (Emergency Wheat Storage) Act, to enable the Board to erect emergency storages. Borrowings against this loan, of $6.4m, have now been repaid. 
In 1969-70 the previous Government approved borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank to erect emergency storages to accommodate the greatly expanded supplies held by the Board as a result of the 1968-69 record crop. These borrowings, amounting to $23.6m, have since been repaid to the Bank. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the question asked by the honourable member 
Yes. 
and (3) It has been decided that no assistance will be given. The governments of developed countries do not, as a general rule, contribute to the cost of participation by primary producer organisations in the activities of nongovernmental bodies. Such assistance is usually eschewed by farmer organisations so as to preserve their independence and avoid any suggestion of governmental influence on their attitudes. In addition, Australia already contributes to the finances of international agencies such as FAO and ILO, whose participation in the meetings of IFAP is of very material assistance to the effectiveness and success of the meetings. The Australian Government thus already assists the IFAP in an indirect way. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The present salary range for a meat inspector, grade 1 , employed in the Australian Public Service is- 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have no knowledge of the discontinuance of the tuberculosis or brucellosis testing program. One of the objectives of this Government in consultation with the States has been to accelerate the eradication of contagious cattle diseases in Australia, particularly those diseases which can be transmitted to humans and which affect our exports of meat. I shall certainly make inquiries into the matter the honourable member has raised. 
Pursuant to section 39 (3) of the Australian Wool Commission Act 1970-71, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Wool Commission for the year ended 30 June 1972 and the concluding report by the Commission for the period 1 July 1972 to 31 December 1972. These reports include financial statements and the Auditor-General's certification of the Commission's accounts. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1973, I present for the information of honourable members the interim annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Although this Bill was originally introduced in this House on 3 April 1974 1 seek the indulgence of honourable members while I repeat the second reading speech I made on that occasion when the aims and intentions of the Government were set out in clear and concise terms. In introducing this new legislation affecting land prices in the vicinity of declared growth centres in the Northern Territory, the Government is seeking to provide some form of control over land prices as a part of an overall planned program of rational urban development which has particular application to Darwin. Speculative increases in land prices on the outskirts of Darwin have been evident in recent years and in the process of expansion of urban leasehold systems in the Northern Territory where the reserve price system applies, it is essential to remove the speculative content from acquisition costs so that the public can secure land eventually at reasonable prices. My colleague, the former Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Enderby,  outlined in a comprehensive Press statement on 15 February 1973 a co-ordinated program of urban development in the Northern Territory, including the provision of this type of legislation. At that stage, South Australia had the Murray New Town Act of 1972 operating and other States have since considered similar legislation. Because the provisions of this new legislation, which will apply only to the Northern Territory, modify some of the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act which applies throughout Australia, it is not considered appropriate that the modifications should be brought in by way of a Northern Territory ordinance but rather they should be brought in by way of a Federal Act through this Parliament as companion legislation to the Lands Acquisition Act itself. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority to stabilise the prices of land in the Northern Territory required, or likely to be required, in connection with urban development. This process is regarded as an important aspect of large scale acquisition by Government for urban development and is designed to prevent speculative rises in the market value of land held in private ownership. The area of greatest interest in the Northern Territory is the general area within a radius of about 96.5 kilometres of Darwin in which there is a fairly large number of undeveloped and unused 64.75 hectare and 129.5 hectare freehold blocks granted about 100 years ago when South Australia had control of the Northern Territory. Some of this freehold is still held in the names of the original grantees, some is held in the name of descendants of the original grantees while some have passed, over the years, through the hands of various purchasers at ever increasing prices. In areas surrounding other towns in the Territory the impact will not be so great in that the areas adjacent to those towns are either Crown Land or are held under rural leasehold tenure such as pastoral or agricultural leases. 
The Bm provides for the declaration initially of an investigation area in which persons authorised by the Minister may carry out investigations on private land to determine its suitability for urban development. The period of investigation may be any time up to a maximum of 2 years. When investigations are complete, the Bill provides that the Minister may declare a development area in which all land may be the subject of acquisition under the Lands Acquisition Act within a specified period not exceeding ten years. Provision is made for the Registrar-General for the Northern Territory to note on all tides affected, the declaration of a development area. This will have the effect of drawing to the attention of those purchasing land that the land may be acquired by the Government for urban development. The Bill also contains provisions which restrict development of the land, for example, new buildings or major improvements except where authorised by the Minister, or any major change in the use of the land from that use applying at the date of declaration of the development area. This is designed to curtail attempts for speculative reasons to improve the land or put it to optimum use because of the declared urban development. 
In the case of financial hardship occuring, there is a provision which permits the Minister to take appropriate action for the acquisition of the land under the Lands Acquisition Act. In any development area where the Government moves to acquire property under the Lands Acquisition Act, the provisions of that Act will in effect be modified so as to provide for compensation to be paid on a basis which will have regard to (i) the base value or market value of the land as at the date of declaration of the investigation area; (U) a value increase factor determined by the Valuer-General; (iii) any additional improvements approved by the Minister added since the date of declaration of the development area. The value factor or factors which will allow for normal increases or decreases in the value of land will be fixed by the Valuer-General having regard to information available and be set out in the form of a determination and lodged with the Minister. This percentage increase or decrease will be notified to the owner by the Minister and be accepted in a court or arbitration determination as the adjustment to be made to the base value at declaration, by reason of the time lapse until the acquisition date. 
The normal provisions of the Lands Acquisnon Act will generally apply, except that the effective date for the base value will be the date of the first declaration of the investigation area and the only increase in value set will be that fixed by the Valuer-General being a normally expected increase rather than a speculative increase resulting from knowledge of the development itself. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Livestock Slaughter Levy Act 1964-1973 to provide for the extension, for a further period, of 2 1/2 years from 1 January 1975 to 30 June 1977, of the special levy on live-stock slaughterings imposed initially in January 1969, to provide finance for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for scientific research in connection with the processing of beef, mutton and lamb. Apart from the extension of the period of the levy, all other provisions will continue unchanged. The initial proposals for this levy were submitted by the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council and fully supported by the Meat and Allied Trades Federation and the Australian Meatworks' Federal Council. These organisations suggested a continuation of the levy for a further 7 years, but my Government feels that as the Industries Assistance Commission has been asked to report on the question of rural research and promotion of rural products by 5 July 1 976, the levy should be continued for a further period of  2Vi  years only, pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations. 
The service and investigation section of CSIRO has used funds obtained from the levy, together with a matching Australian Government contribution, to assist meatworks in many fields including meat quality control, sanitation and hygiene, preservation and processing and utilisation of meat, schools on ageing of meat, storage and packaging; all of which are of increasing importance in the meat trade. The section has also published reports and information in the form of newsletters on its work and findings. Section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960-1968 requires that an annual report be made to Parliament on the operations of the Act and the use of the funds. Funds from the levy, on current estimates, provide finance to allow a continuity of operations over the period in question. In accordance with the Government's wish to use the term 'Australia' rather than 'Commonwealth', the opportunity has been taken to amend the Act in this respect. Also due to metric conversion minor weight amendments have been made. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, which is complementary to the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Bill 1974, is to amend the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Act 1964-1973 due to the adoption of the metric conversion system and the change in the name of the Department of Primary Industry to the Australian Department of Agriculture. The dressed weight of cattle specified in the Bill remains the same except that the weights are converted to 90 kilograms and 100 kilograms respectively. Representatives of industry have agreed to these changes. I commend the Bill to honourable members as a necessary adjunct to the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Bill 1 974. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
It is a fact that the Australian export cattle industry centred on northern Australia has always been in a precarious economic position. Firstly, it is a monoculture, unlike the cattle industry in southern Australia where cattle production is actually a series of enterprises complementary and supplementary to other forms of primary production. In northern Australia the land use is a specialist enterprise and virtually all of the cattle product has to be exported to precarious world markets. It is a fact, because of policies within Japan, which are related to its own domestic problems, because of over-supply of beef as a result of increased prices a year or so ago in the United States, that there are still large stocks of meat on hand in those countries that import beef from Australia. The Government recognises this problem. It has been active for some time now in consultation with the industry, particularly in the north, in an attempt to get the industry to take the initiative to bring forward proposals for some type of a stabilisaton scheme such as those of which other Australian industries have the benefit; that is, a scheme which will assist in stabilising producers' incomes. Several years ago, when prices were, relatively speaking, very high, was the time when a stabilisation scheme should have been looked at to ensure the security of the industry when prices dropped at a later stage. This matter is under investigation. I can assure the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party that particularly in places like the Northern Territory, the Gulf country of Queensland and the Kimberleys this is a serious problem, but it is an inherent problem. It is a problem which has been faced by the cattle industry ever since it started in those areas. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Act 1970 to provide additional financial assistance of $4.4m to the Queensland Government towards the cost of completing certain works in phase 1 of stage 1 of the Bundaberg irrigation project. Under the 1970 Act, a grant of $ 12.8m was provided for the construction of Monduran Dam, which will provide the main storage of the project, Gin Gin Channel and an associated pumping station which will link the Kolan River and Burnett River sections of the project. The state undertook to finance the balance of the works in phase 1 out of its own resources, involving the construction of tidal barrages on the Kolan and Burnett rivers and water distribution systems. 
It became clear by mid- 1973 that the cost of the works being financed by the Australian Government would considerably exceed the funds available under the Act and the Queensland Government submitted a request for a further grant of $4.4m. The cost increase was attributed, in the main, to the unusual and rugged nature of the terrain through which Gin Gin Channel is being constructed, to the limited experience in Australia in the design and cost estimation of the pumping equipment to be installed in association with Gin Gin Channel, and to substantial increases in construction site allowances which were not envisaged when estimates for the project were finalised. The general escalation in salaries, wages and construction materials also contributed to the increased cost of the works being financed by the Australian Government. The Snowy Mountain Engineering Corporation was engaged by my department to advise on the revised cost estimates. 
Monduran Dam will provide a storage capacity of 584,000 megalitres and provide an assured supply of water of 128,000 megalitres annually. The dam is virtually complete, Gin Gin Channel is about 60 per cent complete and the pumping station is at an advanced stage of design. The State has completed the Kolan tidal barrage, construction has commenced on the Burnett tidal barrage and one of the supply channels is likely to be in operation by the end of this year. 
Over the past year, the Australian Government has undertaken a comprehensive evaluation of the whole of the Bundaberg Irrigation Project (phase 1 and phase 2). The Department of Northern Development, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, various State Departments and the Bureau of Sugar Experiment Stations have all contributed to this evaluation. It is now nearing completion and the Australian Government will closely examine the final report. However, to ensure that the progress of phase 1 would not be held up pending the finalisation of this report, the Australian Government offered emergency assistance to the Queensland Government in April 1974 of up to $350,000 to enable the State to carry on with essential work on Gin Gin Channel. In the event, this fund was not called on because of the slackening of progress due to the unusually wet conditions. Work on the various components of phase 1 is now in full progress. 
Phase 1 of the project is aimed principally at providing a surface water supply to a large number of cane-growers in order to reduce the pressure on groundwater resources to levels commensurate with the long term yield of these valuable aquifiers It will enable other canegrowers currently with insufficient or unreliable sources of water, to stabilise production to the capacity of their sugar assignments, and it will also provide water to a number of growers at present totally reliant on rainfall. In all, phase 1 will enable the stabilisation of production on 23,300 hectares, mainly under cane, and will also assure a supply of about 12,500 megalitres of water annually from ground and surface sources for urban and industrial uses in Bundaberg and the neighbouring shire of Woongarra. Phase 2 of the project has not yet been commenced. Together with phase 1, it will almost completely protect the sugar industry in the Bundaberg region against the ravages of long dry spells at critical stages of plant growth. Those familiar with the Bundaberg region will vividly recall the enormous losses sustained by the industry during the 1 964, 1 965 and 1969 droughts when the six mills in the region between them only achieved 64 per cent of their aggregate mill peak allocations. 
Recent seasons have been most advantageous to canegrowers throughout Australia. Seasonal conditions have been good and sugar prices, particularly during the last year, have been very high. In fact, the present London daily price is at an all time record level of 390 sterling per ton. I understand that today it reached 400 sterling a ton. But the sugar industry has a long history of widely fluctuating returns from exports. In the absence of a fully effective international sugar agreement, we must secure market outlets by way of bilateral arrangements and at the same time underwrite our supply commitments by secure levels of production. 
In this context, the provision of financial assistance to the Queensland Government for the construction of key elements of the Bundaberg irrigation project and for Kinchant Dam in the Mackay sugar producing region is an important aspect of our plans for the industry. 
I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
All livestock submitted for slaughter at export abattoirs and the meat derived from such livestock is inspected during all stages of the production process- from the live animal to the production of meat. Meat imported into the United States is subject to inspection before entry is permitted for human consumption, and it is assumed that it is the details of meat refused entry by the United States authorities that is sought by the right honourable member. Details of meat refused entry into the United States are published in the Annual Report on Foreign Meat Inspection presented to the U.S. Congress. For 1973 the quantity of Australian beef rejected was 7,782,037 lb and mutton and lamb 2,638,567 lb. The details sought in regard to 1974 have not yet been published by the United States Meat Inspection Service. 
The rejections mentioned in (1) above comprised 1 .08% and 10.92% respectively of beef and mutton and lamb imports from Australia in 1973. 
State authorities in Australia are responsible for the disposition of meat passed as suitable for human consumption but not passed for export. In so far as the United States is concerned it is not possible to say for what purposes the meat refused entry was used, but very little was returned to Australia for any purpose. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
By agreement between the two parties, the terms of sale, prices received and amounts and types involved in the Corporation's recent sale of wool to the Peoples Republic of China are confidential matters between the Corporation and the Chinese authorities. 
The sales were not on credit. 
The wool was sold at the same prices as were available at the time to all other users of Australian wool. It will be drawn from the stocks of the Corporation. 
The Corporation's decision to sell this wool followed detailed technical discussion in Peking between officials of the Australian Wool Corporation and representatives of the P.R.C. on the latest developments in Australia on the system of selling wool on the basis of objective measurement. The sale was of a trial nature and based on full objective specification. The Corporation considers that this sale was useful in that it opened the way to acceptance by China of the new selling methods based on objective measurement now being strongly promoted by the Corporation. 
-The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1) In accordance with the provisions of the Wool Industry Act 1972-73, the Australian Wool Corporation was operating a flexible reserve price scheme at wool auctions during the period referred to. Guidelines provided to the Corporation in respect of the conduct of reserve price activities require the Corporation to test a declining market but not to defy a genuine downward trend in the market. 
Prices of wool at auction had declined progressively throughout most of the 1973-74 wool selling year and towards the end of the year the Corporation had been testing the market to ascertain whether the decline represented a short term or long term trend. During this period the Corporation had not been forced to purchase more than 24.3% of offerings in a week. 
When sales resumed in July last the Corporation continued to test the market at the closing level of the 1973-74 season and in doing so purchased in excess of 60% of auction offerings which had been considerably enlarged because of the cancellation of earlier sales. 
Whether in following such action the Corporation departed from the guidelines turns on a judgement as to whether the Corporation should have continued its testing role as long as it did. The Minister for Agriculture had not been formally consulted on the Corporation's policy during the July auctions, but had been advised of the likelihood of a weak market during July. 
The Minister has stated that whilst in his view the actions of the Corporation could have been regarded formally as outside its guidelines, he accepts that the Corporation did not have the power to cancel or significantly reduce wool supplies at auction without the concurrence of other members of the Joint Wool Selling Organisation. The Corporation in fact had made representations to J.W.S.O. to defer all sales. Also it urgently requested the Board of Principals of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers of Australia to reduce quantities rostered for sale in Sydney, and was refused. The Corporation was in close consultation with the  Chairman  of the Australian Council of Woolbuyers and ascertained that buyers were willing to accept postponement of sales. 
During the July sales, the Corporation purchased some 8 1 ,000 bales of wool in its reserve price activities. The overall average cost of the Wool approximated $200 per bale. 
To finance its purchase in July, the Corporation drew on credit from the major Trading Banks, the repayment of which is guaranteed by the Australian Government. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
According to details published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, there were no direct shipments by air of fresh, chilled or frozen meat from New Zealand to Brisbane during the 1 2 months ended July 1 974. Import data for August 1 974 are not yet available. 
Details of transhipments of meat from New Zealand through other States are not available. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) On 16 September a meeting was held between representatives of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union, the Australian Departments of Agriculture and Overseas Trade, the Western Australian and South Australian Departments of Agriculture, producers and exporters. This meeting, which followed representations I had received about the export trade in live sheep and the impact it might have on employment in Australian abattoirs, was chaired by Col. McArthur, Chairman of the Australian Meat Board, at my request. 
The purpose of the meeting was to fully discuss all major issues concerning the trade in live sheep. The meeting decided to establish a sub-committee to look at the future shipment of live sheep from Australia. The sub-committee is to comprise representatives of the organisations mentioned above and is to meet in the near future in an effort to reach agreement on the future of the live sheep export trade. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
In June the Australian Meat Board estimated that exports of beef and mutton to the United States of America in 1974 would be 50,000 tonnes less than for 1973. Since making that estimate industrial stoppages have affected slaughterings and it is probable that the final exports for 1974 will be appreciably less than the Board's estimate. 
Imports from Australia of beef and veal and mutton compiled from United State official statistics were as follows: 1972: 330,000 tonnes 1973: 32 1,000 tonnes 
On 1 July the Acting United States Secretary of Agriculture announced that imports for 1 974 were estimated to be 549,000 tonnes but see ( 1 ) above. 
1974: 49.6 per cent 1973: 52.3 per cent 1972: 53.7 percent. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
) and (2) There are no country quotas established under the beef import quota scheme recently introduced by the Canadian Government. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
(a) July 1973: 184.99 U.S. cents per kilogram 
December 1973: 193.78 U.S. cents per kilogram 
July 1974: 147.20 U.S. cents per kilogram 
August 1974 141.92 U.S. cents per kilogram 
The approximate f.a.s. equivalent of the prices in ( 1 ) as published by the Australian Meat Board were as follows: 
1 16.73 Australian cents per kilogram 
1 12.39 Australian cents per kilogram 
80.35 Australian cents per kilogram 
76.35 Australian cents per kilogram 
The above f.a.s. equivalent excludes any allowance for rejection insurance premiums. 
V.LP. Fleet  (Question No. 1092) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Minister for Agriculture will lead the Australian Delegation. Its full composition is under consideration. 
Australian Government representatives have taken an active and constructive part at the three sessions of an intergovernmental preparatory committee for the Conference. Against this general background the following comments relate to the specific questions. 
The Food and Agriculture Organisation and the World Food Conference Secretariat have each made proposals related to a global grain stock pile and Australia is currently engaged in discussions with a view to achieving a viable scheme. 
The Australian Government will be making a substantial contribution of up to $A2.7m to fertiliser aid to developing countries this financial year within the context of the FAO International Fertiliser Supply Scheme. 
It is to meet the objectives outlined in the question that the Australian Government favours the negotiation of international commodity arrangements with price provisions. The Australian Delegation will encourage the Conference to call for negotiations where positive results are likely to be achieved. 
For the information of honourable members I present 2 reports entitled The Pilbara Study' and 'The Industrial Potential of the Bowen Basin Region of Queensland'. Due to the limited availability of the report on the Bowen Basin, I have arranged for reference copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 964 (Hansard, 27 September 1973, pages 1714-1715) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
and (3) Not applicable. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The base structure of the dried vine fruit index contains an allowance for the operator's labour and management as a constant item. Since it is part of the constant items in the index it is not indexed forward each year as part of the calculations to assess movements in cash costs of production under the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Scheme 1 97 1 -75. 
No, because as noted above these calculations are not carried out. 
In the base period of the index the operator's labour reward is calculated on the basis of a leading hand's rate as determined by the Dried Vine Fruit etc. Industry Award. 
The River Arbitration Committee, also called the Interstate Arbitration Committee, in South Australia is a committee of growers which carries out an advisory and consultative role in matters associated with wage determination in the industry. However, final decisions on award rates of pay are made by the Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The relevant award for workers in the dried vine fruits industry is the Federal Dried Vine Fruits etc. Industry Award and the current minimum rate for adult males under that award is $68.10 per week. The figure of $78.20 quoted in the question as the award for an employee capable of working without supervision does not appear to be based on the above-mentioned award. 
Not applicable. 
The Bureau's Dried Vine Fruit Index is designed to measure the annual changes which have occurred in cash costs (including family labour but not the operator's labour) in the dried vine fruit industry. The results of the index are then used in the annual determination of dried vine fruit base prices as specified in the Dried Vine Fruit Stabilization Scheme 1971-75. However, the results are available to any individual or organisation who wishes to make use of them together with a full explanation of the method of calculation. Consequently, these documents are also available to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Not applicable. 
The managerial allowance in the base period of the index was arrived at after consultations between industry and the Government. However, like operator's labour it is included in the constant items in the index and is consequently not indexed forward in subsequent seasons. 
The managerial allowance does not contain interest on capital. Interest on operator's equity is included in the constant items of the index as a separate figure, while interest actually paid is treated as an indexable item. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The data provided in Appendix Table A2. 10 of the Green Paper were all obtained from publications of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. More recent information in respect of gross value of rural production and index of volume of rural production appear in the Bureau's quarterly publication titled 'Trends in Australian Rural Production and Exports', the last issue of which was released in September this year. The December 1974 issue is expected to take account of expected changes in gross value of rural production in 1974-75 resulting from the recent devaluation of the Australian dollar. 
The 1974-75 data on farm income and farm costs have not yet been published officially by the Bureau. As in other years, it is expected to release this information early in the new year. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
In the report on Rural Policy in Australia Table A2.13 presents a summary of Australian Government intervention measures related to the rural sector. The total within group values, in 1972-73, of the measures which have been announced by the Government as having been withdrawn or intended to be withdrawn are as follows: (a) Group A- nil, 
Group B-nil, (c) Group C-nil, (d) Group D-nil, (e) Group E, $29.5m, (f) Group F, $56.7m, (g) Group G, $66.0m, (h) Item 2, $44.7m, (i) Item 3, $1 1.8m. 
In interpreting these totals it needs to be noted that the value of the measures withdrawn are as at 1972-73 and not at the time of their actual withdrawal. In particular, since 1 972-73 there have been a number of changes in the overall mix and value of intervention measures affecting the rural sector. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
21 March 1973, 2 April 1973, 10 April 1973, 23 May 1973, 6 August 1973, 12 March 1974, 15 May 1974. 
Staff in Regional Office, Brisbane. 
30. 
Safe and efficient evacuation of building. 
Yes. 
I understand that it is a fact that the Premier of Queensland is introducing legislation in the Queensland Parliament which will in effect ban the operations of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation in Queensland unless with the express approval of the Premier. I believe that to be a most irresponsible action. I find it incredible that such a move is being made because one of the most important statutory authorities in Australia has been the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority and, since the change, the Snowy 
Mountains Engineering Corporation. It is recognised in world circles as a construction authority and an advisory authority on water conservation and other associated matters. What this will mean, of course, is that the provision of federal finance to Queensland for water conservation development will have to be reviewed. There is no question about that. In the recent Budget $4.4m was allocated for the Bundaberg scheme and $3m for the Clare weirs, the commencement of the Burdekin scheme itself. A major flood mitigation scheme is under investigation at Proserpine. We have already provided some money for that. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is involved in it. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is also investigating on behalf of the Australian Government a major scheme in relation to the Pioneer River. All of those schemes have been put up by the Premier of Queensland as schemes deserving of federal finance. I do not know what is behind the motives of the Premier. But the Queensland Government, to put it in pretty rough terms, is cutting its own throat. 
If this Australian Government is to make federal finance available to build water conservation projects in Queensland it will insist that it has the advice of federal agencies, particularly when the federal agency is of world standard, as the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is. Up to the present time there has been close collaboration between the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, my Department and the Queensland Irrigation and Water Supply Commission. There has been excellent co-operation between these departments. The matter will have to be gone into very thoroughly because the total cost of the Burdekin scheme will involve hundreds of millions of dollars and most of it will have to be financed by the Australian Government if the scheme is feasible and also because of tremendous importance not only to water conservation in the Burdekin but also for Townsville itself. The Australian Government would insist that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation operates in that area as an adviser in working out detailed plans for the development of the Burdekin scheme. 
-The current situation is that this matter is under consideration by the Government. Certain environmental problems have been raised. These have now been satisfactorily resolved between the Australian Government and the Government of Western Australia. At present, I am having discussions with the Treasurer regarding certain aspects of financing this proposal. When those conditions are straightened out, I will be in a position to make an announcement regarding this scheme. 
-The honourable member knows full well that meat is one of the world's best sources of protein. He would also know that there is listed on the notice paper for discussion a matter of public importance dealing with this problem. I expect it to be well aired by both sides of the House in that debate. 
In the main the contribution of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  was, I believe, non-political although he did make a few passing references to the politics of the matter. I hope he will allow me to deal with the matter in a similar vein. It is perfectly true that the principal reason for the crisis in the beef industry today is the collapse of the world price of beef. I hope the House will allow me some indulgence for a few minutes to deal with some aspects of the history of the beef industry. The cattle industry of Australia is a unique industry. Before the war the major areas of Australia which contributed to beef exports were in northern AustraliaQueensland, the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys. In fact very little beef was exported from southern Australia. At that time the principal type of beef exported was the chiller type carcassesthe small carcasses such as those of poll herefords or Aberdeen Angus and frozen carcasses. That was the main type of trade. Australia, with the Argentine, dominated the world beef trade. During the war, of course, there was an upheaval. The Governments of Britain and Australia combined to try to provide Britain with beef. Then the emphasis was on frozen beef as distinct from chiller beef. There was some stability during the war and after the war until 1954 when rationing ended in the United Kingdom. 
The domestic Australian beef market was not lucrative for northern Australia and the Northern Territory. The beef was purely for the export market. As I said before, very little export beef came from southern Australia. The 15-year meat agreement was introduced in the early postwar period. The British Government actually asked the Australian Government to use its best endeavours to increase beef production to provide Britain with a ready supply of meat. We did this. At that time the Australian Government spent money on beef roads in the Channel Country and took other measures to increase beef production. In 1958 the position was somewhat similar to the present position. The world beef market collapsed. Honourable members who were associated with the beef industry then would know that the deficiency payments under the 15-year meat agreement- perhaps to a minor degree but to some extent- were able to prop up beef prices for Australia. I can remember very vividly going to meetings in 1958 of the Australian Meat Board and of various cattle producers' associations at which doom was forecast. 
Out of the blue, one might say, the American market emerged. Then beef prices rose and continued to rise. From that point onwards we saw a tremendous stimulus in beef cattle production in southern Australia, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, principally as a sideline to the dairying industry. It was shown scientifically that cattle raising in association with subterranean clover and rye grass could improve not only the carrying capacity of sheep but also beef production itself. Since that time, from 1958 through the 1960s and into the 1970s we have seen a steady increase in beef production, particularly in southern Australia. Then arose the Japanese market which, of course, helped tremendously with the American market. The European market opened up and the whole picture of beef production in Australia looked extremely rosy. In fact there was a transformation of the whole structure of the cattle industry. 
For almost 100 years practically all the beef for export was produced north of Rockhampton. Cattle moved from the north to New South Wales, from Alice Springs to Adelaide, for local consumption. But since 1958, during the 1960s and 1970s, there has been a major change in the whole pattern of beef production and a tremendous stimulus in beef production, principally for export. Of course the Australian industry is in the vulnerable position, as it is with other industries such as wool and sugar, that unless it is protected with secure markets, by long term agreements and stable prices violent fluctuations in export prices have a tremendous and disastrous effect. 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party said, there has been a major impetus in cattle production. I understand that the present cattle population is about 30 million. It has been only very fortuitous that in the last 12 months we have been able to hold the turn-off of cattle. There have been industrial disputes. Of course there have been very good seasons in the areas which export cattle and for this reason cattle producers have been able to hold their position. But this will not last. Early next year, after the wet season we will see a tremendous surge of cattle on to the market, and this will be the major problem. 
The whole basis of the Opposition's attack is: What has happened; what has caused it; and what is the Government doing? Firstly, let us make it very clear indeed that the principal crisis is due to the collapse of the overseas markets. The policies of the European Economic Community, which includes Britain, are such that under its common agriculture policy it has a policy of self-sufficiency. When world beef prices increased tremendously several years ago both Britain and Japan bought heavily on a rising market- Chiller and freezer storages were stocked to maximum capacity. As has been so common in recent years in the behaviour of commodity prices- of wool, of sugar- beef prices skyrocketed and then within a matter of years the prices went down to bedrock. It is quite obvious that a country like Australia has to have stability in those industries which export to live, particularly the beef, sugar and wool industries. We have to have policies which will give stability. I think that is agreed to by all members of the Parliament and all those in the industry. The prices today are certainly only about half what they were several years ago. 
-Or less. The areas most adversely affected, without a shadow of a doubt, are in the Kimberleys, the Northern Territory and the northern parts of Queensland. Those are areas of monoculture beef production. They have no wool, wheat, dairying or coarse grain industries to support them. They are basically 100 per cent monoculture cattle enterprises completely at the mercy of overseas markets. What has the Government done? Top level delegations have gone to the EEC to try to persuade the EEC to change its policies to take Australian beef in the short term and to work out long term problems. So far we have not been successful. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has personally gone to Japan and talked to the Minister for International Trade,  Mr Nakasoni  and the Japanese Minister for Agriculture in an endeavour to change Japan's policy from one of simply buying tremendous quantities at one stage and then buying practically nothing, as we have seen over the years, to one of stability. Also there have been top level discussions in Washington with the same objectives in mind, to try to get the United States to change its policies and to help Australia by buying more beef. There have been repeated discussions at the Cabinet level regarding the proposed visit of  Mr Tanaka.  The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party was quite right when he said we have to look at this problem from a multi-basket or multi-commodity approach. Japan desperately needs certain commodities- minerals and sugar, for examples. We may have to have a look at the possibilities of Australia trading with Japan in a multi-basket or multi-commodity relationship rather than having individual negotiations about separate commodities. 
-Because they have stocks of meat on hand now. When prices were rising Japan bought extremely heavily. Everybody knows that most of its storages were chockablock with meat. Also, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party said, there are serious policy problems in the EEC, Japan and the US which mitigate against the importation of meat. 
If the honourable member wants me to deal with this question seriously he should not interject. The Opposition has asked what we are doing. I have told the House what we have done with respect to international negotiations. As regards some areas which are suffering financial distress, such as the brigalow areas of Queensland, which are newly settled, the Department of Northern Development and the Department of Agriculture are co-operating with departments of the Queensland Government. I have approached the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for a complete review of the provisions of the Act which established the brigalow scheme with a view to having at least a moratorium on the fixed types of costs such as rentals and repayments for the beef producers in the brigalow areas. I have also approached the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  with respect to the special problems of taxation in these developing areas. I have been able to arrange for long term carry-on finance of $40,000 for the flood-hit areas of northern Queensland on low interest rates in an endeavour to help producers in those areas who need such help. The overall tax situation is also being looked at. I have been able to arrange for $24m for future beef road construction. I know that this is not the immediate solution; nevertheless it is an expression of faith in the future of the beef industry. There is provision for $24m for Queensland, $5m for Western Australia and quite a large sum of money for the Northern Territory roads. 
The immediate problem, and obviously the one which confronts us now, is one of liquidity. It is a problem of carry-on finance. Without doubt there has to be a release of funds to the crucial parts of industry to allow them to carry on. I am not the Minister responsible for the beef industry, the Australian Meat Board or the marketing of beef. But I can tell the House that from the point of view of the Northern Territory I have taken urgent action. I will have before the Government very soon a proposition in respect of the position in the Northern Territory. The basis of the Northern Territory proposal is as follows: I can inform the House that I had discussions only a few weeks ago with the  Chairman  of the Cattlemens Association of Northern Australia. Last week my 2 Departments were in active consultation with that Association and also with meat exporters in the Northern Territory. Industry representatives are now examining with my Departments a buffer fund proposal. They will discuss this in detail at a meeting of the Northern Territory Cattle Producers Council on 22 and 23 November in the Northern Territory. Discussions so far have helped to firm up several aspects of the proposed scheme and a detailed paper on the Northern Territory beef industry is . being prepared by me. As the killing season is almost over, we have at least some months in which to introduce a stabilisation scheme. This is being looked at seriously in consultation with the Cattlemens Association of the Northern Territory and meat exporters in the Northern Territory. 
Obviously the problem is one of liquidity. I have taken steps in the Northern Territory for consideration of a moratorium in respect of those producers who are in financial trouble over payments to the Government, whether they be for rentals or other types of government finance. On Sunday my Department had discussions in the Northern Territory again with  Mr Tapp  on behalf of the Northern Territory Cattle Producers regarding a further finning of a stabilisation scheme for the Northern Territory. The basis of the scheme is a cattle industry buffer trust account. Money could be provided initially by way of loan either by the Reserve Bank of Australia under Government guarantee or by direct appropriation from consolidated revenue. Loans will be repaid from industry contributions once cattle prices improve and the fund will be self supporting thereafter. In other words, there will be maxima and minima with the Government and industry contributing in the normal way. 
-Why not wake up to yourself? This is a serious discussion. As regards the future, I have always stated in papers I have written and in statements in this House that I believe that of all our primary industries the beef cattle industry is the one that has the soundest future in the long term. It has a comparative economic advantage over other countries in that it can produce calves off grass and it has a comparative advantage also with respect to our immediate Asian markets. I believe that one of the greatest problems it faces is in the international markets where countries will buy tremendous quantities when prices are rising, as they have done with wool and sugar. They then store the goods and then, when the prices are very high, they stop buying. The whole market then collapses. I can assure honourable members that I personally recognise the problem. In the Northern Territory I am doing everything that I possibly can to alleviate the problem. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures, agreed to by the Committee on 15 October, be varied by next considering the proposed expenditure for the Department of Housing and Construction and the Department of Services and Property, followed by the Department of Northern Development and the Department of the Northern Territory. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-Is  the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of Housing and Construction Proposed expenditure, $160,707,000. 
Department of Services and Property Proposed expenditure, $83,3 10,000. 
-The first thing I should like to say to the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  when he criticises this Government for its lack on interest in the north is that more money is being spent now in the north by this Government than by the previous government. 
-Well, the honourable member made a statement that this Government has no interest in the north, but there is more money being spent and there are more projects being undertaken. We may talk about beef roads or water conservation or whatever it might be. The fact is that there is more money being spent now on development projects. That does not mean to say that I believe there should not be a lot more money spent. Let it be made very clear that I have said on many occasions that there ought to be a lot more money spent to accord with the proportion of export income earned from the northern areas and in terms of the proportion of national income that comes from the northern areas. 
Let me simply say this, when the honourable member questions the role of the 104 people in the Department of Northern Development: They administered last year projects worth $37m; this year the projects are worth $46m. Let us have a look at some of the projects; but before I do that I should like to pay tribute to the officers of the Department of the Northern Territory and the Department of Northern Development. The permanent head of the Department of Northern Development,  Mr Livingston,  is a recognised authority in international trade, particularly in the sugar trade. The permanent head of the Department of the Northern Territory,  Mr O'Brien,  is a truly dedicated man as far as the Northern Territory is concerned. They are backed by officers in both departments who are dedicated to their jobs, and I pay tribute to the men and women in those 2 departments. 
The Department of Northern Development was eatablished in December 1972 with the advent of the present Government There have been difficulties in staffing which occur in any new department, but the Department has continued a number of important activities initiated by the previous Government- the Brigalow development, the Gladstone power station, the Bundaberg irrigation works, the Ord River project, the Fairbairn dam projects, the beef cattle roads. Since the new Government has come into office it has initiated a number of important new projects which have been greatly appreciated in northern Australia, such as the compensation scheme for bovine tuberculosis reactors and the new beef roads scheme throughout northern Australia- $24m for Queensland and $5m for the Kimberleys. As the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  mentioned, I am not at this stage able to give him the precise figures for the Northern Territory because they do not come under the same legislation, they are incorporated within the general Northern Territory road program. I can assure him that the amount of money being spent at present on roads in the Northern Territory is certainly greater than the amount spent at any other time. I will deal later with the points made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
Among the new projects that the present Government has initiated are the Kinchant Dam- this involves a $5m grant- a vital water conservation project in the dry areas of the Pioneer Valley of north Queensland; the Julius Dam, which is of vital importance to Mount Isa; the Dawson River weirs which, of course, are important to Baralaba. In Townsville itself we have the Ross River Dam, stages 1 and 2. A $3m grant was provided in the last Budget for the Clare weir, which is the first stage of the Burdekin River project and which will be common irrespective of whether a dam is built at Urannah or on the upper reaches of the Burdekin River itself. But a start has been made. An amount of $4.4m has been provided for the Bundaberg scheme to keep it going while further analyses are carried out. I have mentioned the Queensland beef roads scheme which will involve an expenditure of $24m. I might say that the new beef roads scheme in Queensland is orientated towards what one might call a crash program for developing the giant brigalow areas of that State, which have tremendous potential in terms of the development of the cattle industry. There have been important contract investigations. It is well recognised that there is a complementarity between the great Bowen basin- one of the largest black coal areas in the world- and the Pilbara region which, of course, has tremendous reserves of natural gas, iron ore, solar salt and other minerals. The complementarity between the 2 regions for steel is obviousiron ore, on the one hand, and coal on the other. All of those matters are being looked at. It is quite clear that the future of the Pilbara will depend upon the stripping of natural gas and the establishment of a petro-chemical refinery works. All of these are new projects which are being looked at in consultation with the Western Australian Government and the Queensland Government. 
In the field of agriculture we recognise the problems with respect to the Ord River project. I for one have never lost faith in the Ord River project. I believe that we will solve the problems in the future and, given the tremendous areas of fertile soils in association with the availability of large amounts of water, the area will become a magnificent asset for Australia in future years. There is no need for me to dwell here much on the sugar industry. I find it difficult to understand why the honourable member for Herbert said that we are not out drumming up markets. I spend perhaps more time than I should in trying to get long term agreements for the sugar industry. I think that the Australian Government, in consultation with the Queensland Government, the Sugar Board and the CSR Company, have been highly successful in this field since the breakdown of the International Sugar Agreement. I assure the honourable member that we are losing absolutely no time or effort in getting further markets for our sugar. 
It is hoped that early in the New Year there will be discussions with the Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland, which will involve the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other Ministers, on the development of the Pilbara and the Bowen Basin. All of those things are being undertaken. I mentioned today in a debate on a matter of public importance what I am endeavouring to do for the beef cattle industry in the Northern Territory which is where my jurisdiction lies. I am hopeful that we will have a floor price scheme or a stabilisation scheme to stabilise the industry in the Northern Territory and to provide the liquidity which is badly needed in northern Australia, and most certainly in the Northern Territory, the Kimberleys of Western Australia and the northern parts of Queensland. 
-Yes. Perhaps I should answer a few questions at this stage. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  raised a point regarding housing. I am not skilled in this field in terms of housing construction, but I will most certainly draw his comments to the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  I could not agree more with the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory about the need for an allweather link. The last wet showed quite clearly the vulnerability of northern Australia with respect to the supply of food and material. Without doubt there has to be an all-weather road Unking Darwin, Alice Springs, Tennant Creek, Katherine, the Barkly Tableland area and so forth with southern Australia or with Queensland. We have taken action with respect to the construction of the roads. The honourable member knows full well the agreement reached with respect to the railway line. In the immediate short term I am endeavouring to arrange for a barge- I think the honourable member for the Northern Territory is interested in this matter- to be located if possible at Lake Wood which is reasonably full, and Newcastle Waters. What worries me is that if there is a downpour of rain the Newcastle Waters road will be cut again. That is a very serious matter as regards the supply of distillate and fuel as well as food to Tennant Creek. I am endeavouring to negotiate with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  the supply of a proper barge at Newcastle Waters to allow for the transportation of essential materials. I have had a look at the possibility of a pipeline being constructed across there for the supply of distillate. It is obvious that Tennant Creek itself is in a vulnerable position in regard to the supply of fuel. I am deeply conscious of all of those things and I am doing my best to try to accelerate work in that field. Shipping is a problem. The taking over by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd of the 'Cape York' has added serious problems and posed serious questions regarding the supply of essential materials to the Northern Territory. That matter is being looked at. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and I are collaborating to ensure that there will be sufficient shipping to supply the needs of Darwin. 
I have spoken about the cattle industry in the Northern Territory. I have instructed my Departmentsboth of them- to give top priority to the cattle industry in the north. They are working in very close consultation with  Mr Tapp  and the Cattlemen's Association of North Australia. The great problem, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory knows, is that there is a big difference between a stabilisation scheme for a product like beef or meat and one for, say, wool, which one can store relatively easily in comparison with beef or meat. But this matter is being looked at. I am hopeful of being able to put a concrete proposition to the Government soon after the talks which are to be held next month with the Northern Territory cattle industry. 
There has been a record allocation to the Northern Territory in the 1974-75 Budget. The total allocation this year is $265m compared with $129m in 1971-72, the last full financial year when the present Opposition was in Government. It cannot be denied that there has been a very large increase in spending in the Northern Territory, and that it is needed. I am not going to say that this is enough. But there has certainly been a great increase in spending. The increased allocation following on the amounts made available in the 1973-74 Budget clearly indicates the priority we accord to the social and economic development of the Northern Territory. The new works program provides for the commencement in 1974-75 of projects to the value of $107m. One of the more significant items is the allocation of $ 12.4m to the field of health. Then there is the provision that has been made for extensions to the Darwin Hospital, a new health clinic, health centres at Ludmilla, Adelaide River and Mataranka, extensions to the Katherine Hospital and a new hospital at Tennant Creek, as well as improved facilities at various Aboriginal settlements. A sum of $ 1.4m has been provided for police services, which includes the new police stations and quarters at Elcho Island and Timber Creek, together with improved facilities at Darwin. In the field of Aboriginal advancement a sum of $ 10.5m has been provided for electricity, water supplies, sewerage services, internal roads, air strips and administrative buildings at various settlements. 
Almost $30m has been allocated for education to provide for free schools and primary schools at Tea Tree, Katherine and Wave Hill together with improvements to the Darwin High School, and also schools on settlements and missions, extensions to existing schools and improvements to the Alice Springs School of the Air. Here we have something which is extremely important to the Northern Territory: The Stokes Hill Power Station, stage 6, and the more significant projects in terms of this facility will be commenced on behalf of the Department of the Northern Territory. That work will involve the expenditure of around $13.4m. The sum of $15.7m has been provided for Government housing, and of $9.3m for urban land development in the new suburbs. Development roads throughout the Territory itself have been estimated to cost $ 1.5m. I think honourable members can see that there is activity. I have provided them with the total amounts in terms of financial undertakings to give them some idea of the expenditure on specific projects. 
The provision of operating expenses for the Department of the Northern Territory totals $35.6m. Provision is made here for the general welfare services and community activities of $1.5m to provide for the maintenance of State wards and other children, assistance to missions for the care of children, maintenance of mental patients and the care of those people in necessitous circumstances. Also, we have provided support for those activities of a community nature such as contributions to the YWCA, the YMCA and other youth centres in the Northern Territory. Funds have been provided also for the continuing upkeep of the public recreation and other reserves operating under the trustees appointed for this purpose and $1.5m in the form of subsidies for local government authorities established in Darwin and Alice Springs. Further, $lm has been provided to the Northern Territory Reserves Board for the operation and improvement of facilities under its control. The honourable member for the Northern Territory knows that the Government has taken a very sympathetic view with regard to flood relief. What we have been able to do is unique. We certainly have been able to assist a lot of people in  all walks of life in the Northern Territory who have suffered hardship as the result of floods. In the course of the last wet season Hercules and other aircraft were brought in to supply food when the roads and other means of communication were cut. 
Funds have been allocated for the operation of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I accept the points made that this will be a very delicate situation in the near future. I have no doubt that honourable members opposite would take some comfort from the results of the Assembly election held on 19 October. Frankly, I would prefer to see a different balance in the Assembly. I do not necessarily mean the balance that I obviously would like to see. I would prefer that there was to be a strong Opposition in the Assembly. The position will not be easy; I recognise that. The Administrator of the Northern Territory has already had talks with Goff Letts who, I understand, will be elected as the leader of the CountryLiberal Party in the Northern Territory. I will be having talks with him as soon as possible, probably next week, depending on whether the Constitutional Convention meets. 
-Yes, I understand it may be. But that will not alter the fact that I will be having talks either in Darwin or in Canberra on this matter. The operations of the Legislative Assembly, the Administrator's Council and the role of the Administrator will be discussed in the immediate future. I have made it quite clear in this House, in the Northern Territory, and when I was in Opposition that it is my objective to give to the Northern Territory people a greater say in the operations and the affairs of the Northern Territory, particularly in those fields which they are qualified to administer and of course in those fields in which they know best what the people of the Northern Territory want. 
-Previously, under the Northern Territory Administration Act, the elected representatives were able to deal with ordinances with powers of assent resting with the Administrator and the Governor-General. This will give them greater power. All of these matters will be looked at. This is the undertaking which I gave to members of the Legislative Council as it then was some months ago: As soon as the new Assembly is elected I will certainly sit down with its members and we will progressively go step by step through the problems which obviously will not be easy in the first few years of government in the Northern Territory. 
I will end on that note. I thank all honourable members from both sides of the Committee who have taken part in this debate. It is not a difficult area to administer in terms of administration itself. As I say, I have 2 very good Departments. I am pleased that one is located in the Northern Territory where it ought to be. Its headquarters are there. It is not an easy department to administer when the responsible Minister has to spend so much time in this Parliament or in Cabinet; nevertheless, I am very fortunate in having extremely good senior officers who work in close consultation with the elected body, previously the Legislative Council and now the Legislative Assembly, and the various organisations in the Northern Territory. At the same time in Canberra, I have a very good department in the Department of Northern Development which is deeply conscious of the need to develop the northern parts of Australia. 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr GiIes)-No.  That is the business of the Committee on which it will make up its own mind. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Minerals and Energy 
Proposed expenditure, $44, 1 8 1 , 000 
-There is no doubt that the export cattle industry in northern Australia is facing a financial crisis. 
-The Leader of the Country Party says 'all over Australia'. I am saying that in northern Australia, in the monoculture areas of north Queensland, the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys in Western Australia where it is a case of cattle and cattle only, grown basically for export and export only, is where the very serious problem is at present. I understand from the Minister for Agriculture that the overall position is under active consideration by State Ministers for Agriculture and himself. My jurisdiction is in the Northern Territory. I have explained to this House that I am in constant consultation with the cattle industry representatives in the Northern Territory. I am planning to put a proposition to the Government as soon as the cattle industry has had time to consider it in full. I understand the export meatworks and the executive of the Cattlemen's Association in the Northern Territory have agreed to it. 
The proposal is basically for a deficiency buffer fund, a floor price system, which will provide liquidity to the cattle industry in the Northern Territory. I am exploring the possibility of having the same principle applied to the Kimberleys region of Western Australia and to north Queensland, the areas used only for growing cattle for export. I do not know whether that is constitutionally possible and I am getting advice on it. I accept the proposition that liquidity is the most important factor needed at present to preserve the status quo of the cattle industry in the northern areas. The one area that comes under my jurisdiction in Queensland is that of the brigalow scheme. I have been in consultation with the Prime Minister with the objective of alleviating the repayments of bona fide brigalow settlers who are in financial trouble. As to the Northern Territory, I have instructed my Department to adopt a sympathetic type of moratorium attitude with respect to rents on repayments on government leases, and so on, in the Northern Territory. I can assure the honourable member for Brisbane that I am fully conscious of the problem particularly when the coming wet season is finished. 
After all, there are now good seasons in the north. When the wet season is finished and the cattle that are fattening throughout northern Australia must be slaughtered, they must go to the export meatworks, or die in the paddocks. That is the time when the real problem will occur. I am quite certain that every honourable member will realise that there is a difference between trying to store a perishable commodity like meat, unless it is tinned, and storing products like, say, wool or sugar. I am taking up with the Government the possibility of giving foreign aid to those countries which desperately need protein. This may be one of the most effective solutions of the storage problem in the short term. 
In conclusion, as I have said time and time again, I have the utmost faith in the future of the Australian cattle industry. It has a world com.paritive economic advantage in production. I believe that if we can get stability and common sense into the buying habits of some of the importing countries, such as the European Economic Community, Japan and the United States of America, rather than a situation in which large quantities of meat- major buying- are purchased at one time and practically nothing is bought at other times, we will get some sanity in the world market. All of these matters are under consideration and I assure the House that I will do everything possible to solve this problem. 
The theme of the motion moved by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  is that this House requests the 
Government urgently to present a program to stimulate rural production. I will not enter into the arguments that have raged in this House over the last year or so about the rights and wrongs of various depreciation allowances, taxation allowances, the price of superphosphate, subsidies on nitrogen and other matters. I am concerned with the principle that lies behind this motion. The basis of the motion is to stimulate production through measures of confidence, whatever form they may take. The principal theme is to increase the production of primary products in Australia. This is an admirable concept. I do not disagree with it. But, as the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  well knows, almost every additional ton of produce that we produce we must sell at prices profitable to the Australian producer or, if we give it away, it obviously has to be financed by the Australian Government through the taxpayer. 
Let us have a look at some of these industries. Let us take wool, for example. I know that there is criticism of the level of the floor price, but let us be quite serious about this. If it were not for the Australian Government's policy, the wool industry today would be in a very serious financial position; in fact I would say that it would be in a state of chaos or a state of utter collapse. I do not know whether honourable members opposite are aware of the latest figures, but if my memory is right the Australian Wool Commission's stocks in hand up to this week total more than $ 1 50m worth of wool. The Commission is buying at the rate of 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the offering. Who could possibly advocate a policy of expansion of the wool industry under these conditions? Every extra ounce of wool we produce has to be exported to countries, some of which have policies of resistance to present purchases of Australian wool. The Government itself is doing everything possible to stimulate markets overseas. The honourable member for Gwydir did not tell us what he would do in terms of expansion of the wool industry. It is no good expanding the wool industry unless we can sell our product at a price which is satisfactory to the producer and unless we can get markets; otherwise we have in fact - 
-Wait a minute. I will deal with grain soon. The Opposition selects the commodities to be dealt with in this debate. People want to have wool and people want to wear clothes. Apparently under the policy of the Opposition they would not be allowed to wear clothes. 
We have debated the beef industry time and time again in the House in recent weeks. It has been mentioned at length by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  The policies of the European Economic Community are opposed to us. It is extremely difficult despite the efforts that the beef industry and the Australian Government are making, to regain entry into that market. The whole question is being looked at in the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The policies of Japan and the United States of America at present are such that they are not buying our beef in the quantities they bought before. The question of foreign aid was raised. It may be that this is a solution to this problem. After the next wet season thousands and thousands of fat cattle- they are fat nowmust come on to the market. It would be against every Government policy to allow those cattle, for example, to die in the paddocks in the event of drought or simply to wither away with old age. Obviously the cattle will have to be killed. Obviously there will have to be a policy to use the beef in tinned, frozen or chilled form. 
As regards grain, with respect to the forthcoming World Food Conference let me say that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  will be attending that conference. The delegation will be led by the Minister for Agriculture. The World Food Conference, of course, is held under the auspices of the United Nations primarily in response to the world grain shortage and the rising prices. The Ministers have proposed an approach which, I believe, is flexibile. It is in line, of course, with the Aus.tralian Government POliCY of having a positive and constructive plan to reduce the food gap in developing countries, in particular with a view to supporting, where possible, proposals which have the support of the majority of the developing countries and of course have the support of the developed countries. The Australian delegation, within the framework again of the Aus.tralian policy, in Rome will support programs for expanding agricultural production and increasing technical aid to developing countries. It will favour the establishment of a system of world food security and the establishment of world grain stocks to be negotiated in the appropriate trade forums of the world. We Will support also, as a matter of policy, proposals to develop food information and early warning systems throughout the world. All these are admirable proposals and motions which will be considered in full by the developing and developed nations at the Rome conference. 
No mention has been made of one of the serious world shortages at the present time- that of sugar. Australia is one of the few countries in the world that have the capacity to greatly expand production, but the same argument again applies. If production is expanded every ton of the increase must be sold at a reasonable price. Eighty per cent of our production of sugar at present has, in fact, to be exported. We have the capacity to expand. But the sugar farmers of Australia have bitter memories of when they expanded very heavily some 12 years ago when the world price was high and just after they expanded the world price dropped to Stg 12 a ton. It has taken years and years to recover. We have to guard against a repetition of the downturn in prices in the sugar industry as we have seen in the beef and wool industries. I am doing everything possible within my jurisdiction, in association with CSR Ltd, the Sugar Board and the Queensland Government, to ensure that we have secure markets, and in particular long term markets. When we have those markets we will expand. Our policy is to provide the world with sugar at a price that is fair and reasonable both to the producer and to the consumer. 
I wanted to deal with the principles of this proposal. I have no quarrel with the actual concept behind what the honourable member for Gwydir mentioned. It is a concept, I believe, to supply the world with food. It is a concept which will develop Australia and Australian resources which in some respects, in terms of being able to increase production of food, are unparalleled throughout the world. I cannot stress too much that in a country such as Australia, where everything in the primary producing field and in the major industries has to be exported, it would be sheer folly to embark on policies to increase the production of wool, beef or any other commodity, unless we have secure markets. The policies of the Australian Government are to have security of markets and security of prices with respect to quantity; and, in the other respect to help developing countries as much as we can and to explore the possibilities of providing food for foreign aid, particularly those types of food that are high in protein such as beef. I believe that they are admirable principles. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) I refer the right honourable member to the details concerning the Department of Northern Development given in the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 41 published in Hansard of 3 October 1974, pages 2233-2239. 
Department of Minerals and Energy: Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 275) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In respect of questions ( 1 ) and (6) the Australian Wheat Board, which has the direct responsibility for the marketing of Australian wheat, has supplied the following information: 1. (a) Delays have not been experience due to a shortage of shipping space. 
Shortage facilities presently available particularly at Newcastle and Sydney have been an inhibiting factor in building up port terminal stocks to cope with a heavy grain snipping programme. 
There has been a definite shortage of railway capacity, including rolling stock, in New South Wales. Other States' railways have been able to cope with the full movement programme. 
Industrial troubles have been experienced in all mainland exporting States except Queensland, with the major effect on exports being from New South Wales. 
) Other factors which have caused delay to wheat shipments include- 
Inclement weather, (rain, winds and rough seas which have hindered vessels' movements). 
Shortage of labour. 
Cleaning and/or fumigation of vessels prior to loading. 
Loading of vessels with other grains at the silo berths. 
Delays have occurred at all ports from which wheat has been shipped, with the exception of Brisbane and Gladstone in Queensland, from which ports very little wheat was available for shipment this year. Sydney and Newcastle have been the most affected ports with numerous delays throughout the year from all the factors mentioned in ( 1 ) above, culminating in a strike of silo employees at both ports for five weeks from 1 1 July to IS August. It is assessed that delays in New South Wales from all causes affected the disposal of around 520,000 tonnes of wheat from Sydney and about 320,000 tonnes from Newcastle. At Fremantle (Western Australia) 50 working days were lost (202 ship days) with losses of 3 to 8 working days at the Western Australian outports. At Geelong serious dislocation occurred to the shipments of wheat to Tasmania due to industrial trouble relating to the 'North Esk'. Overseas shipments were affected to a limited extent by bans on Greek vessels and a Waterside Workers' Federation strike. In South Australia more than 130 ship days were lost due to various factors as listed in ( 1 ) above. 
It is virtually impossible to indicate total financial losses to the industry due to the dislocation of the shipping programme this year. The nature of the losses is as follows- 
Demurrage paid to shipowners to 16 October amounted to $A640,108 of which $548,842 was incurred at the ports of Sydney and Newcastle. Additionally $A256,006 demurrage is in dispute with shipowners. 
Interruption to the shipping programme has resulted in delayed receipt of payments from buyers and consequent delays in the making of progress payments to growers in respect of 1 973-74 pool wheat by up to two months. 
By reason of the serious delays in shipments from New South Wales the Board has had to seek alternative outlets for New South Wales wheat, not only to maintain shipments against firm sales, but also with a view to clearing country storage to make way for the incoming harvest. 50,000 tonnes of Northern New South Wales wheat is being moved into Queensland for shipment from Brisbane and 40,000 tonnes of Southern New South Wales wheat into Victoria for shipment from Geelong. This will involve extra interstate freight costs of some $200,000. 
Yes. The Board initially programmed to clear virtually the whole of the exportable surplus of wheat in New South Wales but, due to the shipment delays, will now carryover at the end of the crop year (30 November) over 600,000 tonnes of wheat. (This quantity is in addition to normal stocks of wheat and wheat equivalent of flour held by the mills). 
No. 
It is not practical to estimate the extent to which future sales may have been prejudiced. 
Some of the problems mentioned above are not in areas of federal responsibility. As regards industrial disputes, the matter has had the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration and where appropriate direct representations have been made to the unions involved with the aim of minimising the disruption to wheat shipments. I am glad to say that shipments are currently proceeding smoothly. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There is no break-up of the $6.5 million between the two diseases. The allocation amongst the States is specified in the Budget papers for 1 974-75. 
No States have, to my knowledge, been officially 'declared' free of tuberculosis. Tasmania is accepted as being free, and has advised all other States that it is free. 
Figures for testing for the year 1973-74 are not yet available. The attached statistics presented to Standing Committee on Agriculture January/February 1974 show the percentage of tuberculosis reactors for 1972-73. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The figure of $28.7m set out in the Budget Speech as estimated receipts from the Meat Export Charge for f 974-75 was based on estimates made in April 1974 of meat exports for 1974-75. 
Since the estimates were made, industrial disputes in abattoirs, import bans by the EEC and Japan, import quotas by Canada and low prices for imported beef in the United States of America have all affected the estimate. 
The receipts of $6.6m for 1973-74 represents collections for a five months period only. 
Revised estimates of receipts from the Meat Export Charge for the year, based on the charge of 1.6 cents per lb on beef and veal exported and 1.0 cents per lb for other meats, will be in the vicinity of $20m. Collections for the first three months of the year (July-September 1974) amounts to $3.5m compared with the original estimate of $7.0m for the quarter. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a question without notice about interdepartmental committees, that if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with the information. 
If the honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer previously referred to. 
It is a fact that the price of sugar on the world market has reached such heights that sugar is now being compared with gold. The price of sugar is, of course, quite unrealistic, whatever critieria one likes to use. This situation has been caused purely by the function of demand and supply. There is a world shortage of sugar. I regret to say that the price of sugar will go even higher and this will cause further disruption throughout the world's producing and exporting countries. The problem is that the amount of sugar traded on the world market in a so-called free market is relatively small. It is probably less than 10,000,000 tons. Consequently any relatively small variations in world supply can cause violent price movements to the degree that the price of sugar 6 or 7 or even 10 years ago reached Stgl2 a ton, whereas today it is over $A1,000 a ton. Following our inability to get economic provisions put into the International Sugar Agreement at Geneva last year, I stated to various growers' meetings on my return to Australia that I thought we should increase production moderately within existing mill areas as distinct from a major expansion involving tremendous amounts of capital investment in new mills, railways, bulk storage facilities, etc. I must state however, that this matter of production within the State is the right of, is in the hands of, the Queensland Government, not the Australian Government. I am happy to say that the Queensland Government has now decided that there should be an increase in, I think, existing mill areas. I believe this should have been done some time ago because it will be 1976 before the first fruits of increased production are borne. I assure the honourable member that the Australian Government fully supports an increase in production within existing mill areas at the present time to overcome this very serious shortage on the world sugar scene. 
Many statements have been made in recent days in the United Kingdom as well as on the Continent regarding the possibility of a long term sugar agreement between either the European Economic Community and Australia or between the United Kingdom as a member of the EEC and Australia. The position at the present time as we know from British Government sources is that there are proposals for the EEC itself to buy sugar possibly on the world market, and then within the provisions of the common agricultural policy of the EEC to provide that sugar to the member countries of the EEC. I am aware of statements made by the British Prime Minister. I am also aware of the very serious problems facing the refineries in the United Kingdom- Tate and Lyle in particularwith respect to the refining of raw sugar inported into Britain. All of these matters are under consideration at the present time. It is quite clear, to my mind anyhow, that the EEC will have to get sugar from some country. Australia, of course, is one of the few countries that is able to supply sugar. The actual price, terms and conditions, as always, are confidential between the contracting parties. 
-As the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party knows, these are policy aspects which are primarily in the hands of the Minister for Agriculture. These matters certainly are being given very serious consideration, liquidity being recognised as the most important of the pressing problems at this point of time. I can give the honourable member details in respect of the cattle industry in the Northern Territory. There will be a very important meeting within a week between representatives of the cattle industry and the Departments of the Northern Territory and Northern Development and, I believe, Agriculture to consider the possibility of a stabilisation scheme with provisions in respect of maximum and minimum prices to provide the beef producers with a degree of liquidity. The Government is looking at whether this scheme is capable, within the Constitution, of extension to the States. 
In regard to the Northern Territory, there is the Primary Producers Board, of course, and this is being looked at as a possible medium for expansion of credit. The Government is giving sympathetic consideration under the various Acts that it administers, such as the Brigalow Lands Act, to the terms of payment of interest and principle. The Brigalow Lands Act, of course, applies to Queensland. In regard to the Northern Territory, I have instructed my Department to give sympathetic consideration to those companies, properties or individuals who are experiencing financial problems in paying their rent or whatever repayment it might be to the Government, such as meeting interest payments on borrowings or making payments to the Primary Producers Board. However, I will take this point up as a matter of urgency with the Minister for Agriculture to see what progress has been made. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, pages 1714/ 17 15) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developmentsthis is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
Department of Urban and Regional Development: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 382) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) No officers of the Department of Northern Development are engaged on work which could be described as 'research and development work' in the normally accepted sense of the term. However, the duties of a number of Departmental officers involve work of an investigatory and fact-finding nature in keeping with the Department's concern for the development of that part of Australia north of the 26th parallel of south latitude. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Government's conclusions will be announced in due course. 
-the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It is not a matter for a Minister to appoint the Director. The office is a public service position and promotions and transfers to public service positions are made under the terms of section 50 of the Public Service Act. In accordance with this section a selection has been made to fill the office of Director. 

 Mr R. W. Gee.  Mr Gee  is a qualified and experienced Veterinarian with an extensive background in animal health. Immediately prior to his selection as Director, Bureau of Animal Health,  Mr Gee  occupied the position of First Assistant Director-General, Quarantine Division, Australian Department of Health. 
No. The transfer is strictly in accordance with section 50 of the Public Service Act and there is no need or requirement to advertise the position. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) With regard to projects financed from Trust Accounts, whose administration is his responsibility, annual reports containing details of projects financed from the Accounts are tabled in this House each year. 
These annual reports are also available from the Department of Agriculture and copies are distributed to relevant fishery authorities, libraries, companies and interested individuals. 
Progress of projects financed from other sources, such as special grants, are reported in his Department's monthly publication 'Australian Fisheries'. This also applies to projects financed from the Fisheries Development Trust Account and the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
As indicated in the answer to the right honourable member's previous question (No. 1329) all projects financed through his Department are fully reported on in 'Australian Fisheries' and/or in the annual reports tabled in the Parliament as required by the Act under which the particular Trust Account is administered. 
Meat Flown from New Zealand to Brisbane (Question No. 1477) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics there were 1 5.9 tonnes of beef airfreighted to Brisbane from New Zealand during August 1974. Import data for September 1 974 is not yet available. 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States  (Question No. 47) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise a grant of $3m to the Queensland Government towards the cost of constructing a weir on the Burdekin River near Clare in North Queensland. The Burdekin River basin, to the south and west of Townsville, is situated in the dry tropics of northern Queensland. It is the largest undeveloped river basin in Australia close to well developed infrastructure with an annual basin discharge estimated at 8.6 million megalitres (7 million acre feet). Only about 3.6 per cent of the total runoff is at present committed for industrial, urban and agricultural use. 
Eungella Dam on the Broken River, with a storage capacity of 131,000 megalitres ( 106,000 acre feet) and Gorge and Blue Valley weirs on the Burdekin River with a combined storage of 12,600 megalitres ( 10,200 acre feet) are the only existing surface water storages in the basin and their assured yield is fully committed. In conjunction with unregulated flow in the Bowen and Burdekin river systems, the storages provide an annual water supply for irrigation in the lower Burdekin of 83,000 megalitres (67,500 acre feet) after allowance for supplies totalling 12,300 megalitres (10,000 acre feet) for Collinsville town and power station, Goonyella coal development and stock and domestic water supplies. In addition, provision of part of the unregulated flow in the Burdekin is required for delta aquifer recharge by the North and South Burdekin Water Boards to maintain sugar production in the Burdekin delta. 
Associated with the vast and as yet relatively undeveloped water resource, is a flood plain of considerable potential for intensive agriculture. The basin possesses highly productive sugar, rice and beef cattle industries, numerous alternative storage sites on the Burdekin River and its tributaries and significant mineral deposits. 
Rainfall is the major limitation to agricultural production in the area and supplementary irrigation would secure the efficient production of a large range of crops, thereby considerably enhancing the flexibility of the agricultural economy in the region. Sugar yields on the already established cane farms in the region are among the highest in the world, a long-grain rice industry has made good progress over recent years, and the potential for establishing a viable soybean industry has been demonstrated at the Millaroo Research Station under simulated commercial conditions. Other possible enterprises of economic significance are seed beans, horticulture, maize and cattle production. 
The Federal-State Burdekin Project Committee, established in 1973 on the initiative of the Australian Government, is at present assessing the potential for development of resources of the basin for industrial, urban and agricultural development, for power generation and for flood mitigation. A request from the Queensland Government for financial assistance for the Urannah Dam-Clare Weir proposals was first made in 1971 and renewed to the present Government with a high order of priority. The Department of Northern Development, with assistance from State departments and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, carried out a comprehensive appraisal of the proposal. The economic evaluation of Clare Weir and its associated development indicates a sound return to private and public investment on the basis of conservative assumptions on commodity prices, especially in relation to the current state of the international sugar and grains markets. No unfavourable environmental consequences are expected from the Clare Weir development and the project could bring considerable improvements in social infrastructural facilities in existing smaller centres. 
The development which would be based on the availability of water from Urannah Dam is still subject to further investigations and will be considered when a final report becomes available. Although the main function of Clare Weir is, at a later stage, to regulate releases from a major storage on the Burdekin River system, it is large enough to make a significant contribution to the stability of flows in the lower Burdekin River. The Clare Weir site is located on the lower Burdekin River, 5 1 kilometres- 31.5 miles- from the river mouth and some 8 kilometres- 5 miles- upstream from Clare. The structure is designed to minimise siltation. It will be a concrete gravity weir founded on alluvium with an upstream concrete cut-off to bedrock. Collapsible steel shutters about 2 metres in height will be installed to provide the required storage of 15,500 megalitres- 12,600 acre feet-and to allow the passage of major floods in the river. In conjunction with unregulated flows, the weir would assure a supply of some 25,000 megalitres- 20,000 acre feet- for agricultural use on some 2000 and 3000 hectares-5000 to 7500 acres. 
Clare Weir is estimated to cost $3.4m and the associated pumping, reticulation, drainage and other ancillary works $1.2m. Escalation over the construction period would probably bring the total cost to $5. 8m. Clare Weir represents the first significant step in a partnership with the State in the development of the Burdekin Basin. While the programme of studies in progress under the supervision of the Burdekin Project Committee might eventually indicate a range of development options to meet the needs of industry, agriculture, mining and so on, Clare Weir would be an essential regulatory component of any plan for using water released from a major storage on the river system for agriculture along the lower Burdekin or for reticulation to urban and industrial areas along the coast. 
Clare Weir can, in fact, be rightly regarded as a pilot scheme for future development of the vast resources of the Burdekin Basin. The full development of the resources of the Burdekin Basin will be of a long-term nature with considerable national significance for industrial and regional development. It is now over 25 years since the first bold concept of a development plan for the Burdekin Basin was conceived and had the support of the Chifley Government. Clare Weir will now provide the first impetus from an Australian Government in this direction. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable a grant of up to $120,000 to be made available to Queensland for the construction of urgently needed flood mitigation works on the Proserpine River. The grant is conditional upon matching expenditure being provided by the Queensland Government and the Proserpine River Improvement Trust on the basis of 40 per cent Federal, 40 per cent State and 20 per cent local authority contributions and is consistent with the Government's overall approach to the problem of flood mitigation. Following the extensive and disastrous floods which occurred throughout Queensland earlier this year, the Australian Government offered to undertake investigations jointly with the Queensland Government for the preparation of a State-wide plan on flood mitigation. The Australian Government's intention was that such a plan could form the basis of consideration for financial assistance. 
The Queensland Government, in responding to this approach, indicated that one of the works which was considered most urgent involved a flood mitigation scheme for the Proserpine River. In the past, land-owners along the Proserpine River have constructed levee banks to protect their properties, but the capacity of the middle and lower reaches of the river are inadequate to contain even floods which are estimated to occur once every 3 years. The town of Proserpine and adjacent rural areas are therefore likely to be flooded relatively frequently and a scheme for diverting flood waters upstream of the town has been proposed. Detailed investigations of the complete scheme are still in progress and I have arranged for the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to provide expert advice on the proposed scheme. 
The floods of January 1974 created an urgent situation by damaging some levee banks and greatly eroding an existing natural floodwater 'break-out', with the result that flooding caused considerable damage to property and crops. This has created the need for urgent restoration of the damaged works before the next wet season to prevent further widespread damage from even a minor flood. The Australian Government has considered assistance for these restoration works as a matter or urgency to facilitate construction before the next wet season. The works are already in progress and include reinstatement of the damaged levee banks and the provision of better control at the floodwater 'break-out' at a total estimated cost of $300,000. 
This Bill will enable the Australian Government to provide funds towards the cost of construction of these urgent works. The request for further Australian Government assistance for the complete flood mitigation scheme will be considered when the detailed investigations are completed. In keeping with the Australian 
Government's positive and constructive approach towards flood damage restoration and flood mitigation, financial assistance is warranted for this project. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
-As has been outlined in this House several times in answers to questions by myself and the Prime Minister, and in the Senate by  Senator Wriedt,  this matter is being seriously considered by the Government. The Government has accepted the fact that liquidity is a serious problem in some sectors of the cattle industry. We are also looking at the possibility of being able to provide foreign aid in the form of certain cuts of meat in tinned or some other substitute form. All of these matters are being looked at in a practical, sensible way. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960-1973, 1 present the eighth annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974. An interim report of the Committee was presented to the House on 19 September 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Wool Industry Act in accordance with decisions of the Government which were announced by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  on 27 August. Members will recall that during August the Government reviewed the then existing and anticipated circumstances of the wool market and made one of the most important decisions in respect of the wool industry that has been made for many years. In brief, the Government guaranteed the availability of sufficient finance to the Australian Wool Corporation to operate a minimum floor price for wool equivalent to 250 cents per kilo clean for 21 micron wool sold during the 1974-75 season. In response, woolgrowers agreed to contribute a levy of 5 per cent of the proceeds from wool sales in 1974-75 to establish a fund to make good any losses incurred as a result of wool purchases by the Corporation. Under the Wool Marketing (Loan) Act 1974, the Government has already provided $150m. to finance the Corporation's floor price activities. This amount is in addition to a previously existing appropriation of $ 13m and commercial loans drawn by the Corporation to the extent of $34m covered by a government guarantee of repayment. 
Evidence of the Government's determination to support the wool industry during the present period of weak demand for wool is clearly seen in these actions. Not only has the decision to support a minimum price in the market during the season prevented a collapse of wool prices, but the assurance that the floor will be maintained is providing both woolgrowers and wool users with confidence in the future of the industry. In announcing the Government's decision on the support of the wool market, the Minister stated the intention of the Government to assist the Corporation in operating the floor price, and in its general activities in the market, by providing it with adequate powers to manage the supply of wool offered for sale, and by widening its trading powers. 
The Minister also announced that attention would be given to the possible restructuring of the board of the Corporation to provide appropriate improvements, where necessary, having regard to the additional powers to be conferred on the Corporation. This Bill provides for those matters foreshadowed by the Minister. I turn now to the main provisions of the Bill. 
Market Support Fund 
The Bill contains detailed provisions to govern the use of the 5 per cent marketing levy contributed by woolgrowers during the 1974-75 season. In accordance with the wishes of the industry, the relevant provisions have been so drafted as to ensure that the proceeds of the levy 'and their use will be separately identified and accounted for. To this end the levy and all revenue from it will be channelled into a special fund to be established by the Australian Wool Corporation and known as the Market Support Fund. As announced when the decision to introduce the levy was taken, the object of the levy is primarily to provide funds for meeting any losses incurred as a result of maintaining a floor price in the wool market this season. However, since such losses, if any, cannot be determined until after the end of the season, the Bill provides that the levy funds may be put to other uses in the meantime for benefit to the industry. 
Specifically, it is provided that moneys in the Market Support Fund may be used by the Corporation during the season to purchase wool under the reserve price arrangements, to pay advances to growers the sale of whose wool has been delayed by the Corporation's supply management, or they may be invested. Income from investment of Fund Moneys will be paid into the Fund, as will interest on advances made to growers, less administrative expenses incurred by the Corporation in connection with those advances. Also allocated to the Fund will be an amount representing an appropriate charge for interest where money from the Fund is used by the Corporation to purchase wool. As well as maintaining a floor price in the wool market, the Corporation will also continue to operate flexible reserve price arrangements when the market is above the floor. It would be neither practicable nor desirable to differentiate between them for accounting purposes, and accordingly the profit or loss from this market support role will be determined over the total reserve price activity. 
Since revenue and expenses in respect of advances to growers whose wool has been delayed from sale will play a pan in the financial result of the Corporation's marketing operations over the same period, they will be also taken into account in the determination of profit or loss. If a loss results, it will be met from the Market Support Fund. If, on the other hand, a trading profit eventuates, it will be dealt with as profit made in other periods, namely, to help repay any past losses which had been met by the Government, as a reserve against future losses, or for other purposes approved by the Minister for Agriculture and the Treasurer. Any balance remaining in the Fund after losses or profits have been dealt with will be kept as a separate reserve and used for purposes determined by the Minister for Agriculture after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
Supply Management 
The Bill strengthens the hand of the Australian Wool Corporation in ensuring the regulation of the flow of wool on to the market in keeping with demand. Whilst the Corporation already participates in the determination of wool auction sale rosters and the scheduling of offerings, it does not have power to control the quantity of wool offered for public sale. A new provision explicitly confirms the right of the Corporation to withhold its reserve price protection in situations in which it believes deferment of all or part of a proposed offering should be made, but contrary to the Corporation's wishes, the offering is not deferred. 
Extension of Trading Powers 
Amendments are proposed in the Bill to enlarge the specific trading powers of the Corporation. The present powers of the Corporaton in this area were originally designed principally to enable it to dispose of the wool purchased under its reserve price operations, and, although they extend somewhat beyond this, they include restrictions which hamper the Corporation in some transactions. The new provisions will enable the Corporation to be empowered to engage in a wider range of trading activities. The precise extent to which the Corporation will be able to exercise its enlarged trading functions will be a matter for approval by the Minister for Agriculture. Subject to this approval, the Corporation is being authorised to trade not only in wool but also in wool products, to supply wool for Australia's foreign aid programmes, and to process wool and manufacture wool products, or to commission such work. 
These are very wide powers and hence the necessity for some ministerial control over thenuse. It is not envisaged that the Corporation will use all of these powers immediately, but rather as and when circumstances warrant it. The legislation therefore provides a framework for approval to be given to the Corporation to engage in particular forms of trading activity appropriate to the needs and best interests of the wool industry and in accordance with any guidance provided by the Minister for Agriculture concerning the exercise of those powers. Transactions that could be undertaken, for instance, may involve sales of wool on a forward basis as forward selling involves a risk due to market price fluctuations, the Corporation is being empowered to buy and sell wool futures with a view to reducing that risk. The exercising of this power is also to be subject to the approval of the Minister for Agriculture. 
Preparation of Wool for Sale 
A provision is included in the Bill to enable the Corporation to withhold reserve price protection from any lot of wool that has not been prepared and presented for sale in accordance with standards approved by the Corporation. This is intended to discourage careless classing and presentation for sale, and to ensure that the 
Corporation is not obliged to support bad preparation of wool. 
Terms and Conditions of Sale of Wool 
The Corporation is being authorised to restrict its reserve price operations to those sales where the terms and conditions of acceptance, offering and sale have its approval. In this way the Corporation will be able to exert a stronger influence than at present over such matters as, for example, selling charges. 
Membership of Corporation 
In keeping with the increased powers and responsibilities of the Corporation, its membership is being increased by adding another member with special qualifications to the existing 3 members of this category. This enables a wider range of expertise and experience to be available to the Corporation. 
Method of Appointment of Corporation Members 
At present, the members of the Corporation representing woolgrowers are appointed on the nomination of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. This requirement is being maintained, but provision is being made for the members to be selected by the Minister for Agriculture from a panel of names submitted by the Conference. This provision will bring the Wool Corporation into line with similar provisions for the selection of grower representatives on the Australian Meat Board. Provision is also being made under which the Minister for Agriculture may request the Conference to submit additional names to the panel. A further amendment provides that the 4 woolgrower members and the 4 members with special qualifications will retire by rotation. This will be achieved by making two of the initial appointments in each category for a term of 2 years and 2 for a term of 3 years. In this way the retirements will be staggered to avoid the bulk of Corporation membership retiring at the same time. The object is to retain a nucleus of experienced members on the Corporation at all times. 
Consultation with Trade Unions 
The Bill introduces a requirement for the wool Corporation to consult with the trade unions concerned before taking action likely to affect the conditions of employment or the demand for labour in the wool industry. The Corporation already follows a usual practice of consultation with unions on relevant matters but the amendment now formally requires such consultation. 
Minor Amendments 
Included in the Bill are several minor amendments which are either complementary to the major provisions or are designed to clarify and harmonise other provisions of the existing Act where experience in administering the Act has shown this to be disirable. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
The Government does not accept the amendment. The main purpose of this legislation, which of course is concerned with the level of land prices in the Northern Territory, is to attempt to stabilise land prices to a degree so that people in the Northern Territory, particularly those who want to build houses and to build business enterprises, will be in a position not only now but also in the future to have access to land at fair and reasonable prices. The experience of the Northern Territory up to the present has been that it has been virtually a speculator's paradise, particularly around Darwin, as we have seen by the tremendous increases in land prices in recent years. 
Yes. In fact, one of the great problems still is to find out who are the owners of some of this land. Some of the land was freehold tided to people a very long time ago and it is not easy in some cases even to find the owners of some of this land. The principal objective of the Bill is to try to remove the speculative content from acquisition costs so that the public can secure land in the Northern Territory eventually at reasonable prices. 
Most of the discussion tonight took place around clauses 12 and 13. One allegation made by all the speakers from the Opposition was that the Government is trying to bypass the new Legislative Assembly. In fact when this Bill was first introduced on 3 April there was adverse comment within the Northern Territory by members of the Australian Country Party in the Legislative Council to the effect that the Government was attempting to bypass the Legislative Council, as it was known at that time. It was also claimed that the Government was trying to acquire all, or certainly much, of the freehold land within a certain radius of Darwin for future use by the Government. These claims were refuted because neither of them is correct. Honourable members will need only to look at clause 13 (2) of the Bill to appreciate that to achieve a process of stabilised land prices which may show speculative increases due to government announcements on decisions relating to urban expansion requirements it is necessary to declare areas. When this land is acquired the provisions of the Lands Acquisitions Act are modified to the degree set out in clause 13. Because a Federal Act- an Act which is relevant to this Parliament- is being modified and because the Government's objective in this legislation is so intimately related to the acquisition provisions, it is obvious that the Federal legislation is necessary. That is the reason for this particular Bill being debated and considered in this Parliament rather than exclusively in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
Clause 12 provides for the determination by the Valuer-General of the Northern Territory of a value factor which represents the variation in the value of land between the date on which the investigation area was declared and the date on which the land was acquired. The determination of the value factor requires a tremendous amount of expertise, and the person most suitable to determine the value factor is, of course, the Valuer-General. He is a competent person. He is trained in this field. He is an expert. For that reason the Government takes the view that because this is a highly complex matter, because it has to be determined by experts, it should in fact be determined by the best expert in the Northern Territory taking into account all of these factors in determining the value factor. Under the provisions of clause 12 the ValuerGeneral in fact shall determine the percentage increase or decrease, between the date on which the land declared was put within an investigation area- that is, the area is declared at a particular point in time- and the date on which the land was compulsorily acquired, that has occurred in the value of the land not subject to this Act. The Valuer-General will furnish a copy of his determination to the Minister who shall then furnish it to the land owner. 
Clause 13 of the Bill sets out how the compensation for land compulsorily acquired is to be assessed. In short, when the Government and the land owner cannot agree as to the amount of compensation, the amount should be fixed by an arbitrator or a court. This is explained in the following manner: The value of the land at the date on which the land was declared to be within an investigation area, plus or minus a percentage increase as determined by the Valuer-General, plus damage for severance, plus an amount for authorised improvements, but may not include any increase in value arising out of the proposed development by the Government. As the amount of compensation, in cases where the Government and the land owner cannot agree, is to be assessed by an arbitrator or by a court, there is no necessity to make provision for any appeal against that announcement. The land will be acquired under the Land Acquisitions Act. Generally, except as mentioned above- that is in relation to the clause with which I have just dealt- the compensation will be assessed in the same manner as under that Act. 
Great play has been made of the words 'just terms'. The point I want to make to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  is that under section 5 1 of the Constitution this clause relating to 'just terms' was inserted specifically to protect the rights of the States in relation to land acquired. It does not apply to land acquired within the Territories, and this is the thing which must be borne in mind. The meaning of the words 'just terms' as they apply under the Constitution is quite different from the way in which they apply under the relevant Act to land acquired within the States. Apparently what is being made out by honourable members in this debate is that, in summary, we are bypassing the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I have explained the reason for this. The Bill we are considering modifies a Federal Act and the place to modify any Federal Act is in this Parliament. The second point has been made in the debate concerns the value factor. The value factor will be determined by the Valuer-General, who is a recognised expert in this field, taking into account all the components, including when the land was first declared and investigated and when the land is to be acquired, if at all. A determination is then handed down by this expert in relation to the value factor for the acquisition. For those reasons the Government does not accept the Oppostion's amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr McLeay's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
(1)368. 
(2) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Department of Northern Development for the establishment or maintenance of federal headquarters. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The four undersized whales represented less than one half of one per cent of the total catch for that year. 
In view of the reasons given in (3) below no penalty was imposed on the company under the Whaling Act 1960. However, the catch bonus ordinarily paid to the gunners was withheld in each case. 
Individual reports in respect of each undersized whale were received from the gunners concerned and forwarded to the International Whaling Commission. 
Reasons given in the reports were: 
Disposal of a wounded whale. 
Deflection of harpoon from a whale of legal size. 
Two incidents involving the gunner's error of judgment due to heavy sea conditions. 
See (2) above. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have approved appropriate mileage allowance to be paid to members of the National Rural Advisory Council for use of their private vehicles in their capacity as members of the Council. 
Overseas Visits (Question No. 16S7) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  No exercises in civil defence preparedness have been conducted by the Department of Northern Development in the last  18  months. 
The Department, nevertheless, is very concerned with the question of the preparedness and safety of its staff in the event of fire or other emergency. It has appointed Departmental officers to act as wardens on the three floors it occupies in CAGA Centre, Canberra City, and has issued instructions to all staff with the object of minimizing the danger of loss of life and injury in emergencies. 
The Department has consulted with the Canberra Fire Brigade and the Department of Services and Property regarding emergency procedures and is appreciative of the advice and assistance it has received. In addition, valuable information concerning Are and other emergencies was obtained from a recent seminar of 'Fire in High Rise Buildings' organised by the Australian Fire Protection Association with the approval and co-operation of the Australian Government at which an officer of the Department was a delegate. 
The Department of Services and Property proposes to call a meeting of the various Australian Government and nongovernment tenants of CAGA Centre for the purpose of coordinating emergency procedures on a building-wide basis. No doubt the question of the form and frequency of exercises in civil defence preparedness will be raised at this meeting. (2), (3) and (4). See (1) above 
See answer to question No. 548 referred to above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No record is held in the Department of the Northern Territory of any application by a voluntary agency for financial assistance to establish or maintain a federal headquarters. 
See(l). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2 ), (3 ) and (4)1 refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question on Notice No. 41 (Hansard, 3 October 1974, pages 2233 to 2239). 
-Yes, I accept that there is a difference of opinion on sugar between the Minister for Health and me. But I have made very clear to this House the great energy attributes of sugar. I think the Leader of the Australian Country Party is a good consumer of sugar. This shortage is a very serious problem. Australia is now taking steps to increase its production of sugar. This decision has not been taken lightly because as honourable members know 80 per cent of our total production of sugar has to be exported. Also, the growing of sugar is a mono-culture and therefore the sugar industry in northern Australia is at the complete mercy of export markets. As I said, we are taking steps to increase the production of sugar within the existing mill areas. I have said time and time again in this House- I believe all honourable members will agree with me- that before a major expansion of the industry can take place we want to be sure of guaranteed markets through long term agreements with importing countries. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement in full the dairy adjustment program announced by the Government on 8 April. Following that announcement, action was taken to bring in enabling legislation, to provide authority for so much of the program as could be carried into effect by amendment of the legislation passed in 1970 for dairy reconstruction. Parliamentary action was delayed by the double dissolution in May. Once the Government was returned to office, action was taken during the July sittings on the necessary amendments so that elements of the program at the farm level could be given effect. Simultaneously the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and his Department held discussions with the States regarding their participation in the enhanced range of assistance now becoming available to dairy farmers under the program. All States have signified their cooperation after somewhat protracted negotiation. The measure now presented to Parliament will make possible the operation of the program in its entirety. 
Broadly speaking the program provides for a comprehensive range of assistance to enable uneconomic dairy farmers to up-grade their farms to a stage where they can become viable self sustaining enterprises; interest-free loans with flexible repayment periods, to assist the change-over of producers to refrigerated bulk milk supply, with concurrent assistance as necessary to factories; and, finally, relocation assistance for displaced dairy farmers and displaced factory workers. For the convenience of honourable members I have had circulated with the Bill a list of the measures of assistance provided under the program. I seek leave to have this summary incorporated in Hansard. 
It is quite apparent that whoever is advising the honourable member knows very little about the operation of the domestic sugar agreement. It is a fact that the sugar agreement technically expired at 30 June this year but this was extended by agreement between the Queensland Government and the Australian Government. The whole matter of pricing under the domestic sugar agreement is under consideration by the 2 governments. The whole matter of support by the sugar industry to the fruit industry by way of both the export rebate and domestic rebate is under consideration. The mechanism is working, and I am surprised that the honourable member does not know that. There is no breakdown whatsoever between the 2 governments with respect to this agreement. I might add that discussions will be proceeding very shortly with respect to the domestic price and the domestic fruit rebate and I expect to be able to make an announcement shortly. But there is no breakdown whatsoever, and I am surprised that the honourable member did not know that. 
I have just answered a question on this subject. What amazes me is that the honourable member for Angas is even more out of date than the honourable member who asked a question earlier. The honourable member for Angas does not know anything about the subject. He should talk to the Queensland Government which apparently knows better than the Australian Government. That Government ought to be able to acquaint him with the facts on the canned fruit industry. What he does not seem to understand is that the canned fruit industry in Australia is getting sugar at one quarter of the world price. The honourable member for Angas is so far out of date with the facts about the sugar industry that I suggest that he go back to the people who put him up to this question and acquaint himself with the facts. 
-in reply-I thank the House for supporting all 3 Bills which have as their purpose the Proserpine flood mitigation scheme, the extension of the Bundaberg irrigation scheme and the construction of the Clare Weir. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  talked principally about co-operation. He did not speak very much about the Bills. I think I should take up certain points that he did make and relate the facts concerning them. He said that all of these projects were started before this Labor Government came to office. This is just arrant nonsense. The Clare Weir is a brand new project. The Proserpine flood mitigation scheme was not even submitted by the Premier of Queensland until this year. It is a fact that the Bundaberg irrigation scheme - 
-You do not know anything about it. The Proserpine flood mitigation scheme started only after this year's floods. 

-You do not even know what you are talking about. 
-Well, you have never seen the Proserpine River, that is obvious. 
The policy of the Government is well known. The policy with respect to quotas is well known. In effect, there will be no restriction on the growing of wheat under the stabilisation scheme. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Australian Fishing Industry Council. 
The request was refused. 
-The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I ) and (2) It was reported that insects were found when the wheat was unloaded. I am informed that subsequent checks provided evidence that the wheat contained some latent infestation, not detectable by visual inspection, at the time of export. The price at which wheat is sold and any adjustments to that price or other arrangements in respect of claims made by buyers are matters between the contracting parties. 
The vessel was inspected in accordance with the requirements of the Exports (Grain) Regulations and a Grain Loading Permit was issued. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) It was reported that insects were found when the barley was unloaded. The price at which barley is sold for export and any adjustments to that price or other arrangements in respect of claims made by buyers are matters between the contracting parties. 
The vessel was inspected in accordance with the requirements of the Exports (Grain) Regulations and a Grain Loading Permit was issued. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) It was reported that insects were found when the wheat was unloaded. I am informed that subsequent checks provided evidence that the wheat contained some latent infestation, not detectable by visual inspection, at the time of export. The price at which wheat is sold and any adjustments to that price or other arrangement in respect of claims made by buyers are matters between the contracting parties. 
The vessel was inspected in accordance with the requirements of the Exports (Grain) Regulations and a Grain Loading Permit was issued. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) It was reported that insects were found when the wheat was unloaded. I am informed that subsequent checks provided evidence that the wheat contained some latent infestation, not detectable by visual inspection, at the time of export. The price at which wheat is sold and any adjustments to that price or other arrangements in respect of claims made by buyers are matters between the contracting parties. 
The vessel was inspected in accordance with the requirements of the Exports (Grain) Regulations and a Grain Loading Permit was issued. 
-I will check the statement the honourable member made, but I am unaware that the Minister for Agriculture made that announcement. I am aware that there were newspaper reports that a very significant sale of approximately 10,000 tons of beef had been made by Australia to Russia. I must say that when I read that report I was somewhat surprised. I knew that negotiations were going on, but to the best of my knowledge there still has been no contract for this sale. I understand that it is purely a commercial sale, involving Borthwicks and perhaps other export meatworks, of a consignment of beef in the vicinity of 10,000 tons. 
The honourable member will probably also learn, as I have learned, that most of the beef will be fore-quarters. Anybody with any knowledge of meat export would know that sometimes there are technical problems in the sale of forequarters to specific countries. I shall go into the question more deeply, but as far as I can make out the negotiations are still proceeding. Apparently the matter got into the newspapers; how I do not know. I hope, as every other person in this Parliament and in the cattle industry hopes, that the negotiations are successfully finalised as quickly as possible. 
I am unaware of any decision. Certainly there has been no decision to discontinue the assistance given to the States of Queensland and New South Wales with respect to ticks. Of course, the tick areas are in eastern Queensland and northern New South Wales- as well as in parts of the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys. These are the areas where the highest density of beef cattle in Australia is to be found in concentrated specialist zones. Everybody acquainted with the cattle industry knows full well the annual damage done to the cattle industry by ticks. Probably one cannot work it out at current beef prices, but it was as high as $40m or $50m a year. That includes the cost of acaricides and the extra men involved, as well as the measures taken on properties, such as mustering and dipping, to control the tick. I am aware, as other honourable members are aware, that if ticks are not controlled, particularly in relation to clean areas, the extent of redwater can do tremendous damage to the cattle industry in Australia. I shall certainly have a good look at this question and follow it up. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Several years ago, a low fat butter was manufactured and sold in South Australia under the name of 'Mingle'. The product was withdrawn from the market after a short period. Recently some experiments in the production of low-fat butter were conducted by the Victorian Department of Agriculture at the Gilbert Chandler Institute of Dairy Technology, Werribee. A spread containing about 40 per cent milkfat was prepared and had good consumer acceptance in the Werribee district. No further development work is planned, since it is known that independent research and commercial development of a similar product is being undertaken by a large dairy company in Melbourne (Petersville). The company hopes to be able to place the product on the market in the near future. 
Low fat butter-like products have been introduced in the following countries: 
United States of America: where a spread based on about 30 per cent butterfat was made, but was not widely accepted. 
Czechoslovakia: where a butter containing 56 per cent butterfat, has been introduced, but no further details are known. 
Sweden: where a spread (Latt and Lagom) based on a 2 : 3 blend of soy bean oil and butterfat with a total oil and fat content of about 40 per cent has been introduced recently. 
It is probably too early to consider the success or failure of this product. 
United Kingdom: where a spread made of vegetable oil and skim milk solids, with an oil content of about 40 per cent has been introduced and is enjoying some success. 
I am aware of the increasing activity of Australians no doubt for genuine reasons, in sending quantities of sugar overseas, particularly to Britain, in the form of Christmas presents. This sugar apparently is going over in a variety of ways including in tins and in parcels and I understand in some cases it is being put in toys. I would point out that under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations it is quite illegal to send sugar out of Australia unless the appropriate permit has been given for such movement of sugar. I am quite certain that the honourable member does not expect me or the Department of Customs and Excise to ask the appropriate authority to be opening all sorts of Christmas presents. I think the amount of sugar being sent is relatively small because, after all, the freight costs on such presents if they are going air mail are quite significant. 
The domestic price of sugar in Australia is the lowest in the world for which I believe the sugar industry is entitled to a vote of thanks from everybody. At present it is about a quarter of the world price. Australian sugar is the cheapest sugar in the world when compared with prices in any country in the same economic classification as Australia. The problem is that we must watch this matter closely because there is growing illegal activity at some ports with respect to it being taken on as ship's stores. Ships entering ports, which would normally require a ton or so of sugar, apparently are doubling and trebling orders for the amount of sugar that they take out of Australia. This matter is being watched very carefully. There are rumours of smuggling occurring in some northern Australian ports. In fact, one vessel- a dumb barge- mysteriously disappeared from Darwin some time ago with a quantity of sugar on board. All I can say is that the position is being watched carefully. I would think that if sugar is going out of Australia in the form of Christmas presents, the quantity involved is relatively small. Anyway, it is nevertheless illegal. 
The Government has considered the amendment. The matter to which the amendment relates is dealt with in clause 16, which is self-explanatory as regards the definition of a dairy factory. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 14- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 15. 
1 ) The arrangements may provide for- 
the making of interest-free loans by the State or an authority of the State to the owners of dairy farms for the purpose of- 
meeting, in the case of a particular farm, the cost of the purchase and installation on the farm of a refrigerated vat for the storage of wholemilk intended for use as fluid milk for human consumption or in the manufacture of butter, cheese or other products; and * * * * 
The purpose of clause 15 is to assist dairy farmers to change over to refrigerated bulk milk by the provision of interest free loans for the purchase and installation of refrigerated vats, for any necessary modifications to the dairy or the power supply and for the construction of on-farm access roads. Really, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has confined his remarks in this case to 2 things, namely, the installation of larger vats on existing properties and the provision of interest free loans for a change-over to refrigerated bulk milk delivery to producers already on refrigerated supply so that they may upgrade their vats to the ASN46 standard. Under clause 12, if any of these farms which have existing vats are uneconomic in the accepted sense set out in the Bill and if they need to be upgraded to become economic they will be assisted in accordance with the measures provided in the Bill; that is, they will be assisted financially. 
In the broader sense, of course, there are compelling arguments such as labour, quality and hygiene for persuading the industry to change over completely to the refrigerated bulk milk supply. The purpose of the Bill is to provide a generous type of financial assistance to enable this to be achieved smoothly. It is desirable that refrigerated vats should be of the highest possible standard. In this respect each State lays down standards to be observed and, generally, has the ASN46 standard for new installations. If farms are economic, as distinct from the provisions under clause 12 of the Bill, it is questionable whether scarce resources should be made available to those properties to upgrade the vats, particularly in relation to the points made by the honourable member for Angas. 
First of all, there is no complete uniformity among the States about what standards should be applied and there is no complete uniformity within the industry as to standards. Not all States observe the ASN46 standards. In any case, not all dairying areas can install the ASN46 vats because, as the honourable member will know, these types of vats require the 3-phase electrification circuits. Some areas have only a single phase circuit. Therefore it is not possible to install these vats. The States recognise this problem and, while they insist on new installations meeting the required standards, they do not compel those with vats of the lower standard- which is the purpose of this amendment- to upgrade them. But I repeat that there is provision in clause 12 of the Bill for properties which are considered uneconomic within the definition laid down to secure finance. The Government does not accept that where farms are economic and where, under the conditions which I have mentioned here, there is no standardisation, it is necessary because of our scarce resources to apply the provisions to upgrading these vats. Therefore, the Government does not accept the amendment. 
As I said before, the Bill makes provision for a farm which has to change over completely to refrigerated bulk milk supply. The specific question asked by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  relates to clause 12. He asked whether, in fact, clause 12 means that the purchase of a vat would fall within the provisions of financial assistance if the farm were uneconomic. The answer I would give would be yes. Clause 12 provides for uneconomic dairy farmers to be provided with finance for the purchase of livestock and equipment and for the purpose of making their farms economically viable. Certainly I shall have to consult on the matter but there is no doubt in my mind that clause 12 is quite specific. If a farm is uneconomic and if, to make it economic, the farmer has to purchase an item of equipment which includes a vat, he would qualify for that financial assistance. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 16 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 16a 
The amendment to clause 15 (l)(b), which was debated previously, related to the appropriation. The amendment which has now been moved is the same. I neglected to say before that, because this is a money Bill, the Opposition is restricted in the type of amendment it can move because, after all, clause 22 makes the appropriation. Therefore the Opposition is restricted. This is a machinery amendment consequential on the other amendment that has been moved. The Government has not accepted the first amendment. Therefore, it follows that it would not accept the second amendment. Because this is a money Bill the Opposition has to frame its amendment in this way if it is to be effective. The Government did not accept the amendment to clause 15, and it follows that it would not accept the following amendment. 
The proposed amendment to clause 16 is basically that assistance to factories should be extended to provide for economic rationalisation. As was pointed out previously, the whole purpose of this Bill is to provide funds to the areas of greatest need. The purpose of the Bill is related directly to the farm itself. In the Bill assistance for factories is related to what is needed to make the assistance at the farm level work effectively. 
Once that is extended to take in all sorts of rationalisations which could occur as a result of change in machinery, automation, streamlining of buildings or whatever it might be it becomes distinct from what is essential to the consequence of what is happening on the farm. Although I accept the fact that the idea has merit, it is another matter whether there is a case for government assistance for this purpose. This is a far wider issue which is being injected into this Bill. 
In regard to whether a factory or industry needs financial assistance within the criteria argued by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  the Government has laid down a policy that this is a matter for the Industries Assistance Commission to determine. For the above reasons the Government rejects the amendment. As regards clause 16(2) I have already stated that because of the constitutional requirements this is a machinery amendment moved by the Opposition. It will not be accepted because clause 22 makes the appropriation. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill (No. 2), as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
As I understand the position, the wheat is purchased with the full authority of the Australian Wheat Board under terms and conditions that are agreed to by the Government and the Wheat Board. I will refer that part of the question seeking precise details to the Minister for Agriculture. 
-The sale of wheat in Australia comes within the provisions of the wheat stabilisation scheme which has been approved by  this  Parliament and which operates in conjunction with complementary legislation in the States. I would point out that the price of wheat on the domestic market in Australia is governed by a formula related to the movement in specific costs. I would also point out to the honourable member that the price of wheat in Australia both for human consumption and for stock feed is very much below the world price of wheat. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this short bill is to obtain Parliamentary approval for the agreement entered into by the Australian and State Governments on 2 December 1974 to extend the Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme to 31 December 1975. The scheme provides assistance, supplementary to the main Rural Reconstruction Scheme, to meet some of the special needs of the horticultural industry. Orchardists who are experiencing, or are threatened by financial difficulties may receive financial assistance for the removal of surplus fruit trees. A subsidiary benefit of the scheme to the industry is that the removal of surplus trees helps to bring the industry's productive capacity into closer alignment with the market for its products. 
The scheme offers 2 forms of assistance: clear fell, for the grower who is predominantly a horticulturist, who is in severe financial difficulties, and who wishes to remove all his fruit trees and leave the horticultural industry; and partial removal, for the grower whose property would become viable if some or all of the fruit trees were removed and the land put to an alternative use, but, who lacks the financial resources to withstand in the short term the effect of the removal of the trees. Assistance under the scheme is provided by way of a loan which is converted to a grant after 5 years conditional on the recipient not replanting specified fruit trees within that period. The scheme is restricted to fresh apple, fresh pear, canning peach, canning pear and canning apricot trees at present, although it is open to any State to seek approval for the extension of the scheme to other varieties of fruit. 
The Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme has played an important role in assisting growers in financial difficulties, especially in Tasmania. Over two-thirds of Tasmanian apple and pear growers have applied for assistance and approvals to date for removal of trees would account for more than 20 per cent of Tasmanian apple and pear production. The scheme has played a lesser role in other States because of the availability to growers of more remunerative market outlets and more profitable alternative enterprises. There are still many fresh apple growers in Tasmania who could be in need of assistance in the next 12 months. A substantial portion of the State's production is expected to be sold on markets which provide growers with very low returns. 
Production potential of canning pears still exceeds long term assessed market requirements, although an unusually low crop in the Goulburn Valley and low current world stocks of canned fruit in general, resulted in a satisfactory market situation for canning pears in the 1974 season. It was in this context that the Australian Government accepted the view expressed by the appropriate Ministers of the Australian and State governments when they reviewed the scheme in April 1974, that there was still a need for the kind of assistance provided by the scheme. 
Provision of additional funds is not required to enable the scheme to be extended. Of the original $4.6m allotted by the Australian Government, approximately $2m remains uncommitted. The amendment of the agreement also provides an opportunity to remove a restriction imposed on growers who applied for assistance before 1 July 1973 and who withdrew their applications after the first extension of the scheme was announced. Such growers will now be eligible to apply again under the scheme. 
When the scheme was introduced in July 1972 the intention was that it should operate for one year to June 1973. As the initial response to the scheme had been slow, an extension to 3 1 June 1974 was approved by the States Grants (Fuitgrowing Reconstruction) Act 1973. This further extension to 31 December 1975 will allow orchardists in necessitous circumstances to avail themselves of the benefits of the scheme pending the outcome of the current inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission. The LAC has been asked to include the question of assistance in the reconstruction of fruitgrowing industries in its inquiries on rural reconstruction, and to provide the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  with the report covering fruitgrowing by 31 October 1975. The provision of assistance beyond 31 December 1975 will be considered in the light of that report. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
The policy of the Government with respect to the method of appointment of members of the Australian Wool Corporation is well known. It has been stated time and again by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and by other honourable members. At present members of the Corporation representing the wool growers are appointed on the nomination of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. This requirement is being maintained but, with respect to this Bill, provision is being made for members to be selected by the Minister for Agriculture from a panel of names submitted by the Conference. The reason for the additional member with special qualifications is not one of politics. 
Although it may be construed from things I said in a debate in this chamber when the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  was under challenge that I was attempting to bring politics into the question of membership of the Corporation, let me state clearly that I want to see the wool industry promoted and made as economically viable as possible. The Government's intention, as expressed in this Bill, to have an additional member with special qualifications is in recognition of the very wide range of activities that will have to be covered by the Wool Corporation, particularly in trading. This measure will give the Wool Corporation a wide power in relation to trading that I believe will be for the benefit of the wool industry. 
The Bill strengthens the hand of the Wool Corporation with respect to supply management. It ensures the regulation of the flow of wool on to the market, keeping in mind the demand for wool and the various processes not only within Australia but also throughout the world, in relation to our competitors and also to importers. The trading powers of the Corporation are such that we want to have on the board men with experience in the various specialist activities and in all facets of the new powers of the Wool Corporation. The Government believes that the making available of wider experience and expertise on the board is a prudent action and is in the best interests of the wool growers. Time will tell whether this is so. 
I certainly do not agree that there is any motive behind the intentions of the Government to bring politics into this matter. The Government desires to appoint the best possible people. I cannot see why a panel of names should not be submitted. After all, the Australian Meat Board is selected in this way, from a panel of names to cover the various facets of expertise. A very high degree of expertise will be demanded because of the enlarged powers of the Wool Corporation. The Minister himself has a greater responsibility for oversight of the statutory body. He will need all the advice he can get from the expanded expertise on the Corporation itself. Surely all the skills and capabilities of wool growers are not so restricted that the AWIC would only want to put forward 4 names. 
-Previously the nominations came from the AWIC, but the Minister still made the final decision. This will still happen except that this will be an extension. My advice is that there will be one more member. 
-Perhaps it may help if I read out the advice I have been given. It states: 
The method of appointment of Corporation members: At present the members of the Corporation representing wool growers are appointed on the nomination of the AWIC. This requirement is being maintained but provision is being made for the members to be selected by the Minister for Agriculture from a panel of names submitted by the Conference. 
-Perhaps he could do that, but I would not think he would. What the honourable member is saying is that the AWIC will not nominate the most suitable people. The Bill also provides for the retirement, on a staggered basis, of grower members and members with special qualifications. We think this is a wise provision because it ensures continuity of experience on the board of the Corporation. For those reasons the Government does not agree with the Opposition's amendment. We believe that the appointment of one additional member with special qualifications will, in fact, strengthen the Corporation itself. 
Clause 8 obviously is simply a consequence of clause 5 which relates to the numbers on the Board of the Corporation. As the Government rejected the Opposition's amendment to clause 5 naturally it rejects also this amendment to clause 8. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
After section 20 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: "20a. (I) Before taking any action that could reasonably be expected to affect the conditions of employment, or the  demand for labour, in the wool industry, the Corporation shall consult with, and have regard to the views of, the appropriate trade union organizations. '(2) The Minister may give to the Corporation such directions in writing as he thinks necessary in connexion with the performance of the duty of the Corporation under subsection (1).' 
The Government does not support the amendment. Proposed section 20a( 1 ) reads: 
Before taking any action that could  resonably  be expected to affect the conditions of employment, or the demand for labor, in the wool industry, the Corporation shall consult with, and have regard to the views of, the appropriate trade union organisations. 
-The honourable member has had 4 goes on this matter already. I would think that the Opposition, instead of denigrating the trade union movement, would support such a constructive move. Apparently the Opposition does not want to consult with the trade unions. History has shown that it has consulted very little with the various administrative authorities of the wool organisations. It is well known to the Opposition that there are established forms of consultation that have been followed by the Australian Wool Corporation and by those bodies administering wool promotion and wool marketing for a long number of years. They have in fact consulted. They will still continue to consult with the  wool  buyers and wool brokers. This has been the established practice for a great number of years. What this Bill does now is simply ensure that when we are talking about conditions of employment and labour, we are also taking into consideration the views, of the trade union movement. So far as we are concerned, it is a constructive and sound move. As I have said, the established processes are already there. This is to safeguard the rights and obtain the best possible advice on employment with respect to the wool industry. Therefore, we reject the amendment. 
The Government does not accept the amendment. Proposed section 20a seeks to ensure that the Corporation consults with the appropriate trade union organisation and proposed section 20a (2) gives the Minister the power to give directions to the Corporation as regards consultation. What the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  said is not correct. Nowhere in this Bill is the Minister given the power in any circumstances to direct the Corporation to accept a particular view. The Bill simply gives the Minister a right to make provisions in relation to consultation which is set out in proposed section 20a ( 1 ). But it does not in any way give the Minister the power or the right to direct the Corporation to accept any one view. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Market Support Fund). 
The Government does not accept the amendment. The amendment would in fact substitute a trust account for the Market Support Fund. This would require separate identification of accounts. This amendment has been looked at very carefully by the Government but the opinion of the Government is that the requirement that the Market Support Fund be operated as a trust account would not achieve a greater measure of identification or accounting. In fact it probably would achieve a restriction of the best commercial use of the fund. 
-Because the trust account would be subject to direct ministerial delegated departmental control over its routine employment and necessary procedures would hamper it. The point is that the Bill requires separate identification of the Market Support Fund by the Australian Wool Corporation. It specifies the money which is to be paid into the Fund and the uses to which the money in the fund may be put. The accounting will be presented in the statutory report which the Corporation is required to make each year and which must be laid before each House of Parliament. 
The Corporation is required by the Wool Industry Act to report to the Minister for Agriculture on its operations during the year and to present the report together with the financial statement of the Auditor-General. It would seem that the amendment to substitute a trust account would not in fact increase the merit of the Bill but in fact would hamper or restrict the best commercial use of the Fund. As regards the point made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  regarding the disposal of Market Support Funds after profit and loss certified under the sub-section, I shall move an amendment immediately after this amendment of the Opposition is dealt with. But the industry itself, the Australian Wool Industry Conference, does not suggest that there should be a separate trust account, and neither does the Government. 
Amendment negatived. 
I move: 
Clause 10, page S, line 16, omit 'after consultation with', substitute 'with the approval in writing of. 
The interpretation of that amendment I think is quite clear. 
I am not quite clear what the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  means. 
-The amendment was circulated, I suppose, about half an hour ago. 
It was circulated in this House on my instructions more than half an hour ago. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 10, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
The Government does not accept the amendments. First of all, the Wool Industry Bill (No. 2) requires interest to be paid into the Wool Market Fund itself. I should like to refer to the point made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  regarding the brokers and the Prices Justification Tribunal. Not all brokers come within the ambit of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Australian Wool Corporation itself is authorised under existing legislation to participate in negotiations with respect to charges in the wool industry. Equally, it is authorised to be associated with the establishment of terms and conditions for the sale of wool. Legislation exists under which the Corporation can participate with respect to these matters. 
The honourable member for New England incorporated in Hansard a document of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Of course I willingly agreed that he should have leave to do that. In fact, I had intended to seek leave to have the document incorporated in Hansard myself. It does not make any difference who has it incorporated as long as the document is contained in the official record. Among other things, the statement says that the Australian Wool Industry Conference is appreciative of the early action taken by the Government to ensure continued confidence of growers and wool users in the Australian Wool Corporation market support operations by the provision to make available an additional $200m in loan funds to the Corporation. The conference therefore supported the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill (No. 2). The document also stated that the executive committee was pleased and encouraged in the knowledge that all political parties had indicated their support for the principles of strengthening the powers of the Australian Wool Corporation. The Australian Wool Industry Conference supported increased powers of supply management which the Bill conferred on the Australian Wool Corporation. That is what is stated in the document which has been incorporated in Hansard. Yet the Opposition says that the prime motive of the Government with respect to this Bill is political. 
The Australian Wool Industry Conference has given the lie to that. In actual fact, it supports the Government in what it has done tonight. 
Proposed new clause 10a and amendment negatived. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
The Minister for Agriculture refers the right honourable member to the answer by the Prime Minister to Question No. 4 1 which provides details of Councils upon which both Australian Government and State Ministers are represented. 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No. 67) 
I have been aware for some time of reports of possible shortages of nitrogenous fertilisers- not only urea, but also some of the ammonia sulphate compounds. I can assure the honourable member that I am taking a very close look at this matter. He well knows that in addition to Western Australia being a major user of nitrogenous fertilisers, the Queensland sugar industry is vitally concerned as are the horticultural areas. All I can say to him is that we are closely watching the output of the manufacturing plants throughout Australia and the availability of the relevant raw materials. 
I also take the opportunity to clarify an issue in relation to nitrogenous fertilisers. Last week there was tabled in this House a recommendation by the Industries Assistance Commission against providing a bounty to the manufacturers of nitrogenous fertiliser. Unfortunately, this was widely interpreted as being a recommendation against the subsidy payable on the sale of nitrogenous fertiliser which, of course, is designed to reduce the overall price of nitrogenous fertiliser in Australia. The bounty on the manufacture has not been in operation for a number of years. I think it was terminated whilst the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power in 1970. So it is not to be confused with the subsidy, which is still in operation. Unfortunately, this confusion in the interpretation has had the effect in some instances of increased buying of nitrogenous fertiliser. As to the principal purport of the question, the honourable member may rest assured that it is being looked at very closely. 
I move: 
That the amendments be disagreed to. 
The reason for the motion is that this Bill is designed as a complementary set of arrangements for the wool industry. By varying some aspects of this Bill other aspects are affected and weakened. The Government believes that the Bill should stand as printed. When this Bill was last being considered in this place certain amendments were moved by the Opposition. Some of them apparently have been agreed to in another place. The amendments that were moved here were fully debated and votes were taken. The Government has considered the amendments made in the other place and, for the reasons given, does not accept them. I repeat that the whole Bill is designed as a complementary set of arrangements for the industry and in the Government's opinion it would be weakened if any of these amendments were inserted in the original amending Bill. 
I shall comment briefly on what the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  said. As I said before, the Government believes that the powers of the Corporation would be weakened if the amendments were accepted. One of the most important aspects of this Bill is that it provides for wider trading powers. The powers provided for in this Bill include the power to manufacture and to process wool if necessary. In other words, there is no hampering of the Wool Corporation. It is all right for members of the Opposition to talk about private enterprise and to go through all the rigmarole and emotionalism connected with this, but the Government wants to give to the Australian Wool Corporation powers which will not hamper it in any way so that it is able to carry out its job in the best interests of the wool industry. It is clearly in the best interests of the wool industry and the growers to ensure that wool is disposed of and promoted to the best advantage. 
The Bill provides for one more person with special qualifications to be appointed to the Board. This is because wider expertise is demanded by the wider trading powers of the Corporation. As I pointed out when this Bill was last before us the provision to submit a panel of names to the Minister is the same as a provision in the legislation relating to the Australian Meat Board. The Australian Meat Board does not cavil at it; in fact, it is a democratic idea which is, I believe, welcomed by the Meat Board because it allows a larger number of people to have various types of expertise to be put forward and selected. The same thing happened here. The argument that the Minister would reject them and reject them again is so much nonsense and humbug. The Minister wants to obtain the best possible men for this position on the Corporation and that is what he is attempting to do. I repeat that the whole Bill is designed as a complementary package and that by taking out bits and pieces as the Senate has done simply weakens the whole Bill. The Government will have no part of it. 
Amendments disagreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Dr Patterson)  agreed to: 
That  Mr Daly, Mr Whan  and the mover be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendment of the Senate. 
-On behalf of the committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I bring up such reasons. (Thereupon the  Clerk  read the reasons as follows)- 
Because the Bill was a complementary set of arrangements for the industry. 
By varying some aspects others are affected and weakened. 
The Government believes that the Bill should stand as printed. 
Motion (by  Dr Patterson)  agreed to: 
That the committee 's reasons be adopted. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department has been informed that statistics of interstate milk movement are not maintained by the relevant authority in either State. I am sorry therefore that I cannot provide the information sought. 
Imports from New Zealand in each of the last five years have been as follows: 
Note: The Australian Statistician does not record curded milk imports separately from cheese imports. 
Imports of dairy products from all countries into New South Wales and Australia during the past five years have been as follows: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The most recent prices quoted for phosphate rock from Morocco range from US$70.88 to US$75.00 ($A54.02 to $A57. 16) per tonne f.o.b., depending upon the grade of rock. The price of phosphate from Morocco, the world's leading exporter, influences the price of Florida rock and phosphate sold on the world market from other sources. The prices of Nauru and Ocean Island rock vary directly in relation to the. Florida price which is quoted at US$47.50 ($A36.20) per tonne f.o.b. 
The f.o.b. prices for different grades of rock from Nauru and Ocean Island for use in Australia are negotiated by the British Phosphate Commissioners under fixed contracts and are treated as confidential by the parties involved. 
Christmas Island phosphate rock is not traded on the world market but rather mined by the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission for use in Australia and New Zealand. The current f.o.b. contract price for high grade Christmas Island phosphate, based on production costs, is $A7.00 per tonne. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister's attention was drawn to the article by  Mr E.  J. Donath in the 'Age ' of 1 8 November 1 974. 
Yes. 
In September 1974, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimated the gross value of the 1974-75 wheat crop at $851m compared with $357m for 1972-73. A revised estimate, which will take into account the possible effects of the September devaluation and revised estimates of production from this season's wheat crop will be published in midDecember 1974. These figures however, are not the same as gross income. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics does not publish figures of wheatgrowers' gross income in a particular year due to problems arising from the timing of pool payments and the income earned from other farm enterprises by a wheatgrower. 
Yes. 
In September 1974 the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimated the gross value of rural production of all crops in 1974-75, at $2,605m compared with 51,591m for 1972-73. A revised estimate which, amongst other things, will take account of the effects of the September devaluation and revisions to estimates of production from this season's harvests will be published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in mid -December 1974. 
Yes. 
In September 1974, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimated the gross value of potato production in 1974-75 at $109m compared with $49m in 1972-73. These estimates are for the gross value of production and do not incorporate changes in the prices or volume of inputs used by farmers in producing potatoes. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
On 5 July 1974, the Minister for Agriculture issued a press statement on the outcome of the McKinsey and Co. review together with a one-page summary of the report. The  Chairman  of the International Wool Secretariat,  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden, also issued a press statement concerning the review on 13 June 1974. 
The principal recommendations of the report were: 
A more structured approach to planning be adopted, with increased attention being given to global strategies. Administrative and staff structure changes in support of this approach were suggested. 
The role and composition of the IWS Board should be more directed to developing and reviewing overall strategy, leaving detailed aspects of operations to a Board Committee. 
The IWS Board, at a meeting in June 1974, decided to implement, with very few modifications, the principal recommendations concerning staff structure. The resultant organisational restructuring became effective on 1 August 1974. 
So far as the suggested changes to the IWS Board are concerned, the  Chairman  of the IWS advised me recently that the Board has accepted the recommendations in the report concerning its role and functions and has also moved to strengthen the role of the Board Committee. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (18) The Department of Northern Development does not administer any programs, of the kind referred to; there are no statutory authorities under my control as Minister for Northern Development. 
Department of Agriculture: Ministerial Press Releases  (Question No. 1640)  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) How are copies of Ministerial press releases circulated. 
To whom are they circulated. 
How many copies are circulated in total. 
What is the total annual cost, including salary and administration charges, in producing and distributing Ministerial press releases. 
How many public servants in the Department of Agriculture are involved with the distribution of press releases. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for Agriculture are distributed by hand to the press gallery from the Minister's press office, by distribution from the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit and by publication in the Australian Government Digest. 
There is a list of people who regularly receive copies of the Minister's press statements and this list is constantly changed. In addition, a number of copies of press statements are distributed in response to people calling in, or writing in, on a casual basis. Broadly, however, statements are issued to all Members and Senators, media organisations, Government departments, embassies, political party organisations, business organisations, libraries and individuals from whom requests are received. 
The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the particular subject matter of the statement, but in general statements are sent regularly to about 72S addresses including Members of Parliament and Government departments. 
Part of the cost of producing and distributing press releases for the Minister is included in costs relating to salaries and administration of the office of the Minister for Agriculture. Other costs are borne by the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit, which is part of the Department of the Media. The costs attributable to ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
None. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) An examination is being made of questions relating to insurance of crops and livestock against natural disasters. 
) An inter-departmental committee is expected to report on the matter to the Treasurer in the near future. 
and (4) Decisions on these matters will be made when the enquiry is finalised and the findings have been considered by the Government. 
I understand that an all-risk wheat insurance scheme has already been introduced in Western Australia on a limited basis by an insurance company. 
-As I understand the position the Minister for Agriculture and the Treasurer are considering additional proposals with respect to financial matters concerning the Australian cattle industry- beef cattle in particular. There is not only a question of finance involved, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party will know. Finance, of course, will allow cattlemen to carry on, particularly in those export areas in which cattle production is governed by the export market and is a monoculture. But I am also concerned about what will happen to the cattle because at present we have the greatest amount of cattle in our history available for turn-off in a fat and semi-fat condition, the stocking rates are at a maximum and the breeders are at a maximum. That has been due to an extraordinary run of good seasons. The big question, in addition to finance, is: What are we to do with the cattle? I treat that as a very serious matter. I think every member of this House would not tolerate a situation in which cattle were allowed to die on properties because they cannot be slaughtered or their meat cannot be sold or given away. As I see the situation, it is one of crisis in the cattle industry today. I can assure the Leader of the Country Party that the Government is doing everything possible to solve the situation. It may not be to his satisfaction. He has put forward proposals. I can assure him that I will pass on those proposals and make certain that they are examined in detail by the Government. 
-As the honourable member will know, world beef prices, in real terms, are at the lowest levels probably since the depression years. I am quite surprised to find that a country such as Italy is unable to finance imports of beef. The problem is to find countries which have the capacity to consume beef. As the honourable member probably knows, the Australian Meat Board has announced the sale of 40 000 tonnes of beef to Russia. I understand that there also has been a preliminary announcement that this figure may be increased by 20 000 tonnes. There is available in the world and in Australia at the present time plenty of meat suitable for canning. The problem is to find sufficient facilities to can beef. When one is able to can the beef one is then faced with the problem of what to do with it. This is tied in with the answer I gave the Leader of the Australian Country Party and boils down to 2 things: Finance for the cattle producer to enable him to carry on but, just as importantly, what is to happen to the cattle that are ready to be turned off. I am referring to cattle which have been able to stay on the property, eat grass and get fat, as one might say, because of good seasons. There is no guarantee that northern Australia will have good seasons this year. The rainfall this year already has been lower than average. If there is in these export areas a drought or even an extended dry season early, there will be one of the biggest smashes seen in the history of the Australian cattle industry. 
-A Darwin trust fund has been set up consisting of the Administrator of the Northern Territory,  His  Honour J. N. Nelson; Harold Brennan, the Mayor of Darwin; Paul Everingham, the  Deputy  Majority Leader in the Legislative Assembly;  Mr McDonell,  who is an executive member of that body;  Dr Stack,  representing the women of Darwin; Bishop O 'Loughlin of the Roman Catholic Church;  Mr Trower  of the Red Cross; Reverend Bence of the United Churches of Darwin;  Mr Robertson  of the welfare organisation;  Mr Alec  Fong Lim representing the business sector; and Bernard Valadian representing the Aboriginal community. This trust has been accepted in Darwin and throughout Australia as representing the people of Darwin. My role on the trust is one of co-ordination to ensure that the Federal agencies throughout Australia, such as the Department of Social Security and the Department of Labor and Immigration, are able to help the trust in the disbursement of funds. 
Up to this morning $1,779,000 had been received by the trust. Of that figure $1.3m had been paid by the Queensland Premier on behalf of the people of Queensland. On behalf of the people of Darwin I congratulate the people of Queensland for the contribution that they have made of $1.3m out of $1.779m. Other major donations have come from the lady mayor of Newcastle. That city has made a donation of $200,000. The Herald and Weekly Times of Melbourne has donated $225,000. The Wagga mayor appeal fund has donated $ 10,000. It is noticeable that although millions of dollars were supposed to have been collected in Sydney, Melbourne and other capital cities, no large sum of money has been received by the Darwin trust from places other than the ones I have named. 
-The honourable member will know full well the present position of people and organisations, including the Legislative Assembly, in Darwin. At the present time the Legislative Assembly building is basically in ruins. In view of the fact that so many Darwin people are transient or are out of Darwin at the moment, the whole terms of reference given to the parliamentary Committee with respect to executive power and other important matters dealing with constitutional reform may have to be looked at again. I have discussed this matter with  Dr Letts,  the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and with the permanent head of my Department. The decision I will take is that the Committee again have a quick look at the situation in Darwin. The only qualification that  Dr Letts  made was that the Committee should report quickly. The honourable member for the Northern Territory must agree that very serious structural differences have occurred as a result of the disaster in Darwin. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Honey Industry Act 1962-1973 I present the eleventh annual report of the Australian Honey 
Board for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Tobacco Industry Act 1955-65 I present the nineteenth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Fishing Industry Act 1956, I present the eighteenth annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30 June 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present the resolutions of the ninetieth meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Darwin Reconstruction Bill provides the basis for implementing the Government's plans for the reconstruction of Darwin following its devastation by cyclone Tracy on 25 December 1974, Christmas Day. I wish to take this early opportunity to present in some detail for the benefit of honourable members, a statement on the events and activities before and after cyclone Tracy. I present this information as a prelude to an explanation of the Bill to enable honourable members better to comprehend the magnitude of the disaster and the measures necessary both to restore Darwin and to provide for the future safety of the people and property of that city. This is not a speech one can enjoy making, depicting as it does the spectacle of awesome destruction. I can only hope,  Mr Speaker,  that honourable members will grasp this as a singular opportunity for a unified approach to the proper restoration of a vital and characteristic part of the Australian nation and indeed to Australia's way of life. The proposed Darwin Reconstruction Commission embodies the means of achieving the reconstruction of that stricken city. 
Honourable members may be unaware of the adequacy of warning and the emergency service plans to deal with a disaster of this magnitude. Whilst few could have foreseen the extent of damage and its consequences for people and property, nonetheless, the effectiveness of the organisation implemented on Christmas Day and the magnificence of the achievements since, should dispel any misgivings about these arrangements. We know that cyclone Tracy was adequately forecast and warnings were given sufficiently far ahead to enable persons to take cover. There is record of 15 warnings, of which the first was given at 4.15 p.m. on Monday, to Darwin people and to the surrounding areas- 36 hours before the cyclone struck. Thereafter successive warnings from radio and television advised of its approach. By noon on Christmas Eve a flash warning broadcast the prospect 'of very destructive winds' which were expected 'in Darwin tonight and tomorrow'. 
Though Tracy moved erratically from that first warning until the noon of Christmas Eve, it moved on its deadly path directly towards Darwin from that time on and it was clear that Darwin was threatened. The cyclone warnings and reports were broadcast continually from midday on Christmas Eve until Tracy hit; its course having been plotted by satellite and by radar. As we are all aware the devastation defied description. Electricity, water and sewerage services were eliminated, 95 per cent of houses were reduced to ruins, the hospital and Government and commercial buildings were severely damaged, and trees and shrubs were uprooted. Debris lay everywhere, roads were untrafficable and the port was severely effected. Ships were sunk. Few of the people or the facilities of Darwin escaped the ferocity ofthe cyclone. 
That the death toll was relatively small in proportion to the extent ofthe damage is difficult to believe. Indeed, some people have challenged the official figure of 49 killed and some persons still missing including 16 persons on small vessels sunk in the harbour. These challenges to the official figure are understandable in view of incredible damage, but rely on imagination and emotion, certainly not on fact. Church leaders in the Northern Territory, as recently as 2 February 1975, have issued a joint statement attesting the official record of deaths. News of the cyclone was speedily transmitted througout Australia and the world. Messages carrying news of the disaster were sent by various means including several ham wireless operators who established links with the south. I was notified of the Darwin tragedy early on Christmas morning. I took immediate action to fly from North Queensland to Darwin and on Christmas night, accompanied by Major-General Stretton, head of the Natural Disasters Organisation, and with a team of specialised medical people landed at the smashed Darwin Airport. I would like to pay tribute to the air crew of the Royal Australian Air Force Hercules which made the landing that night under most difficult conditions without the help of navigational aids at Darwin. 
A fellow called Shortie somehow got MajorGeneral Stretton and me to the Darwin Police Station, the headquarters of the emergency operation. By dawn next morning the crucial decision to evacuate the city had been made- a decision which I knew would have profound ramifications. Major-General Stretton put the proposition to me. I agreed and as the Minister for the Northern Territory I accepted full responsibility for that decision which was taken at a time of extreme emergency. The absence of sewerage, water and power, the lack of accommodation and the fact that health facilities were strained to the limit for a city of over 40 000, all leading to a very real threat of disease, clearly justified my decision to evacuate the city which was discussed with the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Leader ofthe Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  on Boxing Day. 
Sitting suspended  from  1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-The evacuation was accomplished so quickly and effectively, and with the utmost co-operation and humanity of people and organisations receiving the evacuees, that an historic airlift of the magnitude seldom seen in peacetime anywhere in the world was achieved with minimal discomfort. I know now of the many problems that the evacuation has caused. I know of personal bitterness and the personal crises which have occurred as a result of the decision to evacuate the city of Darwin- to separate wives from their husbands and children from their fathers. But in view of the stark evidence available, particularly the threat of contagious disease, I believe this action was completely justified. 
On Boxing Day morning I met with the Emergency Committee in Darwin and explained the role of Major-General Stretton and the Natural Disasters Organisation. The successful handling of the Darwin emergency over the ensuing few days was due to the unqualified backing which Major-General Stretton and the Natural 
Disasters Organisation received from the Northern Territory Emergency Services Organisation in Darwin and which included representatives of private and Government interests, the Northern Territory police, the Australian Defence Services and community organisations. Disaster planning for Darwin which had commenced in October 1974 and was approved in principle on 15 December 1974- only 10 days before the cyclone hit- provided the Northern Territory Emergency Services Organisation. The emergency services provided by this organisation were immediately effective following cyclone Tracy and indeed were put into effect on that Christmas Day-25 December 1974. The test of the suitability of the Organisation was its operation under fire. 
In Canberra the Natural Disasters Organisation, in the first instance, co-ordinated the requests for assistance and the movement of goods and personnel at the headquarters of the Natural Disasters Organisation in Northbourne House. The emergency operation established in Darwin was, in a sense, mirrored in Canberra and on 3 January 1975 the Canberra Disasters Organisation handed over co-ordination to the Canberra office of the Department of the Northern Territory. A handful of officers representing my Department and the Departments of Defence, Manufacturing Industry, and Housing and Construction ensured the continued coordination of transport of goods and personnel in the most effective and efficient way. Officers in Canberra worked around the clock and provided the vital lifeline which kept the emergency operations in Darwin supplied with the necessary equipment and supplies for survival of the city in those early days after the disaster. At all stages the emergency operation in Darwin involved representatives of the Legislative Assembly and the City Corporation. The Assembly has assisted in the maintenance of effective and necessary control in the area by passing appropriate legislation which had this Government's support. Its role in the immediate disaster period and the subsequent restoration must be recorded, achieving as it did the involvement of these bodies in bringing Darwin back to life. 
But primarily, let me pay tribute to the people of Darwin. The way in which they reacted in this crisis deserves the highest commendation. There was an unusual spirit prevailing amongst the citizens who went about performing the essential tasks of helping the injured, restoring services and establishing facilities for the homeless. People suffered the difficulties and indeed the indignities of those early days with understanding. Despite the emotional overtones of the evacuation, the community of Darwin went about its task with a sense of purpose which should serve as an example to the nation. 
I acknowledge also the work of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Industries, the employers' organisation and the Trades and Labour Council representing the trade union movement. Their co-ordinated effort was one deserving of the highest praise. 
I turn now,  Mr Speaker,  to some account of the restoration and problems associated with matters such as communications, accommodation, transport, health, Aboriginal welfare, port facilities, works and services, education, business, social welfare services and sports and entertainment. 
I understand that there is some there. Great support is being offered by southern sporting associations in the re-establishment of these sports and the provision of visiting teams. 
With regard to entertainment we have had visits from the Johnny 0 'Keefe Show, Rolf Harris, the Horrie Dargie Million Dollar Review and the Bert Newton Show. As you will be aware from the Press many groups of entertainers around Australia have visited Darwin or have indicated their willingness to do so. 
-The honourable member well knows that a large number of reasons are responsible for the deteriorating economic conditions in the cattle industry in Australia. It is a world-wide problem. As far as liquidity is concerned, the Government acted after a request from the Australian Cattlemen's Council to provide finance at commercial rates of interest. As a matter of fact this question will be discussed shortly as a matter of public importance. Apparently the honourable member is completely unaware of what the industry is asking the Government to do. It is not asking for further finance at present. In fact it is asking now for a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
-As usual, of course, the Opposition has launched into a tirade of abuse of the Australian Government for its alleged inaction and has attempted to blame the Australian Government for the whole financial crisis in the cattle industry. Everybody, except apparently the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  knows that the economic crisis in the cattle industry is a worldwide problem. It is not confined to Australia; it is world-wide. Apparently the honourable member's solution to it all is simply to provide more money, but he has not said for what. Is it for carry-on finance? Is it to increase production? Is it to pay off debts? 
-Is the honourable member for Riverina all right? I represent an electorate which possibly has more beef cattle in it than have the great majority of electorates represented by members of the Australian Country Party. 
-The honourable member for Hume would not know - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! If honourable gentlemen want the debate to continue I suggest that they remain silent. 
-The honourable member for Hume would not know how many cattle I have in my electorate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER;Order! I suggest to the Minister that he remain silent while I am speaking. 
-What about controlling honourable members opposite for a change,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? I listened in silence to their  Deputy  Leader. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER;Order! I was informing honourable members on my left that if they wanted this debate to continue they should remain silent. 
-Of course there is a crisis in the cattle industry. I live with it daily in my electorate in north Queensland and in relation to the Northern Territory. Apparently it is all right now to get up and say that the Government should provide more money, but when I was a member of the Opposition I moved many urgency motions and the parroted response of the government of the day always was: 'We will not bulldoze decisions through the Parliament. We will wait until the industry has consulted us. We will make decisions that are based upon what the industry wants'. 
It was the industry that asked for the $20m. It was the industry that asked for commercial rates of interest to be applied. 
It is quite obvious that the honourable member for Hume does not know the first thing about what the industry asked for. It asked for commercial rates of interest. The Government provided $20m at commercial rates of interest, with the promise to review the position in 3 months time if more money were needed. At present 448 specialist cattle producers throughout Australia have applied for loans. The number of applications received is 448. The sources of the applications are as follows: Direct from producers, 129; through the trading banks, 234; referred by pastoral houses, 63; and 22 others. A total of $2.384m has been made available already. Money is still available there. Money is still available at lower rates of interest under the reconstruction schemes in the States. 
I want to refer to an important letter to  Senator Wriedt  which has just been received from the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, which is the supreme ruling body in the beef cattle industry in Australia. It is in close touch with the Government. I will read some of the letter: 
As you are well aware, the beef cattle industry in Australia is currently facing an extremely critical period with the prospect of many producers being forced to leave the industry and recovery in price is still not in sight. In fact, at the 1975 Outlook Conference- It was referred to by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party- the Bureau of Agricultural Economics expressed the opinion that it was unlikely that prices would recover before the end of this year. 
The announcement of the Australian Government to make available $20m as loans to cattle produces was welcomed by this Council, but since that date, the plight of many cattle producers has worsened. 
It is the opinion of this Council - 
This letter is dated 6 February, last week- that additional assistance is required for the beef cattle industry. The question is, what type of assistance should be considered and in what form should it be given? This Council feels that a prima facie case now exists for the Australian Department of Agriculture to recommend that the question of future aid to the beef industry should be urgently and immediately examined by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
-The right honourable gentleman can ridicule the cattle industry if he wishes, but I am quoting from a letter written by the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, and signed by the executive secretary, to  Senator Wriedt.  The right honourable gentleman can ridicule the Council and the cattle industry if he wishes, but I do not ridicule the cattle industry. The letter continues: 
In offering the initial $20m loan to cattle producers, the Australian Government has recognised the need and justification of assistance. In the joint statement issued by the Treasurer and yourself - 
This is a letter to  Senator Wriedt-  it was stated that the Government would review the needs of the industry in three months time. 
The letter from the Australian National Cattlemen's Council continues: 
As an organisation, representing a large number of cattle producers in all States, we are constantly receiving suggestions and proposals that are all intended to assist the industry in various forms. Many of these proposals are obviously not feasible, but others do require specific and critical analysis. It is for this reason that the Australian National Cattlemen's Council is requesting that you seek a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission so that these proposals can be examined in a formal and rational manner and so that specific recommendations can be made to the Government on further assistance. 
I am not necessarily agreeing that we do not need more potent action. I am inclined to agree that we do need it because I represent an area where a crisis is occurring. The crisis will occur in the next 2 months when the cattle turn-off commences. I am quoting what the industry says because honourable members opposite used to say to me when I was in Opposition: 'We will wait and see what the industry wants and we will act. ' The letter continues: 
The Bill that established the IAC has provision for industries that are facing hardship to seek a reference through their appropriate Department, which in the case of the cattle industry is the Australian Department of Agriculture. 
Then the National Council suggests that consideration should be given to some particular plans. The letter continues: 
By seeking an immediate reference ... for short term assistance, the proposals currently being canvassed can be examined. The issues that required appraisal include: 
Beef stabilisation schemes incorporating a guaranteed minimum price to the producer. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the beef stabilisation schemes are being examined all round Australia. There are meetings of branches of the Australian cattle industry all round Australia. In the Northern Territory plans are being formulated by the Government to provide, I hope, a stabilisation scheme for the start of the killing season in the Northern Territory. The second proposal put forward by the Council relates to price stabilisation based on a home consumption price and a separate export price. There is a scheme such as this in the sugar industry, there is a stable domestic price and a fluctuating export price. But we are waiting for the cattle industry to put up the proposals. What does it want? The letter continues: 
An acceleration in the national program for the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis. 
This is being done. The Council also put forward a compensation plan to destroy surplus cattle on properties, particularly in the event of drought. I can assure honourable members that I do not like this proposal because I do not believe that a government or a parliament should be a party to having to destroy cattle or livestock. The situation is quite different from wheat or wool which can be stored. They are not a perishable product, and of course they are not animal. The next point that the Council makes is: 
Canning of large quantities of beef, some for food aid but the balance to be stockpiled for sale in 2 to 3 years time. 
The Council says that a heifer subsidy scheme should be looked at to encourage producers to retain breeding cattle. I read only yesterday that a proposal had been put forward by some cattle interests to reduce the number of breeding cattle in Australia by about one million. One thing that the cattle industry must do is to be unanimous. It must stick together on some of the proposals it is putting forward and it must analyse them. 
The National Cattlemen's Council speaks about looking at subsidising export sales or shipping freights, making financial grants to the States so that they can in turn assist producers who are facing difficulties in paying shire rates. The Council is looking at the making of financial grants to the States to enable rail freight subsidies to be applied, and an extension of the $20m loan at present being administered by the Commonwealth Development Bank. This matter is being looked at by the Government. There is still plenty of money left in that fund. As I said before, the States have control of the State reconstruction funds, and the beef cattle industry is fully entitled to apply to the States for reconstruction help if it is needed. The Executive Secretary of the Council,  Mr Cameron,  finished by saying: 
As the problems facing the cattle industry are immediate, the reference sought is for an inquiry into the most suitable form of assistance that can be granted in the short term, or until the IAC has had an opportunity to examine the more general issues, as it is currently doing. 
The Australian National Cattlemen's Council would appreciate your support in seeking a referral to the IAC and maintains that a prima facie case does exist for such a reference. 
That letter containing the deliberations of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council was received by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  last week. I understand that a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council will be held this week. What does the industry want? The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party certainly raised many issues which would help the industry. There is no question about that. He referred to the reimposition of the petrol subsidy and a better system of equalisation. Policies to help the industry are being formulated by this Government on such issues. The $20m loan represents long-term finance. As I said before, money is available from the Commonwealth Development Bank. The price stabilisation scheme is being looked at but so far no proposal has been received from the Australian cattle industry, except in the Northern Territory, for a stabilisation scheme, whether it be an income stabilisation scheme or a price stabilisation scheme. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party criticised the Government for doing nothing in relation to marketing. The Government has been active throughout the markets of the world. It has backed the Australian Meat Board's missions overseas. It has given instructions to its trade commissioners and diplomatic personnel in all countries overseas to do everything possible to find markets for our beef. It has sent delegations to the European Economic Community, to Japan and to the Middle East. On his recent trip overseas the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did everything possible in the EEC countries and in Russia to promote the sale of Australian beef. The sale of 40 000 tons of beef to Russia has been announced in the last few days and we hope that an extra 20 000 tons will be sold. The Government has taken action under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade with respect to Japan and the EEC in an endeavour to get those countries to remove the barriers they have placed against Austraiian beef. The Government has undertaken surveys in underdeveloped countries to ascertain their capacity, if any, for buying Australian beef. We must remember that refrigeration is one of the great problems in selling beef overseas. Certainly there is scope in a limited way for gifts of canned beef to some countries. 
The Government is working on proposals to provide finance to export meatworks, particularly in the north, which may not be able to open because of liquidity problems. The Katherine meatworks in the Northern Territory is such an example. In regard to the stabilisation schemes, as I said before, the Government is waiting for the Austraiian cattle industry to put forward proposals. Perhaps it will do so to the Agricultural Council. In the Northern Territory one has been put forward and it is my hope that a floor price scheme will be in operation before the killing season commences. 
The basic problem that worries me greatly- I do not beat around the bush- is what will happen to the cattle throughout Australia starting from the next two or three months, because there are all the earmarks that we will get dry conditions not only in southern Australia but in northern Australia. We have had good conditions in the past 1 8 months or 2 years and cattle have been able to hold on, but practically every cattle property in Australia today is overstockedthey are overstocked with breeding cattle, their carrying capacity has been stretched, calf survival rates have been high and they have too many fat cattle. There is a limit to how long people can hang on to fat cattle. When they have to sell, or when there are dry conditions or a drought, they will be facing a serious problem. I have heard nothing from the Opposition about any proposal about this problem. 
in reply- Firstly, I thank all honourable members on both sides of the House who have participated in this debate and expressed various sentiments- sentiments of compassion and of understanding, all aimed, I believe, at achieving the best possible result for the people of Darwin and the best possible reconstruction plan for Darwin itself. Natural disasters, as has been pointed out, are things which apparently this country will experience in the future just as much as it has in the past. In the last 6 years I personally have been associated with 4 natural disasters- 3 cyclones and one disastrous flood. There was the Proserpine and Whitsunday Islands cyclone which destroyed islands, settlements and beaches and killed people. There was the Townsville cyclone, the floods of last year and now cyclone Tracy in Darwin. Cyclone Tracy is the worst disaster I have ever seen. I hope I never see anything like it again. It has had a profound effect on me, as I am sure it has had on all the people who were in the cyclone on that fateful day or who, immediately after or since, saw the ruins of Darwin and the incredible suffering which many people must have gone through, including those whose relatives were killed. 
What cyclone Tracy has revealed is that Australia must always be prepared for natural disasters. As I said in my second reading speech, the way in which the various committees and the Natural Disasters Organisation were able to function in Darwin as soon as was humanly possible must in itself have saved many lives. It would have saved people who may have been killed, who may have been affected by disease. We do not know. Thankfully the known death toll of only 49 is remarkably small. When one sees the ruins of the northern suburbs it is just incredible and incomprehensible that only that relatively small number of people in fact perished. We can be extremely thankful of course that when the cyclone struck it was not at a time of high tide. Considerable areas of Darwin are susceptible to tidal or storm surge. The experts have told me that if the cyclone had struck at high tide the death toll would have been very much higher. 
One of the reasons for the relatively small death toll, certainly based on what I saw in the Whitsunday Islands and in Townsville, was the fact that the great majority of people were indoors. God only knows what would have happened if the cyclone had struck in the middle of the day with people walking around and children at school, even though there was ample warning. Those people who care about what happened in Darwin know that the relatively small death toll is one of the remarkable things about the holocaust. Lessons have been learned of which the Government is very conscious. I am sure those people affected in Darwin are also conscious of them. Ever since Christmas Day I have been making arrangements for experts from Queensland to go to Darwin to examine the planning and the construction of buildings and houses in an endeavour to learn from the Darwin experience. As everybody knows, the eastern coast of Queensland has suffered many times from cyclones and will suffer again. So we must learn, plan and be prepared. 
The central theme of the speeches of the Opposition speakers, as I see it, is to ensure that the people of" Darwin are represented in actions taken during the next 5 years, during the planned operation period of the Commission. The Government believes that the people of Darwin are adequately represented on the Commission through the Legisaltive Assembly and through the Corporation of the City of Darwin. These 2 bodies, the Assembly and the Corporation, do in fact represent the people of Darwin on the Interim Commission. In the Interim Commission the 3 government members are permanent heads of the 3 departments vitally concerned in the reconstruction of Darwin- the Department of the Northern Territory, the Department of Urban and Regional Development and of course the Department of Housing and Construction. The  Chairman, Sir Leslie  Thiess, is a man with tremendous experience in construction and a man, I believe, who wants to get things done. 
The Bill provides also for the establishment of the Darwin Citizens Council. As I said in my second reading speech, the Bill provides for the appointment of other committees by the Commission, through the Minister, to advise the Commission on all types of matters which the Commission believes, or the people of Darwin believe the Commission should be told of. Let us have a look at some of the specific points of the Bill. There will be no debate at the Committee stage and I understand that no amendments will be moved here; they will be moved at a later time in another place. I shall deal with some of the points that were raised, firstly the definition of the area which will fall within the scope of the Commission's activities; that is, a radius of 60  kilometres.  People have questioned this area but there is a reason for it. Put briefly, the radial area is based on the need expressed by the planners, the experts, to cover all land which might prove necessary for the Reconstruction Commission to operate. Those currently involved in planning for Darwin see the need for the Reconstruction Commission to have control over land uses in the area covering Cox Peninsula, Darwin River Dam and out to Adelaide River to give it as much flexibility as possible in determining public utility areas such as for the airport, buffer zones, water conservation areas, a need for which may arise during the program of reconstruction, and to allow for expansion. 
Of course there are other reasons. The Commission may not want to see buildings or construction taking place on areas continguous to a smaller area. It may not be in the best interests of planning. Consequently, it is essential that the Commission has that area of land, certainly when one takes into account buffer zones and the supply of water. The relevant clause with relation to appeals is clause 61 ( 1) (e). The GovernorGeneral may make regulations pertaining to the Commission. Clause 61 (1) (e) provides for appeals including appeals to the courts of the Territory in respect of matters arising under the regulations. I would expect the Commission to act accordingly. Of course the Governor-General has the final decision through the Parliament and the Minister, but the Commission will make the recommendations in respect to certain actions. 
As regards public and private investment, which was raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory, I point out that this is a programming provision and it only indicates without determining in the sense that it makes the final decision. I can assure the honourable member that this will be fully taken into account. 
Clause 11 deals with the powers of the Commission. The honourable member for the Northern Territory believes that they are too wide, but these powers are considered necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions properly in the light of experience elsewhere in Australia, and because of the emergency of this situation to get this job done within 5 years. It may take longer. Of course provision will be made to extend the legislation, but we are planning on the basis of a 5-year period. As regards land in the Northern Territory, the honourable member for the Northern Territory argues that clause 13 is too wide and should be restricted to the Darwin area. It is fairly clear that the Commission may want access to land outside Darwin, to hold land in reserve for construction purposes, or for stores or whatever it might be. That is the purpose of that clause. 
Clause 16.(1) deals with oral directions. I should like the honourable member for the Northern Territory to listen to this because he raised the point that somebody might give an oral direction for people to be removed from a dangerous place. I think he took objection to the inclusion of the word 'oral'. I personally have no objection to what he said. If it is to become a major issue I certainly shall not argue about it. But I point out to the honourable member that it may be that in cases of extreme emergency only oral direction will be available. Let us take for example the present situation. There could be a blow tomorrow or a blow next week. We may not have time to go running around getting all types of orders and determinations. It may be that the police want to remove somebody out of a house in bad condition. I can assure the honourable member that plenty of people already are living in shattered houses. One has only to go at night to the northern suburbs and see the number of lights to appreciate this fact. In the case of extreme emergency, such as another blow with debris everywhere, it may be that there is only time for oral directions to get action, especially if someone refuses to vacate a house that obviously will be blown over. That is a reason for the inclusion of the word 'oral'. However, if the honourable member for the Northern Territory has strong objections to its use, I will not argue but I think when he examines the situation he will see the reason for it. 
The honourable member referred to clause 1 8 which relates to membership of the Commission and specifically mentioned the general manager. The Government believes that the general manager must be a full time executive, must be part of the Commission and vote on the Commission. 
This is accepted practice with other commissions and I can assure the honourable member that this provision was well thought out and was discussed widely. The honourable member suggested that there should be greater local representation on the Commission. As I pointed out earlier, one member of the Commission will be nominated by the Legislative Assembly and another by the Corporation of the City of Darwinboth elected bodies. The Mayor of Darwin is a member of the interim commission and the Majority Leader of the Legislative Assembly,  Mr Letts,  is also a member, so both these bodies are represented on the Commission. The honourable member expressed the view that a representative of the Northern Territory Public Service, as distinct from the Australian Government Public Service, should participate in the Commission. I have no objection to that proposal and if the Opposition moves that as an amendment I do not believe there will be any opposition from the Government. 
The honourable member referred also to clause 45 which appears in those provisions relating to the Darwin Citizens' Council and advisory committees. He questioned the proposal relating to nominations for membership of the Council by, in addition to organisations listed, not less than 2 electors for the Legislative Assembly. There would certainly seem to be merit in what he said. Perhaps this provision could be altered to relate to residents of Darwin because, as he pointed out, there are people in Darwin who are not electors but who might seek to have representation on that council. It may be that some person aged under 18 years might seek to represent the youth of Darwin. I can see merit in the suggestion and if the wording were altered to relate to 'residents of Darwin' instead of 'persons entitled to vote at elections for the Legislative Assembly for the Territory' that possibly would fill the bill. 
Clause 53 concerns compensation in respect of acquisition of land in the Darwin area. The Opposition seems concerned about the formula for determining the compensation to be paid. This is an important issue for the people of the Northern Territory, particularly those who have lost almost everything. It may be that the Commission will have to acquire some houses and some land but the Opposition should not be frightened that the Government is seeking to acquire all the land, because it is not. In certain areas of Darwin no reconstruction will take place. Some areas are subject to tidal wave and storm surge and it would be crazy for anyone to consider rebuilding in such areas. The Government has no wish to take advantage of any fall in land values which may be attributable to the cyclone and it has sought advice on the most equitable means of providing compensation for land acquisition. The value of the land is not to be less than its value immediately prior to the cyclone if the improvements on it had been the same as the improvements at the date of acquisition. In other words the Government is applying a fair valuation criterion. 
I am not surprised that the Opposition has objected to clause 55 which provides that the powers and functions of the Commission are not to be affected by the Northern Territory Town Planning Ordinance. This provision is necessary because this is emergency legislation. It is essential to get houses built in order to get the people of Darwin who are scattered around Australia back to Darwin and to house them as quickly as possible and to get Darwin operating most effectively. This clause is necessary to ensure the overall orderly planning and development of the future Darwin area. It is essential that the Commission, in exercising its powers and carrying out its functions, should not be impeded by local legislation relating to a Darwin town plan devised in 1966 and subsequently amended. The Town Planning Ordinance will, of course, continue to operate outside Darwin but the Commission, in carrying out its functions of planning and reconstruction, must have the power to act quickly and to recommend to the Minister and the Government a plan of action. If the Commission is impeded by continuous argument about town planning, such as we have experienced in the past in Darwin and elsewhere, I am afraid there will be nothing but frustration in many areas. I am not suggesting that the people of Darwin would not be consulted. I have given my word that they will be consulted as much as possible about every plan and move the Commission proposes. That, of course, will involve the displaying of maps and plans and the explanation of policy to consultative groups and committees so that the people of Darwin can be fully involved in the planning. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply- I do not know whether  Mr Letts  sent me the telegram. I do not know to whom that telegram was addressed. 
-Yes, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony). 
-No, I am replying to what the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said. I should have thought that the Northern Territory Majority Leader would have sent a telegram to me as Minister in charge of this Bill. If his action is not playing politics, what is? The second point I make in this respect is that this motion was moved by an independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Which independent member was it? There are only 2 independent members in that Assembly. It must be  Mr Withnall  who is the same person who provided the honourable member for Kennedy with a long screed of advice on this Bill. That independent member did not give that same advice to -me. I take a very dim view of this. If the majority leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was fair and independent, he would have sent me a copy of that telegram also.; Similarly, the independent member with legal experiencethere are only 2 independent members in the Assembly and only one of them has legal experience - 
I have not received it yet. If I have received it, I will make no bones about saying so in the House. All I suggest is that if this is the same person he could have at least given me that telegram and that advice too. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer by the Special Minister of State to Question No. 1 862. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
On the basis of prices charged by the Cold Storage Association, the cost to hold meat in cold storage over one year period would be of the order of 10 cents/lb. 
The current unused cold storage capacity in Australia is relatively small in relation to production of beef. In view of this, it is considered that producer prices for cattle could not be significantly influenced by the utilisation of existing unused storage capacity. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The national parks, reserves and wildlife sanctuaries in the Northern Territory which would be under the administrative responsibility of the proposed Australian National Park and Wildlife Service are those areas which the GovernorGeneral sees fit to declare and for which a plan of management tabled in both Houses of Parliament, has not been disallowed. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
456 000 gallons of apple juice concentrate and 204 000 gallons of pear juice concentrate. 
$348,452 on 348 986 gallons of apple juice concentrate. 
The remainder of the assistance for apple juice concentrate will be provided as soon as the processors notify the Department of Manufacturing Industry that the juice concentrate has been sold. In the event that the concentrate is not sold, the situation would have to be reviewed. 
The question of assistance for pear juice concentrate is under consideration. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Minister for the Media to Question No. 1 5 8 1 m the House of Representatives on 4 December 1 974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
Department of the Northern Territory: Publications  (Question No. 1585) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (Hansard, 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of my press releases are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery from my office and by publication in the Australian Government Digest. Copies are reproduced by the Department of Northern Development for internal distribution and for wider circulation by mail to meet verbal and written requests received from outside the Department. 
The Departmental mailing list for Ministerial press statements is constantly changing. Broadly, statements are issued to the media, Government Departments, embassies, political party organisations, business and other organisations and individuals. 
The number of copies distributed depends to some extent on the subject matter of the particular statement. Normally, some 184 copies are distributed. 
The costs of producing and distributing press releases are not separately identified but are included in costs relating to salaries and administration of my office and the Department. 
5 ) Two, on a part time basis only. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for the Northern Territory are distributed by hand through the Information and Public Relations Branch Office in Darwin to the Legislative Assembly, the ABC (Darwin), the Northern Territory News, and Northnews. In addition, a copy is telexed to the Katherine Informer, the Pekoclarion (Tennant 
Creek), the Centralian Advocate (Alice Springs), Radio Station 8HA (Alice Springs) and the ABC (Alice Springs) and as appropriate, through the Press Gallery. 
There is a list of 28 people who regularly receive copies of the Minister's press statements. These include media organisations in the Northern Territory, Government Departments, political party organisations, business organisations and libraries. A copy is also sent to the Australian Government Digest. 
The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the subject matter of the statement, but in general, statements are regularly sent to about 28 addresses. 
Pan of the cost of producing and distributing press releases for the Minister is included in costs relating to salaries and administration of the Information and Public Relations Branch of the Depanment of the Northern Territory. The costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this pan of the right honourable member's question. 
Two- part-time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
None 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
The Depanment has available an Emergency Services Organisation which can assist both the Government and the private sector in emergency service preparedness. The N.T. Fire Brigade is also available for the purpose. Pan (3) of the prime Minister's answer to question No. 548 is also relevant. 
ACT.: Lessees of Rural Land  (Question No. 1529) 
I am aware of the statements made by the Queensland Premier threatening Japan. They are irresponsible and they can do Australia a tremendous amount of damage in international trade. Any nation that attempts commodity blackmail by standing over countries to try to sell its commodities will never achieve that aim. The regrettable thing is that Australia as a nation will not be trusted by other countries because of the intolerable actions of the Queensland Premier in this matter. 
In reply to the question, there has been no move by the Queensland Premier to the Australian Government for a price stabilisation scheme, an income stabilisation scheme, freight concessions for the cattle industry or specialised financial assistance for meatworks. In fact, there has been no approach whatsoever. All that the Country Party dominating Queensland, assisted by the Country Party on the other side of this House, seems to be concerned about is stirring up trouble in Queensland within the cattle industry to the degree that the industry is torn apart. Last night we heard the secretary of the United Graziers Association, the major ruling cattle authority in Queensland, condemning the actions of the Queensland Premier over confrontation with Japan and then we heard the secretary of the graziers association in northern Queensland condemning the UGA. All honourable members in this House saw what happened to the wool industry years ago. The industry was torn apart by dissension. It is quite clear that the cattle industry must sit down and put up constructive proposals as to what it wants. 
-The Leader of the Australian Country Party knows, and ought to know, that the prices received under commercial contracts are confidential to the parties negotiating those contracts-in this case, from the point of view of Australia and from the point of view of 
Russia. Naturally the cost would include freight; that is, it would cover the price of meat in Australia plus freight. As regards the question of whether the contract will mean a loss, my understanding of the situation is that the cost, taking into account freight, has not yet been finalised by the Australian Meat Board. When it is finalised those matters to which the right honourable member referred will be given every consideration by the Government. 
There is a very great difference between the action taken by the waterside workers and that taken by the Premier of a State- the Premier of Queensland in this instance- in threatening a foreign government. That is what the Premier of Queensland has done. It is an arrogant attitude which has never been tolerated in international trade and it can only bring discredit to Australia. While I am on my feet,  Mr Speaker,  might I say that what the Queensland Government has done has apparently got the full support of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party in this House. To his credit- 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
I was misrepresented by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party in the remarks he just made. At question time I simply stated, as has been recorded in today's 'Canberra Times', that 'the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  supported the attitude taken by the Queensland Premier'. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The following programs of assistance to industry or individuals are administered by the Department of Agriculture: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Special Minister of State to Question No. 1 862 in Hansard of 5 December 1 974. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In the course of my address to the Plenary session of the World Food Conference I announced that Australia would match proportionately the contribution pledged by Canada of $CAN50m to assist in the present critical situation. On this basis the Australian contribution will be $A 1 8.75m. This is additional to the provision for external aid detailed in 1974-75 Budget Paper No. 9 totalling $A341m. The food aid component of the total aid program is likely to be in excess of $60m this financial year. 
The additional aid is to assist developing countries in overcoming their food problems; it will not necessarily be in the form of food aid, or wholly so. In accordance with wellestablished practice, the form and destinations of the aid will take account of the needs and wishes of potential recipient countries. Grain, in particular wheat, is the most acceptable form of food aid and it is expected that most of Australia's aid will be in this form. There has been little call internationally for meat as food aid. 
No specific time has been set down. The extent to which the additional funds will be expended in the current financial year will depend among other things on the timing and nature of requests from developing countries and international agencies. 
Canada and Australia made promises of additional aid in specific terms for humanitarian reasons and as a means of generating action in a positive and constructive way towards the solution of the present world food problems. However, the form of the Conference did not require countries to enter into specific commitments at the Conference. Rather, arising from the resolutions that were adopted, there is a general commitment to increase the volume of aid aimed at increasing food production in deficit developing countries, improving nutrition and providing a greater measure of world food security. 
It is a fact that in the last 12 months a decline has occurred in exports of beef to the United States of America. In 1 973 the total amount of beef exported to the United States was approximately 340 000 tonnes. In 1974 the figure was about 240 000 tonnes. This represented a decline of 100 000 tonnes. But since October last year there has been a very sharp increase in the amount of beef exported to the United States. In the last 4 months it has averaged about 30 000 tonnes per month, which is relatively high. The decline is understandable because the c.i.f. prices in 1973 reached a peak of well over 200c per kilogram as compared with about 100c per kilogram now for boneless cow beef. 
I cannot answer the other part of the question as to whether it is possible for importers to be reexporting beef in processed form to Japan. But I will say this: I also have heard these allegations. They may be only rumours. On the best information I can get, this is not happening. Japan itself has an embargo on the import of beef from Australia and the United States in this form. 
-Both. On the other hand I will make inquiries about the matter because, from my experience over the years, the ramifications of exporters engaged in the international meat trade are so extraordinary that there may be ways in which it is possible to beat a general policy. One thing that disturbs me is that when one looks at the cattle prices now in New South Wales and Queensland and the way they have dropped to bedrock levels and compares those levels with the price that the housewife still has to pay, it is clear that there are still some unknown quantities in this area. It is pretty obvious to me that the producer is not getting a fair price in relation to what the consumer is paying. 
-When we tried to do something about it 2 years ago, it was the Leader of the Country Party - 
Pursuant to clause 8 of the Sugar Agreement 1969, 1 present the report on the operation of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with the Committee's financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
Rarely have I heard such sanctimonious nonsense as has been talked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  What the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party attempted to say when talking about unemployment in rural areas was that that unemployment is due directly to the economic condition of rural industries. Everybody knows that the major proportion of unemployment in rural areas is directly concerned and correlated with the manufacturing and processing industries. 
I listened in silence. I would expect that the honourable member would do so too; otherwise, he should sit back on the front of the Opposition bench where he belongs. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party commenced his speech by referring to the deteriorating economic climate throughout the rural industries. He mentioned the beef industry. What other industries did he mention? He did not mention one other industry in the whole of his speech. 
-What other rural industries did he mention? 
-The wheat industry is experiencing one of the greatest eras of prosperity in its history. He mentioned unemployment in the wheat industry! He mentioned superphosphate and the unemployment that he alleged existed among the pilots who spread superphosphate. But he did not tell us of the amount of superphosphate that was sold in the last 6 months of last year. He did not tell us that every farmer's shed throughout the country is stocked with superphosphate. He did not tell us about the number of hours flown in the 3 months before Christmas by pilots of aircraft that spread superphosphate. They are maintaining their aircraft now. Why tell us half-truths about these figures? Everybody knows that statistics can lie. The honourable member should get the true figures. 
-This Government has done more for the wool industry in 2 years than the Liberal-Country Party Government did in 23 years - 
-The figure as of yesterday of the amount of money received by the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund was $3,246,513. The break-up of that amount is as follows: Victoria $242,000, of which $225,000 came from the 'Herald and Weekly Times' appeal; Queensland, $1,468,000 and practically the whole of that came from the one fund- the Premier's Fund. 
There is only one Premiers' fund in Queensland. From New South Wales there was a total of $416,000 of which $87,000 came from the Opera House appeal. $l.lm came from the Channel 9-News Limited appeal and apparently that money was collected not only from New South Wales but also from other States. The only large sum received from South Australia was $1,200. The only large sum received from the Australian Capital Territory was $3,400 from the Cinema Centre, Canberra. It is quite obvious that very large sums of money which have been collected throughout Australia by various organisations for the people of Darwin have not gone to Darwin. The money certainly has not been received by the Darwin Trust Fund. It is possible that some of this money is being used by other organisations to help evacuees in parts of Australia other than Darwin. I think the situation is most unsatisfactory because we seem to be having almost each year natural disasters with hundreds of appeals taking place all over Australia on behalf of the unfortunate victims and it is extremely difficult to find out what happens to the money that is collected. I am not suggesting for one minute that there is anything wrong with what is being done but in terms of the Darwin cyclone Tracy disaster there was so much money collected- estimates have put the figure at around $ 10m- but only $3m has been received by the Darwin Trust Fund. I did not give the figures for Western Australia. The only sum received so far by the Fund was $2,000 and that came from the Kununurra Progress Association on the Ord River. 
If the honourable member had listened carefully he would have heard me say that it is possible that this is happening. I am giving the official figures of money received by the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund. I was in contact with a Cabinet Minister in Western Australia some weeks ago and he did explain to me that a lot of the money collected was being used to benefit evacuees in Western Australia. There is nothing wrong with that. I am giving the official figure of amounts received by the Darwin Trust Fund. What I am suggesting is that State 
Governments and even this Government from an Australian Government point of view may have to consider introducing legislation in respect of the collection of money following natural disasters. My office is flooded with inquiries from people about what happened to the money that they and organisations gave. In Queensland we learnt from the experience following the floods that the best way was to have one fund and only one fund. That is to say, all of the money collected in Queensland went into one fund. Practically all of the money collected was therefore be paid into the official fund so that it can be completely accounted for. I will be in contact with State governments because of the inquiries they have made and I would suggest that it may be in their interests to have a good look at this proposal as regards State legislation. 
I ask leave of the House to move: 'That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for the Northern Territory moving an amendment to clause 6 1 of the Darwin Reconstruction Bill 1975 during the consideration in Committee of the Whole of the amendments made by the Senate in the Bill. 
Bill is then dealt with in its entirety and such further amendments or modifications to the recommendations from the Senate as may be sought by the Government are then moved in the course of debate. I wonder whether the Minister could explain why he is moving in a somewhat unusual procedural fashion. I would be quite happy to give him leave to move, but the normal procedure is that the Minister presents the Bill and then the amendments. 
-As I understand the situation, an amendment is proposed to clause 61 of the Darwin Reconstruction Bill. This must be considered as it relates to new matter that was not discussed in the Senate during its consideration of the Bill. This procedure is necessary in respect of clause 6 1 . 
I' indicate to the Committee that the Government proposes that Senate amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 17 and 34 be agreed to; that amendments Nos 2, 9, 13, 15 and 16 be disagreed to and that amendments be made in place thereof; and that the remaining amendments be disagreed to. In addition, the Government proposes to move an amendment to clause 6 1 as a consequence of the House agreeing to suspend so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent my moving an amendment to that clause during consideration of the Senate's amendments. May I suggest therefore that it may suit the convenience of the Committee to firstly consider together amendments 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 1 1, 12, 17 and 34, and then the remaining amendments in the following order 2, 5, 9, 10 and 14; 13, 15 and 16; 18 to 33, followed by the proposed new amendment to clause 61. 
I move: 
That Senate amendments Nos. 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 17 and 34 be agreed to. 
These amendments were agreed to, principally on the initiative of the Opposition in the Senate. I point out to the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  that I will stay here all night to get this Bill through. He said that the amendments were complex but if he had read the  Bill  in the first place and had been following the Senate proceedings he would have had all the subject matter at his disposal. The amendments that the Government Will move are very simple and can be readily understood by him if he understands the BUI. 
-The amendments have been distributed. They were passed by the Senate. Does the honourable member not know anything about the proceedings of the Senate? I do not intend to debate the amendments which are the subject of my motion for they have been debated at length in the Senate and most of the matters were referred to in my second reading speech. All these amendments were passed by the Senate. I do not intend to take up any more time. The Government accepts the amendments. 
I move: 
That Senate Amendment No. 2 be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following amendments be made: 
Clause 6 1 , omit paragraph (d ). 
Clause 61, after sub-clause 1, insert the following subclause: ( 1A) Without limiting the generality of sub-section ( 1 ), provision shall be made by the regulations for and in relation to the payment of compensation by the Commission or by Australia in respect of matters to which this Act or the regulations relate. ' 
The amendment passed by the Senate is not acceptable to the Government. It is a very wide provision under which any decision or determination by the Commission or Minister or person acting with their authority may give rise to a claim for compensation for loss or damage when such decision or determination affects land, the use of land or the performance of any contract. As do honourable members opposite, the Government accepts the principle that compensation should be paid in appropriate cases where persons suffer damage by reason of the operation of the BUI. This is now acknowledged in clause 6 1(1 A), which is put forward in substitution for the amendment. It is not possible to foresee at this stage the nature and extent of what may be needed by way of compensation. However, the Government accepts that provision should be made for it by regulation, and that it should be mandatory that provision should be made for it by regulation. 
The Opposition's amendment which was passed in the Senate attempts to insert a very wide provision into the BUI which has no apparent limitation and the detail of which has not been clarified. The Government has indicated a sympathetic approach to the Darwin situation. It wil have to identify situations in regard to claims arising out of determinations which affect land and land use and which may give rise to a claim. As honourable gentlemen opposite will know, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  who represents me in the Senate, has indicated that the Attorney-General's Department has been asked for advice on some aspects of this matter and has indicated that the Government will examine it. He later stated that the Government accepts the principle of compensation but would need to look at how the subject could be best dealt with in the Bill. It is important that deserving cases could be helped and others prevented from making unjustified profits as has been the case in Darwin in many instances in the past. This has been dealt with in clause 6 1(1 A) which has been put forward as a substitution. We believe that it would be acceptable to the Opposition because it achieves the same thing. It indicates clearly that the Government accepts the principle and that the provisions put an obligation on the Government to make regulations in regard to compensation. 
As the eligibility for such claims for compensation has to be established and as the Opposition has not indicated who should pay the compensation, it is obvious that these and many other matters will have to clarified before the regulations proposed are made. There is also under consideration by the Government, as mentioned in the Senate, a proposal by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  to cover those who suffered a loss as a result of the cyclone. These issues may well be related and need to be examined. 
The explanation which I have just given sets out the reasons for the rejection. I hope that the Opposition will accept the substitute clause. We believe that it tidies up the legislation, lt accepts the principle of compensation and amends the relevant provisions accordingly. 
I move: 
That amendment No. S be disagreed to. 
This matter has been well canvassed in the Senate. It was the subject of a lot of debate in the Senate. I would assume that honourable members opposite would have read the debate in the Senate Hansard and would have seen that the amendment was fully debated. The amendment substitutes for the ministerial power of direction over the Commission- formerly clause 9 of the Bill- an archaic device taken from the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957 whereby disputes between the Commission and the Minister may be determined by order of the Governor-General. The reconstruction of Darwin is a task of enormous magnitude involving tremendous Government expenditure and responsibility. It is only consistent that the Government, through the Minister, has the right to intervene, if necessary, in the exercise of the grave responsibilities vested in the Commission. The amendment is not acceptable to the Government and it is the wish of the Government that clause 9 of the original Bill be restored. 

 Mr Chairman, before the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  replies, I would say to him that I assume that he has read the extensive debate on this clause that took place in the Senate. I do not know how many senators spoke for or against the amendment, but it was well canvassed in the Senate. 
Apparently the honourable member is still unaware of the proposition put up by the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. 
-That just shows the views of members of the Australian Country Party. They call the Australian National Cattlemen's Council 'rubbish'. That is what they do. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924-1973 and the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Act 1958-1973, I present the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
I want to comment briefly on 2 things without wishing in any way to be acrimonious. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred to the independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Mr Withnall.  Apparently my definition of 'independent' is somewhat different from his. I mentioned last week that  Mr Withnall  had sent a long telex- virtually a brief- to the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  but he did not send a copy to me. Similarly, the document which the honourable member for the Northern Territory has just incorporated in Hansard was sent to the honourable member, which is all right, but the independent member did not send a copy to me. If a person is independent he would not be so biased as that; he would give a copy of the document to both sides in this chamber. However,  Dr Letts  did give me a copy which I have read and which I agreed should be incorporated in Hansard. There was no problem there. 
The basic issue involved relates to the ministerial power of direction. Obviously this is what the honourable member for the Northern Territory and some people in the Northern Territory object to. I have pointed out previously that the reconstruction of Darwin will be a tremendous job. It will involve large sums of taxpayers' money. In fact the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  a short time ago introduced legislation to appropriate funds for this purpose. The Government believes that it, through the Minister and, obviously, this Parliament, has the responsibility to make certain that that money is spent effectively and efficiently in accordance with its policy, keeping in mind always that it is not the Commission's money and it is not private money- it is money belonging to the Government of Australia and provided by the people of Australia in taxes and through other types of revenue. 
As was pointed out last week, the previous Liberal-Country Party Government provided for ministrial direction of this type in some pieces of legislation which it introduced. This Parliament approved of ministerial direction of this kind with respect to the development of AlburyWodonga. It has been pointed out that the situation in respect of Albury-Wodonga is not the same as that of Darwin. I am the first to admit that. But if ministerial direction is all right for Albury-Wodonga, it most certainly should apply to Darwin. This Bill provides for the reconstruction of a devastated city over a period of 5 years. It provides for the welfare, over a short period, of thousands of people and it involves tremendous sums of money. The Government would argue that this is an excellent example of why there should be provision for ministerial direction. The Minister will be responsible to the Government. I think this has been overlooked. Nobody would expect me as the Minister for the Northern Territory to be making unilateral decisions which were contrary to decisions of the Government or the Cabinet, or the policies given effect to by the Bill itself. In Parliament, of course, my actions are subjected to the scrutiny of members of Parliament. To take this power of direction from me and to place the responsibility not on a member of Parliament, not on a Minister, not on this Parliament or the Government but on an outside body I believe could not be in the best interests of the community and certainly would not be in the ' best interests of the taxpayers of Australia. 
It could be argued, of course, as occurred in the Senate, that the Commission could be given certain powers, and for the Commission to inform the Minister of what is taking place. Then, if the Minister does not agree with the Commission, the Governor-General, the Government or Cabinet will decide the issue. To my mind what is proposed is an archaic, frustrating and delaying tactic. Certainly it was incorporated in the National Capital Development Commission Act which provided for the development of Canberra over a number of years- that is the principle underlying that argument- but the Government believes that the Minister should have power of direction with respect to the reconstruction of Darwin because of the emergency of the situation and the tremendous amount of money involved. In the eyes of the Government it is quite clear that it is in the best interests of the people of the Northern Territory to get this job done quickly with a minimum of frustration and delay. The Government believes that what it proposes is the best way to achieve that and, therefore, it rejects the amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That Senate Amendment No. 9 be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following amendment be made: 
Clause 18, omit sub-clause (1), substitute the following sub-clause: 
The Commission shall consist of 8 members, namely- 
a Chairman; 
a Deputy Chairman; 
the General Manager; 
1 member nominated by the Legislative Assembly for the Territory; 
1 member nominated by the Corporation of the City of Darwin; 
1 member of the Darwin Citizens' Council; and 
2 other members. 
The Government cannot accept Senate amendment No. 9 which proposes the replacement of the General Manager on the Commission by one member of the Commission nominated by the Darwin Citizens' Council. However, the Government will agree to the addition to the Commission of one member from the Darwin Citizens 'Council. 
-No. All I am saying is that we cannot accept the Senate amendment proposing that one member be nominated by the Darwin Citizens' Council, but we will accept that the Commission can have one member from the Darwin Citizens' Council. In other words, it is a question of appointment. 
The Government sees the General Manager as the key member of the Commission based in Darwin. In fact, we believe that as the chief executive officer of the Commission he will not be able to hold any other position. He will be selected from applicants who apply to the open advertisements which have already been placed in the Press. The sole criterion for his appointment will be his suitability for the job. It will be a full time position and the successful applicant will be based in Darwin. He will be active, at all times, with respect to the Commission. It is quite clear that he should be an integral part of that Commission. Because of the level at which he will be required to operate during the life of the Commission there will be at all times a need for constant liaison between the Commission and its executive. 
For these reasons the Government believes that the General Manager should be a member of the Commission with full voting rights. The Senate amendment proposes that the General Manager shall not be appointed and, as I indicated earlier, substitutes for 'the General Manager' the words 'one member nominated by the Darwin Citizens' Council'. I will listen to what the honourable member for the Northern Territory has to say about this matter. There are plenty of reasons why a member of the Darwin Citizens' Council should be appointed by the Governor-General in the same way as are other members of the Commission. If one looks at the situation one can see that the Commission could be stacked. Even though nominations will be called throughout Australia it is not unheard of for such a thing to happen. We could reach the position where a person nominated by the Darwin Citizens ' Council is a member of the Corporation of the City of Darwin or the Legislative Assembly and this, of course, could upset the balance of the Commission. The principal objective is to advertise widely in an accepted fashion. The intention is to have the Governor-General appoint a person from the Council to the Commission. The overall objective is to give the Commission as much balance as possible. 
I do not want to say anything more than that. It does seem quite clear to me that the General Manager of the Commission must be a full time member of the Commission. He will, of course, be a key and vital part of the Commission. As such he will play a 24 hour a day role, one might say, as opposed to the role played by the parttime members who obviously will not be able to give their full time to the Commission. 
I move: 
That Senate amendments Nos 10 and 14 be disagreed to. 
Amendments Nos 10 and 14 are consequential to amendment No. 9 on which discussion has just concluded. That being so, they, of course, cannot be agreed to and must be rejected. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That Senate amendment No. 13 be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following amendments be made: 
Clause 19- 
Page 7, line 35, omit '(d) or (e)', substitute '(d), (e) or (f)'. 
Page 7, line 38, omit '(f)', substitute '(g)'. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will notice that it is proposed to add paragraph (g) to the Bill. One has to be a mathematical genius to work out what is involved. But the consequential amendment has been put forward simply to adjust the original Bill and to take into account the changed order of the membership of the Commission. The Commission, as a result of my amendment No. 9, will not also consist of a member of the Darwin Citizens' Council, which is set down in paragraph (f) and '2 other members ', which is set out in paragraph (g). 
We are used to the smart alec tactics of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  The result of this is that - 
-The position now is that there are about 50 members of the Labor Party present but look at the other side of this chamber, where there are 2 members of the Liberal Party - 
... and about 5 members of the Country Party. 
-That interlude has interrupted the Committee stage of the Darwin Reconstruction Bill, one of the most urgent and pressing Bills before the Parliament. All it boils down to is that the honourable member for Griffith is deliberately frustrating and delaying this Bill again. 
We reject Senate amendment No. 13. We simply wish to amend clause 19 by omitting '(d) or (e)' and substituting '(d), (e) or (f)' and by omitting '(f)' and substituting '(g)'. Paragraph 
refers to one member nominated by the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory. Paragraph (e) refers to one member nominated by the Corporation of the City of Darwin and paragraph (f) refers to one member of the Darwin Citizens' Council. This is a consequential amendment to the amendments which were accepted by the chamber a few minutes ago. It is simply a matter of re-arranging the actual lettering in the clause to take account of the inclusion of one member of the Darwin Citizens' Council on the Commission. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That Senate amendment No. IS be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following amendment be made: 
Clause 24, omit '(d) or (e) ', substitute '(d), (e) or (f)'. 
Again this is simply a re-arrangement of the lettering in the clause and, of course, it makes provision for one more member on the Commission. It is a consequential amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That Senate amendment No. 16 be disagreed to, but that, in place thereof, the following amendment be made: 
Clause 24, omit '(e) or (f)', substitute '(e), (0 or (g)'. 
We reject the Senate amendment in view of what happened to clause 18. We seek the inclusion in clause 24 of paragraph (g) which provides that the Governor-General may terminate appointments as outlined in the amended clause. Again it is a consequential amendment with direct relevance to clause 1 8. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That amendments Nos 18 to 33 be disagreed to. 
Many of these are really relevant to whether or not the General Manager is a member of the Commission. If he is a member of the Commission, as the Government insists, then clearly he should be appointed by the GovernorGeneral as are part-time members of the Commission and clearly those matters which are relevant to his terms and conditions of appointment should be within the purview of the Governor-General and governed by the Remuneration Tribunal, as in the case of other members of the Commission. All these amendments again are consequential to the thoughts which have been expressed in the Senate. As I have already explained, if the Governor-General appoints the General Manager, naturallythe terms and conditions will be laid down by the Governor-General in the same way as applies to other members of the Commission. 
I move: 
That the following additional amendment be made: 
Clause 61, omit paragraph (e), insert the following paragraph: "(e) making provision for and in relation to reviews and appeals (including appeals to the courts of the Territory) in respect of matters arising under this Act or the regulations; and". 
The Government agrees that in this legislation there should be a right of appeal in appropriate cases. Clause 61 (1) (e) of the Bill as it stands makes provision for appeals in respect of matters arising under the regulations. I stress that it is specifically tied to the regulations. We accept the argument that it is only fair that anything done under this proposed Act which may cause some injustice should be subject to appeal. In the Bill as it stands the clause refers only to regulations and not to provisions in the Act. What this amendment does is widen the appeal provisions to cover not only matters arising under the regulations but also under the Act. Honourable senators who have expressed concern that the Bill does not make it mandatory on the Governor-General to make regulations will be aware that this would be inappropriate as I have mentioned but in my capacity as Minister for the Northern Territory I have undertaken to have regulations prepared as a matter of urgency to provide for appeals in respect of matters arising under the Act- I stress the words 'under the Act'- and regulations which should be subject to such a process. 
I mention also that it is my intention to ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to make the necessary arrangements to have the Darwin Reconstruction Commission come within the terms of the proposed ombudsman Bill itself. It is hoped that, in due course, this Commission also will be subject to the provisions of the legislation relating to administrative tribunals. What has happened now is that there are provisions for appeals in the Bill. Previously these appeal provisions were tied specifically to regulations. Now they will be subject to all the provisions of the Act itself, including the regulations. As I say, the Government believes and agrees that there should be the right of appeal in appropriate cases. Therefore, I have moved accordingly. 
-On behalf of the Committee appointed to draw up reasons for the House disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, I bring up such reasons which are being circulated to honourable members. Those reasons are: 
Reasons for disagreeing to Senate Amendment No.5. 
Because this Amendment substitutes for a Ministerial power of direction (formerly Clause 9 of the Bill) over the Commission an archaic device with built in delay taken from the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957 whereby disputes between the Commission and the Minister may be determined by Order of the Governor-General. 
The reconstruction of Darwin is a task of enormous magnitude involving tremendous Government expenditure and responsibility. It is only consistent with this that the Government through the Minister, has the right to intervene if necessary in the exercise of the grave responsibilities vested in the Commission 
The Amendment is not acceptable to the Government. It is the wish of the Government that Clause 9 of the original Bill be restored. 
Reasons for disagreeing to Senate Amendments Nos 10 and 14. 
Because these Amendments were consequential upon acceptance of Senate Amendment No. 9 which has been disagreed to by the House and the Amendments are no longer relevant. 
Reasons for disagreeing to Senate Amendments Nos 18 to 33. 
Because these Amendments are relevant to whether or not the General Manager is a member of the Commission. If he is a member of the Commission as the Government insist, clearly then he should be appointed, as are the part time members of the Commission, by the Governor-General. Clearly also those matters which are relevant to his terms and conditions of appointment should be within the purview of the Governor-General, the Minister and the Remuneration Tribunal as the case may be. 
The Government does not agree to these Amendments. 
I move: 
That the Committee 's reasons be adopted. 
in reply- I again emphasise the point that this Government and Liberal-Country Party governments on many occasions gave power of ministerial direction as is proposed in this legislation. It would be unthinkable with respect to the emergency situation in Darwin if the Darwin Reconstruction Commission Bill were to have provision for less power of direction for the Parliament, the Government or the Minister than that found in other legislation. As I have said before, the power of ministerial direction does not mean that I will make unilateral decisions which will be contrary to the wishes of the Government or Government policy. Above all, I am subject to cross-examination . in this Parliament. 
I believe that there are plenty of safeguards in the legislation. Overall, the Government wants to get on with this job of rebuilding Darwin as quickly and as efficiently as possible, taking into account the wishes of the people of Darwin and sound common sense. It is quite clear to some of the people who knew Darwin that there will be differences with respect to where some housing settlements will be located. Obviously we will not build or rebuild houses in danger areas which are subject to tidal wave or storm surge in the event of cyclonic disturbances. It is within the overall provisions with respect to good planning and good common sense that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission will operate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Dr Patterson)  agreed to: 
That in the message returning the Darwin Reconstruction Bill 1975 to the Senate, the Senate be requested to reconsider the Bill in respect of the amendment made by the House of Representatives to clause 6 1 . 
It is a fact that last week the Queensland Premier announced a $10m cattle industry assistance scheme. But, of course, he did not tell us all the facts. It was announced in such a way as to imply that every cattleman in Queensland who wanted this money would be eligible for it. Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, there are very rigorous conditions attaching to the scheme that are going to preclude most of the cattlemen in Queensland from benefiting from it. Although loans are to be at  2  per cent, the proposal is really an adjunct to the rural reconstruction scheme and there is still plenty of money available in the rural reconstruction scheme for the cattle industry. The terms and conditions of the Queensland scheme are that it is to be administered through the Rural Reconstruction Board along the lines of the earlier wool growers assistance scheme. An eligible applicant must first have approached the Development Bank and been refused. The loan is for carry-on requirements, including local authority rates, stock assessment fees, land rents and similar commitments, plus debt reconstruction. But the point is that a person has to go to the Development Bank first and be refused. That is what is written down here. Those are the terms and conditions of the Queensland Government's scheme. Until a person goes to the Development Bank he cannot get this money. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
-Yesterday in this Parliament members of the Australian Country Party rubbished the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. The honourable member for Hewson interjected by calling it rubbish. In today's 'Australian Financial Review' the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party has continued to rubbish the supreme- 

 -Mr Speaker, the honourable member for McMillan rubbished the Australian Cattlemen's Council. The rubbishing of the supreme voice of the cattle industry was, of course, carried on by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. If one reads this morning's 'Australian Financial Review' one can see it in print. 
MrSherry- In black and white. 
-That is right, in black and white. The article stated: 
The  Deputy  Country Party Leader and Opposition agriculture spokesman,  Mr Sinclair,  has in discussions with Council officials criticised its tactics. 
He went on to give them a rubbishing. What is the Australian National Cattlemen's Council? Its members are: the Graziers Association of New South Wales, the United Graziers Association of Queensland, the Graziers Association of Riverina, the Graziers Association of Victoria, the Stock Owners Association of South Australia, the Pastoralists Association of West Darling, the Pastoralists and Graziers Association of Western Australia, the Tasmanian Farmers, Stock Owners and Orchardists Association, the Northern Territory Pastoralist Lessees Association, the Centralian Pastoralists Association and the United Stud Beef Cattle Breeders Association of Australia. These are the organisations that the Deputy Leader of the Country Party, fully supported by members of the Country Party in this place, is rubbishing. The cattle industry has to sit down, as the wool industry found out after the same type of tactics, speak with one voice and put forward constructive proposals. 
-Because the honourable member and his outfit- stooges- are deliberately stirring up trouble throughout Queensland and dividing the cattle industry in Queensland. The Country Party is dividing the industry all through Queensland. The cattlemen know this now after the disgraceful happening at Yeppoon last Friday. Members of the Country Party will not get too many invitations to cattle protest meetings in Queensland any more because their tactics and strategy are to divide the cattle industry and to cause confusion and disarray in it so that they can blame the Government. Let me assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that the cattle industry in Queensland is awake to the Country Party now. 
Government members-Oh! 
-Last week I made it very clear publicly that I would not attend a protest meeting organised by the Country Party- a meeting deliberately staged to divide the cattle industry in Queensland. My apology was accepted. The fact that it was not received more than 24 hours before the meeting is obviously again a plot by the honourable member's Country Party friends because the invitation was given to me at least a week before and I replied immediately to  Mr Hartwig,  the Country Party member. That is why I was not present. I know the tactics of the Country Party. Nothing constructive came out of that meeting except the motions moved rationally and sensibly by one of the leading cattlemen in Queensland,  Mr Onley. 
He put forward a sensible and constructive proposition for the cattlemen to speak with one voice, but the Country Party does not want the cattlemen to do so. It wants them to be completely divided so that they cannot put forward anything with one voice. The Deputy Leader of the Country Party is criticising the Australian National Cattlemen's Council because it put up - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Speaker, this Bill provides for powers to deal with intrusions by Indonesian fishermen into waters under Australian jurisdiction adjacent to our north-west coast. It also amends the principal Act with respect to certain formal matters. Since first enacted in 1952, the Fisheries Act has applied to commercial fishing only and, until 1967, solely to Australian residents. It was then amended to include foreign commercial fishing within the 12-mile declared fishing zone. Honourable members will be aware of the presence last year of significant numbers of Indonesian fishermen on our north-west coast. Since these people may not always be fishing commercially, in a sense capable of proof before an Australian court, the Government has decided that the scope of the Act should be extended to enable Australia to control their operations and, should it become necessary, facilitate bringing them before Australian courts. 
Following discussions between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and  President  Suharto in August last year, Australian and Indonesian officials met in Jajarta in November 1974 to discuss the concern of the 2 Governments about the activities of Indonesian fishermen in Australian waters. An officer of the Western Australian Government was also present at these talks. In summary the understandings reached at the Jakarta talks and proposals for. their implementation mean that Indonesian fishermen will no longer be permitted to fish in waters adjacent to the Australian mainland and immediately adjacent islands, but may do so in waters under Australian jurisdiction adjacent to the offshore islands and reefs of Ashmore, Cartier, Scott and Seringapatam Reefs and Browse Island. As a gesture of friendship Australia will refrain from enforcing its fishery laws against Indonesian fishermen who comply with those limitations. Those who do not may, depending upon the circumstances, be ejected from the area, or referred to the Indonesian authorities, or charged before Australian courts. In addition, the Indonesian fishermen may shelter within the offshore island and reef complexes which I have named but may not go ashore, other than to obtain fresh water on the middle and east islets of Ashmore Reef. Further, they may not take turtles in any waters under Australian fishery jurisdiction nor may they take the controlled resources of the continental shelf except adjacent to the five named reefs and islands. 
The Indonesian Government acknowledges Australia's authority to proceed against Indonesian fishermen who act contrary to the foregoing arrangements and has undertaken to use its best endeavours to notify its fishermen of those arrangements. The 2 Governments will as necessary exchange information about 
Indonesian fishing in the waters concerned. The moratorium on enforcing Australian laws against Indonesian fishermen operating contrary to the arrangements ends on 1 March 1975. To plan Australia's response to intrusions occurring after that date, the Government established an interdepartmental working party including a representative of the Western Australia Government. That is the background to the present Bill and I turn now to its various provisions. 
The machinery to regulate Indonesian fishing depends on clause 3 which adds a definition, private purposes', in relation to non-commercial fishing. This definition will apply generally and has the effect, subject to subsequent clauses, of extending the scope of the Act to permit regulation of all foreign fishing in the declared fishing zone, regardless of its purpose or of the nationality of the foreign boat concerned. Clause 4 extends the existing powers of officers authorising them to board and search fishing vessels, to cover all foreign fishing vessels in the declared fishing zone. As well, the existing power of officers to seize fish taken contrary to the Act or vessels and fishing gear used contrary to the Act, anywhere in waters proclaimed under the Act, has been redrafted for the sake of clarity. 
Clause 5 establishes the offence of fishing for non-commercial purposes in the declared fishing zone with the use of a foreign vessel. As well, in conjunction with clause 6, it revises the existing offence of being in possession or charge of a foreign fishing vessel in that zone, to apply it to all foreign vessels equipped for fishing, regardless of the fishing purpose. There are 4 defences to this latter offence, set out in the proposed sub-sections 13ab(2) and (3). Clause 7 makes it clear the power of courts to order the kinds of forfeiture already provided for in cases of both the existing and the new offences. 
When the Senate amened the Fisheries Bill 1973 the consequential redrafting overlooked three minor deletions. These are dealt with in clauses 8, 9(a) and 11. Clause 9(b) provides, with respect to non-commercial foreign fishing in the declared fishing zone, similar evidentiary provisions to those already in the Act applying to commercial fishing throughout proclaimed waters. Clause 10 repeals the authority for Australia to pay to the administrations of certain external territories, fees received by those administrations for the issue of licences. Papua New Guinea now enjoys full fishery powers and does not issue Australian licences. Norfolk Island has always enjoyed the privilege of free commercial fishing. Finally, by clause 12, a number of machinery amendments are made to update the 
Act in respect of changes in portfolio responsibilities and the name of the Department. 

 Mr Speaker, the main purpose of this Bill is to give effect to an international understanding which has important implications not only for fisheries but for quarantine, illegal entry to Australia, prevention of wilful damage to Australian automatic weather stations and perhaps Customs matters. I commend it to the House and urge its speedy passage so that it can receive assent and come into operation before 1 March 1975. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1973 I present the forty-sixth annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
-Answering the last question first, yes, the Government will consider the provision of carry-on finance as has been now recommended by the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. As the Leader of the Country Party knows, there are 2 basic problems. The immediate problem of course is the need for carry-on finance to stop the dismissal or sacking of stockmen, particularly in the high rainfall areas of Australia where the tick problem is quite serious. Once those men are lost to the cattle industry it is doubtful whether they will return. In addition of course there is the need for normal carry-on finance. The second problem relates to the cattle themselves. There are probably 316 million cattle ready for turn-off in northern Australia and other areas and there is no way in the world that the meat works can handle the number of fat cattle that may come on to the market suddenly. My own personal opinion regarding carry-on finance is that it is essential that some method of financing be made available to those cattle producers in need- those who need finance to keep the men on the properties, particularly, I keep stressing, in the high rainfall areas where unless mustering is carried on consistently to prevent the tick problem getting out of control the danger of redwater spreading into non-tick areas arises. Also there is the danger of an increase of tuberculosis and brucellosis. Some action has to be taken to make certain that the cattle industry remains viable in terms of the cattle themselves and in terms of the cattle men and workmen on those properties. 
I am aware of the statements made by  Mr Harley  published in a particular journal. I am also told that he has been making these statements at various meetings throughout Melbourne. I am under the impression that journalists are supposed to report or try to report the truth. The official death toll, as I stated time and time again in this House, was forty-nine. One person has subsequently died from injuries directly attributed to the cyclone. Coroners in various parts of the Commonwealth are looking at the possibility that some people who were evacuated may have died as a direct result of injuries sustained in the cyclone. But at the moment the official death toll is fifty. 
These types of statements cause distress around Australia. As well as the people who are now in Darwin there are probably 25 000 people- perhaps the figure is a little less than that- who were in Darwin at the time of the cyclone but who are still scattered around Australia. The people who went through the cyclone have relatives in Australia and around the world who perhaps still have not heard from them. The fact that they have not heard from them suggests that they are all right, because we have published the names of those in the official death toll. Six small boats with sixteen people are still missing. But to the best of my knowledge there is certainly nothing like the death toll claimed by the journalist. In other words, the statements made by this journalist are false. 
I believe that the journalist's statement that he personally loaded 52 bodies on to a truck needs investigation, because I, as the Minister for the Northern Territory, the Government and the Parliament are entitled to know whether or not that is a fact. I can find no evidence from the police or the firemen to substantiate anything he has said. He also stated that babies were blown from the arms of mothers. I can find no evidence of this, but it may have happened. It is possibly an exaggeration. 
The journalist has cast a very serious slur on the Northern Territory Police by stating that 8 police officers cleared out and that only one has been located. This has been denied by the police force. But it is a slur on the Northern Territory Police and the local firemen who, as everyone associated with Darwin knows, did a magnificent job. These rumours have been circulated; they have been promoted. A leading entertainer who went to Darwin said that bodies were still lying around in their hundreds. This was again an exaggeration. The churches have made an official statement supporting the correctness of the official death toll. I do not know what can be done with this type of person. Probably the people who saw the devastation in Darwin would not have been surprised if they were told that 1000 deaths had occurred. But the facts are that only 49 bodies have been found, that one person has since died and that 16 people are missing. I personally can vouch for it, because I saw most of the bodies on Christmas night in the police station at Darwin. 
I intend to put this matter in the hands of the Attorney-General as I think we are entitled to know the truth- to know whether in fact what he said is accurate, or only half accurate- because this sort of statement promotes distrust of the Government and distrust of people who worked in Darwin or have been through Darwin. There is nothing that the Government wants to hide about Darwin. There is nothing to be gained by hiding anything about Darwin. This type of what I believe to be scurrilous exaggeration needs to be stopped. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Pig Slaughter Levy Act 1 97 1 . The Bill is complementary to the Pigmeat Promotion Bill 1975 and makes provision for the increase in slaughter levy requested by the industry through the Australian Commercial Pig Producers' Federation. The increase in funds will be used as set out in the Pigmeat Promotion Bill. The Pig Slaughter Levy Act 1971 provides for a maximum rate of 10c per pig for research purposes. This Bill provides for a continuation of that maximum rate together with a maximum rate of 5c per pig for promotion purposes. The operative rates of levy from 1 July 1975 will be 5c per pig for researchunchanged on the present rate- and 5c per pig for promotion. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Act 1971. The opportunity is being taken, while other pig slaughter levy legislation is being amended, to make minor changes to the 1 97 1 Act by omitting the words the Commonwealth' and substituting Australia' and also by omitting from the definition of 'the Secretary' the words 'Primary Industry' and substituting 'Agriculture' following the change in name of the Department. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Pig Industry Research Act 1971. Because of the changes to the Pig Slaughter Levy Act 1971, it will be necessary to amend the proportions of the pig slaughter levy that are devoted to research purposes. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide funds for the promotion of pigmeat by an increase in the rate of pig slaughter levy from 1 July 1975. The Australian Commercial Pig Producers' Federation, the organisation which represents pig producers in all States, has requested an increase in the slaughter levy in order to provide the necessary funds. As living standards rise in Australia there appears to be scope for further increases in the demand for pig meat, particularly if encouraged by promotion. Because the levy under the current Pig Slaughter Act on pigs slaughtered for human consumption only provides for a levy for research purposes it is necessary to amend that legislation to make provision for the levy for promotion. Details of the necessary amendments are set out in the Pig Slaughter Levy Bill 1975 which is being introduced concurrently with this Bill and which establishes a maximum levy of 5c per pig slaughtered to provide funds for promotion. 
The Promotion Bill also provides for the establishment of a Pig Meat Promotion Trust Account into which funds equal to those raised by the levy will be paid. No Government contributions to the promotion funds are involved. A Pig Meat Promotion Advisory Committee will be established which will make recommendations to the Minister for Agriculture concerning expenditure from the account. The Promotion Committee which will be appointed by the Minister, will consist of two representatives nominated by the 
Australian Commercial Pig Producers' Federation, one marketing specialist and one Government representative. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following details obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics on imports of canned pigmeats. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes, without notice or the advice of the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission. 
No. The Technical Committee of the IWC agreed that this matter should be referred to the Scientific Committee for examination and report for consideration at the 1975 IWC meeting. In his capacity as  chairman  of the Technical Committee, the Australian Commissioner,  Mr Bollen,  made the reference to the Scientific Committee. Therefore the minimum size of sperm whales to be taken is still under consideration. 
No. 
No. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
13 members. 
The Council was formed to provide the Australian Minister for Agriculture with detailed advice on farmers' attitudes to policy matters affecting primary producers and on matters of concern to the rural sector generally. 
In appointing members no real regard was taken of their States of residence or the farming organisations they represent. The Council is not intended to be a forum for farmer organisations. Members were appointed because of their understanding of rural matters and their ability to advise on broad policy issues affecting primary producers as a whole. 
Remuneration received by members is in the form of a sitting fee for Council meetings. The current fees are $40 per day for the  Chairman  and $35 per day for the other members. 
Pursuant to section 5 (5) of the Dairy Adjustment Act 1974 I present agreements made with each of the 6 States in relation to the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. Copies of the agreements relating to Victoria and Tasmania will be distributed to all honourable members, but due to the limited number available at this time arrangements have been made to have reference copies of the agreements relating to New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Delegation on the World Food Conference held in Rome from 15 to 16 November 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for conversion to metric measure of the maximum permissible rate of charge on exports of dried fruits, as provided in the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act 1924-1970. Shortly after it came to office this Government accepted the principle, adopted by the previous Government in January 1970, that Australia should convert to use of the metric system as the system of measurement of physical quantities. The Metric Conversion Board, which was established to guide and facilitate the changeover, has reported that by June 1974, metric conversion in Australia was more than 50 per cent complete. Numerous Australian industries have already converted to metric measurement, and many others are well advanced in their conversion programs. The dried vine fruits industry converted to metric measurement with the commencement of the present season on 1 March 1 975. The Australian Dried Fruits Control Board therefore recommended the changes which the Government is now putting before this House in this Bill. 
One variation proposed in the Bill is to substitute the metric unit, the kilogram, for the imperial unit, the pound, on which the charge on exports of dried fruits is based. A second proposed variation provides that the maximum rate of charge which may be applied will be altered from 'three-tenths of a cent for each pound' to 'seven- tenths of a cent for each kilogram'. This is simply a substitution of the nearest rational metric equivalent of the previous rate, although it incidentally results in an increase of 5.8 per cent in the maximum rate of charge. I may add that the actual rate of charge is prescribed by a regulation made under the Act. 
At present it is half the maximum permissible rate. 
Funds raised under the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act provide the major part of the income of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, which is responsible for controlling the export, and the sale and distribution after export, of Australian dried currants, sultanas and raisins. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr E.  L. Robinson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for conversion to metric measure of the maximum permissible rates of levy on dried fruits received at packing houses, as provided in the Dried Fruits Levy Act 1971. This Government has maintained the principle adopted by its predecessor that Australia should convert to use of the metric system as the system of measurement of physical quantities. I understand that metric conversion in Australia is more than half completed, and that numerous industries have already converted fully. With the conversion of the dried vine fruits industry from the commencement of the present season on 1 March 1975, the Dried Fruits Research Committee recommended, and the Government favours, the changes which are now being put before the House in this Bill. 
One amendment proposed in the Bill is to substitute the metric unit, the tonne, for the imperial unit, the ton, on which the levies are based. A second proposed amendment provides that the maximum rates of levy which may be applied will be altered from 'one dollar per ton' to 'one dollar per tonne' in the case of dried vine fruits, and from 'five dollars per ton' to 'five dollars per tonne' in the case of dried tree fruits. This is simply a substitution of the nearest rational metric equivalents of the previous rates, although it incidentally results in increases of 1 .6 per cent in the maximum rates of levy. I may add that the actual rates of levy are prescribed by regulations made under the Act. At present they are half the maximum rates. Funds raised under the Dried Fruits Levy Act provide the main basis for the financing of the Dried Fruits Research Committee, which is responsible to the Government for sponsoring scientific, technical or economic research in connection with the production, processing or packaging of dried fruits. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson) adjourned. 
-As the honourable member would well know, there are a large number of proposals before the Government, including proposals by the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. All these proposals are under active consideration by the Government. 
I must admit that when I first saw those figures I was somewhat concerned. It is a fact that there is a desperate employment situation in Darwin in the sense that there are far more job vacancies than there are applicants. These figures state the position in a situation in which people who complete a job then register for another job. In Darwin a large number of employees are finishing jobs and then going on to other jobs. So the actual number of people employed changes from day to day. However, the salient point is that there are no people in Darwin receiving unemployment benefits- I think that is the crucial thing- although there is a large turnover of jobs. It would appear from the figures that have been made public that there is much unemployment in Darwin. The fact is that there is no unemployment in Darwin; there are no unemployment benefits being paid in Darwin. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Egg Export Control Act 1947-1973, 1 present the twenty-seventh annual report of the Australian Egg Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1974, together with  financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
-The fact is, of course, that I was refused a pair by the Leader of the Opposition. After Cyclone Tracy an arrangement was made with  Mr Snedden  and the Opposition that in the event of a request for a pair by the Minister for the Northern Territory, who has a responsibility to this Parliament for the reconstruction of Darwin, so that he could go to Darwin to attend to serious ministerial responsibilities, that pair would be granted. On the first sitting day on which the present Leader of the Opposition- the honourable gentleman for Wannon- took over the leadership of the Liberal Party of Australia, which was last Tuesday week, I asked the Opposition's  Deputy  Whip, the honourable member for Griffith, whether the same arrangements would apply. He said: 'Unquestionably, yes'. He sympathised with the position concerning my ministerial responsibility in Darwin. 
Today.the most important meeting of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is to take place. It will be at this meeting that the tenders for housing contracts will be discussed, recommendations made and decisions taken. It was to be at this meeting that the Commission was to recommend to me the people of Darwin to be appointed to the Darwin Community Committee, and decisions were to be taken. It was at this meeting that I was to explain Government policy regarding temporary housing, the amount of money to be made available for the purchase of caravans and so on. It was today that I was also to attend, as Chairman, a meeting of the Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund concerning the provision of more money to the evacuees and the other people of Darwin. 
-That shows just how seriously the Australian Country Party takes the position of the people of Darwin. In the normal way I asked for a pair. At 5.45 o'clock last night I received a cryptic message that a pair had been refused on the direction of the Leader of the Opposition. I have learned that the reason- the pathetic reason- was that the honourable member for Kennedy was to move today a motion concerning northern development which has been on the notice paper since 9 July of last year. In  2Vi  years the honourable member for Kennedy has not asked one question without notice of me concerning northern development. In 2V4 years he has not moved one urgency motion concerning northern development. The serious thing about it all is the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition, who has broken the convention that always has been followed in this House by Liberal and Labor governments that whenever Ministers have serious portfolio responsibilities and have to attend to matters outside this parliament a pairing automatically will be granted. But the Leader of the Opposition does not understand people. He has not even been to Darwin. He does not know the seriousness, the suffering and the terrible position that the children of Darwin are going through at the present time. Compare that with the attitude of  Mr Snedden,  who went to Darwin on Boxing Day. He gave the Acting Prime Minister and me certain assurances and, standing on a truck together with the GovernorGeneral, repeated those assurances on behalf of the Liberal Party. The attitude adopted by the Leader of the Opposition does not surprise me because he does not understand ordinary people. He has successfully stabbed two of his leaders in the back.  His  contemptuous, arrogant attitude - 

 - Mr Speaker - 
I seek the same indulgence as did the Leader of the Opposition. 
-Quite briefly, it is a fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  does not know the Darwin Reconstruction Act for which he voted. I have no jurisdiction over when meetings will be called. It is the Darwin Reconstruction Commission itself which calls the meetings. The Commission weeks ago called a meeting for yesterday. Regarding the imputation about running away from a debate on northern development, as I said before, the matter which is to be raised today has been on the notice paper for 9 months. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has not asked one question on northern development. Not one urgent matter of public importance concerning northern development has been raised in  2Vi  years. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (WannonLeader of the Opposition)-Mr  Speaker,  may I make one final point. I do not wish to be tedious about this matter. 
I was not given leave. 
Rarely have I heard in this House such shallow, unsubstantiated and hypocritical statements as those made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  Firstly he delivered a vicious attack on the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and then, in the course of his speech, he viciously questioned my credibility. The honourable member for Kennedy is the last person in this House who should speak about credibility. Let him listen to me. He was a member of the Australian Labor Party for a number of years and the  President  of a branch of the Australian Labor Party. 
-That is right. Then he was a member of the Queensland Labor Party, or the Democratic Labor Party, for a number of years. But he could not get anywhere in the Labor Party or in the DLP so what did he do? He joined the Australian Country Party. It is well known throughout the north that if he had lost the plebiscite for the Country Party he was going to join the Liberal Party. That is the sort of person who talks about credibility. The last person in this House who should talk about credibility is a person who rats on his own party. The honourable member has done it twice and he would have done it 3 times. So let us not hear any more nonsense from that honourable member about credibility. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I will tell you about Karumba. I will tell you what the Liberal-Country Party Government did for Karumba. Nothing! 
in reply- The purpose of the Bills before the House is to amend the parent Acts in order to raise finance for the promotion of a product which is becoming more and more important to Australia, not only on the domestic front but also overseas. I was interested in the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  He spoke about the need for promotion, but at the same time warned that care should be exercised to ensure that the product is not promoted at the expense of some other product. I certainly endorse those remarks, because I believe that it will be the responsibility of those in charge of the promotion of pig meats on the export market, and to some degree on the domestic market, to ensure that, whilst each industry wants to maximise its profit, our products are looked at in a total concept, which will be to Australia 's benefit. We are dealing with the promotion of meat, and there can be wasteful promotion if one product is promoted at the expense of another product. There can be a lot of duplication, particularly when only a certain amount of money is available to buy those products. I completely endorse the comment that those responsible for promotion should treat pig meats as being complementary to other meatsand perhaps even other products, depending on which country is involved- or as being supplementary to other products that Australia may be selling. I should imagine that that has been well thought out by the people who eventually will have the responsibility for the promotion of pig meats. 
Reference has been made to the Government's responsibility to provide, say, matching grants for promotion; but I think I am right in saying that it has not been a general principle of previous governments or of this Government to match funds for promotion. In general, governments have tried to match funds for research, and basically this is being done in the case of the pig industry. In regard to the matter of moneys for promotion being paid by the industry into a trust fund, the Government has taken the advice of the industry, which put forward a suggestion that a 5c levy be paid into a trust account; but of course the promotion committee will determine the actual levels of expenditure. That does not mean that the Government will not give close consideration to the possibility of providing funds for promotion; but I believe that it has been made clear by the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan),  in quoting the views of  Mr Campbell,  that the industry is prepared to look after its own promotion and to find its own funds for promotion, with the Government providing the administrative framework for the organisation of the promotion funds. Of course, the Government will contribute indirectly because officers of the Department of Agriculture will be engaged on the periphery of the promotion. As I understand it, their travelling expenses, etc., will be paid by the Government and will not come out of the fund. 
I should like to thank honourable members for their remarks in support of the Bills. The pig industry has been something of a Cinderella for a number of years. The honourable member for New England was right when he said that for some reason when people think of pig production they think of pigs wallowing in the mud, with a bit of swill being tossed to them over the fence. People think of pig production as being a very dirty type of industry. This may have been the position for a number of years, particularly in regard to some of the dairy farms; but I think it can be said that there has been almost a revolution in pig production, particularly on a scientific basis. In fact, taking top class piggeries in Australia and around the world, it would be difficult to find a cleaner, more hygienic industry, particularly in regard to breeding. One can only congratulate the breeders on the effort they have made in ensuring that disease does not develop in the pig industry. I have not been to many piggeries, but at one to which I have been a visitor is required to take his shoes off or to saturate them in a chemical compound bath to ensure that he does not carry any disease, either indigenous or exotic, into the piggery. The disease would hardly be exotic, unless the visitor had come from overseas. 
I think that the pig industry can look forward to years of prosperity as the initiative is taken by the breeders of pigs and transmitted throughout the industry. There is no doubt that research must be endorsed. In every primary industry today too frequently is research inclined to be downgraded. Research in the primary industries, particularly into livestock, is a constant battle against the hazards of efficient livestock production. The overcoming of a disease, the rate of survival of a particular breed, the weight for age, the growth rate, the response to different types of rations, and so on are all things that flow to a degree from fundamental and applied research. The Government is conscious of the pig industry's wishes in the fields of research and promotion and is moving ir accord with the wishes of the industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The basic question asked of me tonight by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  contained an allegation that a person, an assistant social worker who addressed a meeting of the Australian Assistance Plan turned out to be an employee of the Federal Government and that this person alleged that she was being paid with relief funds provided for Darwin following cyclone Tracy.  Her  proof of that allegation was that she signed a statutory declaration. 
-The person whom she told signed a statutory declaration. It is one thing to make an allegation in the Parliament, but I believe that the honourable member for Fisher ought to have consulted me and talked to me about it first, because the answer is quite simple. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Dried Fruits Levy Bill, as they are related measures. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore, I suggest,  Mr Deputy 
Speaker, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969, I present the fifth annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
For the information of honourable members I present the resolutions of the ninety-first meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council held in Sydney on 14 February 1975. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The EEC Commission estimated that stocks of beef held by official intervention agencies at 22 February 1975 amounted to 308 530 tonnes. The amount of beef held in private storage under special arrangements in mid-February 1975 is officially estimated by the EEC Commission at 48 052 tonnes. 
Although no official details of EEC intervention stocks since 22 February are available, unofficial estimates suggest that at the end of March 1975 the volume was about 340 000 tonnes. 
No official details for current intervention purchases and sales are available. 
The Minister for Agriculture has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In November 1973, the FAO Conference passed a resolution calling on governments to adopt an International Undertaking on World Food Security. Under the terms of the Undertaking countries would adopt national stockholding policies which, in combination, would maintain minimum safe levels of basic food stocks for the world as a whole. Since that time Australia has participated in the following international meetings called specifically to discuss stocks and reserves proposals: 
Meeting of Ad hoc working party in FAO, Rome, 27-3 1 May 1974. 
Meeting of major grain exporting countries, London, 8 February 1975. 
Ad hoc meeting of major grain exporting and importing countries on international grain reserves, London, 10-11 February 1975. 
Expert consultation on national cereal stock policies, FAO, Rome, 24-28 February 1975. 
Australian representatives have also attended the following meetings at which aspects of the reserves question have been discussed: 70th Session of International Wheat Council, London, 24-27 June 1974. 18th Session of FAO Intergovernmental Group on Grains, Rome, 12-18 September 1974. 49th Session of FAO Committee on Commodity Problems, Rome, 14-25 October 1974. 
World Food Conference, Rome, 5-16 November 1 974. 64th Session of FAO Council, Rome, 18-19 November 1974. 71st Session of International Wheat Council, London, 25-28 November 1974. 72nd Session of International Wheat Council, London, 13-14 February 1975. 1st meeting of International Wheat Council Preparatory Group examining the possible bases for a new International Arrangement to replace the International Wheat Agreement, 1971-London, 20-21 March 1975. 
Multilateral Trade Negotiations, meeting of Group 'Agriculture', Geneva, 24-25 March 1975. 
No decisions as such were reached but progress was made in clarifying the views of potential participating countries on basic elements which should be included in a grain reserves system. 
Meetings held since the London meeting of 10-11 February have been the FAO Expert Consultation, the two International Wheat Council meetings and the meeting of the Agriculture group under the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, all listed above. 
Yes, with the exception only of the exporters' meeting in London on 8 February 1975. 
Details of the proposed international reserves system have not yet been worked out to a degree which would permit any specific approach to be made to the OPEC countries along the lines suggested. However, the Australian Government is firm in the view that the costs of any reserve stockholding system must be shared on an equitable basis among all participants and not merely the grain exporting countries. Australia believes that the OPEC countries could assist greatly by joining in any scheme and by providing finance to certain other countries where this is necessary to enable them to participate. 
UNCTAD Conference on Raw Materials  (Question No. 2381) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department and the Australian Dairy Produce Board are unable to confirm whether the New Zealand Board has completed a contract. The March 1975 'Dairy Exporter' which is the official organ of the New Zealand Dairy Board reports a statement by the New Zealand Minister for Agriculture which says that the Dairy Board was poised to make a deal but that it hinged on milk quality and New Zealand's ability to supply quality milk at competitive prices. 
In November 1974 the Australian Dairy Produce Board signed a letter of understanding with the Iranian Milk Producing and Distributing Company for the supply of Australian dairy products for the Iranian school milk program and the  Chairman  of the Board will be returning to Iran next month for further negotiations. The Board expects that the first shipment of Australian skim milk powder and anhydrous milk fat will be made during 1975-76 to Iranian milk recombining plants which at this stage are still in the course of construction. 
The Mission did not go to the Middle East to make firm deals or sign contracts. The principal overall purpose of the visit was to consolidate our standing in the Middle East and demonstrate to the nations visited that Australia 's intentions in that area are for mutual benefit. 
In agriculture the main purpose was to convey at Government to Government level Australia's desire to expand trade that already exists and to get a better picture of what the possibilities are. In Iran specifically, Mission members were informed of that country's interest in long term contracts and joint ventures related to the supply of agricultural commodities on a commercial basis. This information is being passed to the appropriate commodity boards and others to assist them advance our agricultural trading interests. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1 to 5) As Australian Minister for Agriculture I do not have responsibility for hen quotas. These are administered in the States by the relevant Ministers for Agriculture and/or Primary Industries and in the Australian Capital Territory by the Minister for the Capital Territory. Production matters in the Northern Territory where there is no quota are the responsibility of the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
I have no evidence that the campaign is being curtailed in any way. The honourable member does not have to convince me of the great need to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis from the cattle herds of Australia. Since the campaign started on 1 January 1970 approximately $22.5m has been spent by the Australian Government and the States in the eradication programs. In respect of tuberculosis, the honourable member will know that there is compensation for the compulsory slaughter of reactors, principally in northern Australia and in pockets of South Australia. The scheme has been very good in that tuberculosis has been almost eradicated from southern parts of Australia. 
The situation in respect of brucellosis is a little more difficult because there is no compensation scheme for the compulsory slaughter of cattle that are affected by brucella- mainly brucella abortus- and there has been a dropping off in the number of testings for brucellosis. This would have relevance to the honourable member's question. On the other hand, there has been an increase in vaccinations, so cattle producers are well aware of the need to continue to vaccinate against brucellosis. There has been an increase in testings for tuberculosis no doubt due to the fact that there is compensation, and I am pleased to say that the incidence of this disease has been reduced by about 50 per cent. I think I am right in saying- the honourable member will be well aware of this- that the Prime Minister referred to the Industries Assistance Commission the question of compensation for brucellosis and tuberculosis. I expect that that report will be available to the Parliament any day now. 
There are certainly very strong grounds for paying compensation for cattle that have been affected or which have a positive reaction to brucellosis and have to be slaughtered. I need not emphasise to the Parliament that the United States has a program to eradicate brucellosis completely by 1983. It would be to Australia's advantage to have brucellosis eradicated from the Australian herds by that date because if we do not, our export trade runs the grave risk of being stopped due to brucella in our herds. Also, other countries follow the United States regulations in respect of hygiene. I would personally argue, of course, that this scheme should continue. I believe it is the Government's policy for the scheme to continue for I have seen nothing to the contrary. As to the deficit in the brucellosis and tuberculosis trust account, I will certainly look into the matter for the honourable member. I have no knowledge of such a deficit. In fact, as far as I am aware there has been no diminution in testings except in the brucellosis field. I assume that this has some relevance to the price of beef. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Wheat Research Act 1957 I present the Seventeenth Annual Report on the operation of that Act. 
I am aware of statements being made by the Premier of Western Australia and others regarding the proposed water conservation scheme on the Gascoyne River to serve the Carnarvon area. As regards legislation, I am aware, as other honourable members are aware, that  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia, when opening the Parliament, referred to proposed legislation for the Ross River Dam in Queensland and the Carnarvon-Gascoyne project in Western Australia. As honourable members know, the Government has acted on the Ross River project. Legislation has been enacted and that scheme is now in operation in terms of construction. As regards the Gascoyne project, the technical investigations have been completed by my Department. There were, however, serious environmental objections raised against some of the aspects of the scheme itself. 
The honourable member will know that the whole project is based on pumping from bores in the Gascoyne River in which there is the possibility of salt intrusion if the safe draw is exceeded. I am happy to say that the environmental aspects have been overcome. There is agreement on this matter between the Australian Government and the Western Australian Government. The proposal will be now considered in the normal way by Cabinet in the budgetary context. 
In brief, it is quite obvious that the honourable member for Kennedy knows absolutely nothing of what is happening in Darwin.  His  facts are completely wrong. He bases his whole allegation on the statement by  Mr Withnall,  who is now regarded in the Northern Territory as the Northern Territory galah. Almost every day he makes statements against the Government. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For commercial reasons the Australian Egg Board, which exports on behalf of the State Egg Boards, does not normally reveal its actual stock holdings. It has, however, advised for the honourable member's information that its present stocks are considerably less than the figure mentioned. 
Foodstuffs are being supplied to refugees in IndoChina through the joint operations of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, which is closely  linked with the work done by Red Cross organisations. At present there has been no request received for egg pulp or other egg products but requests for milk powder and canned meat are being met by Australia. Egg powder has been offered to the Joint United Nations/Food and Agriculture Organisation World Food Program as part of Australia's commodity pledge but has not been ordered in recent years. 
Milk Reconstitution Plant at Phnom Penh (Question No. 2463) 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Maranoa can read, but if he can he will have seen that in recent weeks a lot of publicity has been given to the very good deal that the Australian Government has given to the beef producers of Australia. Immediately after question time I will introduce a Bill making provision for almost $20m to be made available to the beef industry at very low rates of interest. In fact, in Queensland the interest rate will be  3lA  per cent. What other section of the community gets money today at an interest rate of 3V4 per cent? In all other States - (Honourable members interjecting)- 
Pursuant to section 1 8( 1 ) of the Dried Fruits Research Act 1971I present the third annual report of the Dried Fruits 
Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would have thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Sinclair)  would have given a lot of importance to the Bill which I am introducing now, the States Grants (Beef Industry) Bill, one which he himself - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to a decision by the Government to join with the States in the provision of carry-on loan funds for beef producers. The Bill provides for an amount of $ 19.6m to match State allocations for carry-on funds which comprise: Queensland, $10m; New South Wales, $5m; Victoria, $2m; South Australia, $ 1.5m; Western Australia, $0.8m; and Tasmania, $0.3m. The terms and conditions under which these funds are being made available by the Australian Government will be formalised by an exchange of letters between the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the respective Premiers. The terms and conditions which have been agreed upon by Ministers are: 
Initially the interest rate on the loans to producers will be 4 per cent per annum in all States except Queensland. In Queensland, the interest rate will be 31/4 per cent based on 4 per cent for Australian Government funds and  21/2  per cent for Queensland funds; 
The maximum term of the loan will be 7 years; 
No repayments of principal will be due in the first year and during the first 12 months interest will be capitalised and repayable over the term of the loan; 
The interest rate and repayment terms will be subject to review after the first year with a view to commencement of normal debt servicing requirements. After that there will be an annual review with the aim of liquidating the debt as soon as possible within the maximum term of 7 years; 
There will be a limit of $ 10,000 on each individual loan except in Queensland where an upper limit has yet to be decided. 
The arrangements between the Australian and State governments will provide for equal sharing of loan administration costs and of any shortfall of either principal or interest repayments by producers. Honourable members will be aware that this is a very difficult time for the beef industry. Despite a slight improvement in the position over the last 2 or 3 months and the significant increase in domestic consumption of beef in Australia the Government believes that such action taken in conjunction with the States is fully justified. It was in recognition of this that the Government proposed to the States a joint lending operation. The proposal was to provide carry-on funds to beef producers who, while viable under more normal market conditions, were unable at present to obtain carry-on funds through normal sources. The result is that the States have made decisions on the amounts which they will provide. The total amount of $ 19.6m mentioned in the Bill equates to the total of the amounts announced by the State governments. 
 This Bill concerns itself with the States. For the interest of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who will be wondering why the Northern Territory has not been included, I point out that funds also will be provided to the Northern Territory to enable cattle producers there to obtain carry-on finance on the same basis as the States. This money will be appropriated in the normal way to the Department of the Northern Territory. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
-Yes. I will answer the questions that he has put up. First of all, the honourable member spoke about the small man, the small farmer. Why did his Government not look after the small farmer? The policy of the then Liberal-Country Party Government is well known throughout Australia. It was: Get big or get out. That was the policy of the LiberalCountry Party Government: Get big or get out. We saw the greatest exodus of dairy farmers and other farmers from the industry - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask honourable members to remain silent. The previous  speaker  was heard, as he should have been heard, in silence. That must apply now. 
-We saw the greatest exodus of small farmers, under the LiberalCountry Party Government, leaving the respective industries. An analysis of subsidies reveals that most of the subsidies paid under the LiberalCountry Party Government went to the big producers and the big companies, many of them foreign companies. Statistics show that more than 70 per cent of total payments of subsidies went to fewer than 20 per cent of producers. Let us not hear this philosophy on the part of the National Country Party about how it protects the small family farmer as, under the former Administration, we saw the greatest exodus of small resident bona fide family farmers leaving primary industry. 
As I have said, I listened intently to learn something constructive of what the Opposition would do if it were in government. But I heard exactly the same harangue that we always hear regarding the great deficit that the Opposition talks about. Never once do members of the Opposition rise and say what expenditure they will cut. They rise and say that they will increase expenditure. Do we hear them say that they will decrease the defence vote? Of course not; they want to increase it. Do we hear them say that they will decrease the education vote? Of course not. Do we hear them say that they will decrease the primary industry vote? Every proposal, every criticism, every argument put by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  has been to increase- I repeat the word 'increase'- Government spending in the primary production sector. Do we hear them say that they will decrease pensions? No. But on their record, of course we know full well that that is probably what they would do. They certainly would not give the same rate of increase as the Labor Party has given in the pension field. Do we hear them say that they will decrease the housing vote? Of course they do not. We could carry the question right through to the fields of water conservation and roads, and the same answers would apply as applied in respect to primary industry. I am glad that the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is in the chamber because there has been criticism by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party over some actions taken with respect to the Coombs report. I have in my possession a letter written by the Leader of the National Country Party to the Honorary Secretary of the Queensland Dairymen's Organisation in Monto. Apparently the Dairymen's Organisation asked some specific questions - 
-The letter was written on 24 April 1974, that is, before the last Federal election. The Dairymen's Organisation asked the then Australian Country Party what it would do with respect to certain things, such as the reconstruction scheme and the $10m special Commonwealth Grant which the Leader of the Australian Country Party promised to implement immediately after the election. The Leader of the Australian Country Party said in his letter: 
Immediately after the election I asked the Prime Minister to implement our proposal . . . 
He then said:  . . . I cannot give you any undertaking that the proposal would be back-dated again because of the financial situation the new Government will find itself in. 
He then went on to make some remarks in answer to a question whether he would reinstate the free milk scheme, which the National Country Party is criticising this Government for having stopped because of the tremendous waste and other reasons. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member for Gippsland will remain silent or I shall name him. I shall not warn him again. 
-The Leader of the Australian Country Party said: 
I have expressed strong opposition to the ending of the free milk program for school children but again I cannot give you an undertaking that the program would be reinstated. 
On the question of taxation concessions for primary producers, and whether he would reinstate those concessions, the Leader of the Australian Country Party said: 
The question of reinstatement of taxation concessions is one that also will have to be considered in the future. 
I ask honourable members to listen closely to his next remarks. He said: 
I would not necessarily support reinstatement of these concessions in their previous form but would want to see a thorough examination of the whole matter. 
If we are going to have a knock-down drag-out argument on primary production honourable members opposite should at least let us know what their policies are with respect to the matters they criticise this Government for. We hear the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party say that we have a rural depression in Australia. But let us look at the figures. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates that the total value of rural production in Australia in 1974-75 will be $5,400m. That is an increase of almost $2,000m since this Government took office. The value of crop production has risen by 99 per cent in the last 12 months to $2,026m. 
The honourable member suggests that costs have gone up by 99 per cent in the last 12 months.  His  remarks show the absurdity of the National Country Party and the type of things its members are saying throughout the country. It is because of such remarks that people hold them in such ridicule in many areas. To say that costs have gone up by 99 per cent in the past 12 months is utter rubbish. Certainly the value of production of livestock has gone down. As everybody knows, this is due to international market factors. With regard to assistance to rural industry, if one looks at the figures one finds that this Government has given more in real terms, taking into account costs, than any previous government since Federation. Yesterday the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  gave details of that assistance. He said that $950m has been provided in assistance to industry, and of that amount $670m has been provided to primary industry. The wool marketing assistance plan has received $380m. 
-What does it matter whether the money is provided by way of loans. How much did the previous Government give by way of loans? Did the honourable member's Government guarantee a floor price scheme for more than 12 months? 
-The honourable member's Government did not guarantee a floor price scheme for more than 12 months. Thirty million dollars has been provided for the rural reconstruction program; $46m by way of fertiliser bounty and $20m as an advance to the Commonwealth Bank for rural lending. Only yesterday I introduced a Bill with respect to the beef industry which provided for $20m at low rates of interest. 
In real terms. In connection with rural roads, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has completely exposed the hypocrisy of State Ministers, particularly in Queensland. The facts are that 76 per cent of the total road grants in Queensland go to rural areas, compared with 59 per cent under the previous Commonwealth aid program for roads. 
-The honourable member for Gippsland says that it is not true. I can assure him that it is accurate; it is true. In regard to the export diversification scheme to be introduced, special provision has been made for beef producers in the Northern Territory and the Kimberleys. I did not hear the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party say much about the wool program. All he talked about were proposals which would increase the budget deficit tremendously. He did not give one concrete proposal, except to further the floor price scheme, which would further increase the deficit. This Government has provided $3 80m to the industry in this respect. It has made determined efforts in the international field to sell wool. It may interest people to know that we are now selling $25m worth of wool a year to China. The Government has continued the wool research and promotion program. It has increased the first advance on wheat from $ 1 .20 to $ 1 .50 a bushel. More importantly perhaps, the increased first advance will be paid on all wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. This, in effect, endorses the industry's proposals for suspension of the wheat quotas. The home consumption price of wheat has been increased. I could go on and on. 
I have dealt with the rural reconstruction scheme. Under the rural credit scheme, term loan funds have been increased from $62m in August 1973 to $72.6m in 1974. Mention was made of natural disasters. This Government's record in natural disaster is good. Its record in relation to floods and to Darwin is better than what the previous Government would have done. All we have heard is complaints. We have not had any praise from the National Country Party with respect to Darwin. At least we have had some from the Liberal Party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-The honourable member for the Northern Territory discussed this matter briefly with me last Thursday evening. All decisions made were in accordance with the Act. I can assure the honourable gentleman that there has been no contravention in any way with respect to that Act. I shall look at all the questions he has asked- I think there were about eight- and will write him a letter explaining the procedures taken. 
-The honourable member knows full well that this matter has been under serious consideration for some weeks. It is still under consideration. There are established procedures to be followed and when the matter is finalised a statement will be made by the Minister for Agriculture at the appropriate time. 
I understand that the honourable member for Casey has in his electorate at Kingslake some of the finest potatoes grown in Australia. I know that for some time he has had representations from growers in his area who were concerned and who are still concerned at the level of imports of particular types of processed potatoes for flakes and other products. These imports obviously have a direct or indirect effect on the level of prices through supply and demand factors in Australia. All honourable members associated with the potato industry or with a knowledge of it know that it is an industry in which there is a great variability in production levels from season to season. Obviously, when there is a shortage of potatoes and prices are high, there is the incentive to import potato products to take up the slack in the amount of potato products available in Australia, and this again has an effect on prices and causes some concern to potato growers. If potato growers believe they are financially hurt, they can take their case to the Temporary Assistance Authority to have it examined. 
I will look at the last 2 questions the honourable member asked regarding the progress being made by the Australian Statistician in respect of forecasting, because I believe that such forecasting is needed. Rather than having to look at statistics that are, say, 3 months old, it would be far better to put forward estimates of imports. Those estimates could help not only with respect to matching supply and demand but also with respect to plantings of potatoes. I will have pleasure in referring that question also to the Minister for Agriculture. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
I refer the honourable member to the comments in Part (3) of the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2243, 13 May 1975 (Hansard, page 2198). In addition, a great deal of information regarding agricultural commodity yields, farm costs and returns has been published regularly prior to and since 1972. Two main sources of such information are the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
Refer to answer to (3) above. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Information available to me indicates that the Branch of the International Wool Secretariat in France spends some 85 per cent of its budget on wool promotion, the remainder being spent on technical services to the textile industry, including quality control for the Woolmark and Woolblendmark schemes and administration. Last northern hemisphere winter, French wool processors contributed the equivalent of $A 150,000 for a wool promotion campaign in conjunction with the IWS and additional to the IWS program. For the coming northern hemisphere winter, the French industry is to contribute $500,000 for a campaign designed and controlled by the IWS and additional to the IWS program. 
Annual activity reports and budgets of the IWS and the Australian Wool Corporation in relation to promotion are presented to the Australian Wool Industry Conference personally by the  Chairman  and senior officials of the IWS and the Corporation. This enables woolgrower representatives to question IWS and Corporation representatives on any aspects of promotional policies and expenditure. Detailed information on the cost and content of the IWS activities, together with similar information for the promotion activities of the Australian Wool Corporation is provided annually to the Government and is available to the Executive Committee of the AWIC. This information is not published as it could be of assistance to the promotion activities of competitor fibre organisations. 
Passenger Aircraft: Non-smoking Sections  (Question No.  2423) 
The Minister for Agriculture had provided the following details obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics in answer to the honourable member's questions: 
Imports (in kilograms) of dried fruit for the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 were: 
-The first point made by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Sinclair)  was an accusation that the Labor Government was guilty of, to use his words, 'incredible delays' in making up its mind and in making decisions. I would have thought that this would have been an allegation which the Liberal-National Country Parties would never raise in this Parliament with respect to price support for wool. Twentythree years of indecision and uncertainty were experienced by the wool industry under LiberalCountry Party Government. The Opposition Parties were finally tossed out of office because they refused to make positive decisions on a reserve price scheme, on an acquisition scheme, on a scheme which would give security to the wool industry of Australia. Yet the Opposition has the temerity in this House to criticise this Government, which has made positive decisions on the wool industry, for not making decisions on certain matters. 
Let us look at the record and performance of the previous Government with respect to decision making in the wool industry- a tragedy of errors and a tragedy with respect to a lack of action. It brought chaos throughout the wool industry. As I said before, in the end, because of its refusal to make positive decisions, it was tossed out of Government. In 1964-65 there was a desperate situation in the wool industry. Wool industry leaders stomped the country for a reserve price scheme. The policy of the Australian Labor Party in Opposition was for a reserve price scheme. This was enunciated time and again by the executive member of the Labor Party,  Mr Reg  Pollard. Our policy was to introduce a floor price scheme. What did the Country Party do? Its own Minister,  Sir Charles  Adermann, obtained approval from the Cabinet for a reserve price scheme. But then, instead of the Government backing him and introducing legislation for a reserve price scheme, it took the question back to the industry. 
Then we saw a fiasco with the industry tearing itself apart because the Government did not have enough spine to introduce a reserve price scheme at that time. It played into the hands of the international wool cartels which were controlling many elements of the wool industry. There was no security in the wool industry then. It was crying out desperately for a reserve price scheme. Uncertainty reigned in the industry. There was refusal to make decisions. It was obvious that the wool industry was going to be in serious trouble because of the refusal of the Liberal-Country Party to make decisions. The result was that there was no floor price. Let us not have any nonsense about the previous Liberal-Country Party government introducing any floor price. It had the opportunity. It had the opportunity to implement a reserve price, but it did not do so. When a decision was taken that there should be no floor price, what happened? There was great rejoicing by the brokers and the proponents of the archaic auction system in Australia and overseas. There was great rejoicing by the international brokers. It was a complete victory for the forces who wanted to see the archaic auction system remain. What did that weak government do? Nothing. It accepted the decision of the referendum. It did exactly nothing with respect to the reserve price scheme. It should have backed the then Minister for Primary Industry,  Sir Charles  Adermann, and introduced legislation for a reserve price scheme. Then the industry would have had stability. That is the history of this matter. As I said before, do not let us have any claptrap from honourable members opposite about what they did when they were in government. 
After the fiasco, the industry had to reorganise. There were clouds of uncertainty on the horizon. Everybody could see the indicators. The prices of acrylics, nylons and polyesters were going down. It was obvious that the wool price was going to collapse. Every member in this Parliament will know that it collapsed with a vengeance in 1970-71. Then we saw the introduction of the abortive deficiency payments scheme. We saw money being handed out to the biggest brokers and the biggest cartels in the country. What security did that deficiency payment offer to the small wool producer? Did it offer any security for the future? Of course not. Then what happened? This is the Opposition which talks about decision making. Instead of making a decision then, it tossed its problems to a committee chaired by  Sir John  Crawford- a man who has tons of ability in this field, as everbody knows. Did the previous Government adopt  Sir John  Crawford's report? No, of course it did not. What did that Government do next? It called for the Randall report. Finally, to end the saga, it combined the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission into the Austraiian Wool Corporation. But the Australian Wool Corporation was toothless and clawless. It had no real powers. The Government at that time- the LiberalCountry Party Government- refused to give it powers because, on the one hand, it had the powerful brokers and the international cartels and, on the other hand, it had the wool industry. So, we had a Wool Corporation which, as I said, was toothless and clawless. It had no real powers to manage the supply of wool offered for sale. It had limited powers with respect to trading with overseas countries. It could not trade in wool products. It could not enter into foreign aid programs and promote wool. It could not process wool. All it did was preserve the archaic auction system. 
It was not until this Government came to power that positive decisions were taken. One of the first things this Government did was to restructure the Australian Wool Corporation, to make it stronger, to give it wider perspective and to give it more effective representation so that it represented all the major aspects of the wool industry. The result was a stronger Australian Wool Corporation. But there was still a progressive deterioration of wool prices because security still had not been introduced through a minimum floor price scheme- something for which the Labor Party had been fighting for years and years in Opposition. But the Government then acted, and it acted responsibly. It empowered the Australian Wool Corporation to operate a minimum floor price scheme for wool equivalent to 250c per kilogram for clean 2 1 micron wool sold during the 1974-75 season. It did for the wool industry what the previous Liberal-Country Party Government had refused to do in 23 years. In 23 years the previous Government did nothing about it. This Government introduced a floor price scheme of that magnitude. What were the results? It stabilised the wool industry; it served notice on the cartels and combines that Australian wool would not be given away at low prices; and it served notice on the main importing countries that they would have to pay a fair price for our wool. This is what this Government did, in marked contrast to the apathy and the refusal to make decisions of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. 
Above all, this Government gave an insurance policy to the wool industry, particularly to the small resident, bona fide producer. It guaranteed his income. It gave security to the industry as a whole until the market forces were brought into some semblance of equilibrium. This cost the Government something. The Government provided loans totalling $3 80m to be made available to the Australian Wool Corporation in the operation of the floor price scheme. The industry itself, of course, will contribute a levy of 5 per cent of the value of shorn wool during the 1974- 75 season. This market support fund is available to meet the losses which may result from the floor price activity. But what was the overall result? The floor price mechanism and orderly marketing proved successful. The shuddering, uncertain market of 1974 and the early period of 1975 came to a grinding halt. The firming of the market in the last month has shown the success of the reserve price scheme of 250c per kilogram. This is what the Labor Government has done. Yet the Opposition has the temerity to make allegations that we have not made decisions. I ask honourable members opposite to look back on their record during the 23 years they were in government. 
The floor price scheme which underpins the wool industry, coupled with the newly restructured Austraiian Wool Corporation, is the most progressive policy that has ever been available to the Austraiian wool industry. I emphasise that the scheme was established by a Labor Government. It was established by a Labor Government and refused by a Liberal-Country Party Government. This Government's policy of a minimum floor price scheme for the 1974-75 season will continue on the present basis of 250c per kilogram. 
I made it clear in the House that there were precedents which had to be followed. I said that the matter was under consideration and that when it was finalised a statement would be made by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  I have in front of me a copy of the statement which the Minister for Agriculture has made today, giving details of the floor price for the 1 975- 76 season. The statement reads: 
The Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Ken  Wriedt, announced today that the Australian Government would extend the minimum reserve price arrangements for wool, introduced during the present season, to the 1975-76 season. He said that the Australian Wool Corporation will be authorised to continue operating a minimum floor price equivalent to 250c per kilogram clean for 2 1 micron wool at auctions during the coming season. 
That statement was made by the Minister for Agriculture in the normal and correct way. I cannot emphasise too much the importance of orderly marketing in agriculture. Ever since I became a member of this House I have argued for orderly marketing, whether it be for wool, sugar, wheat, apples and pears, dried vine fruits or tobacco. I believe that stabilisation schemes are part and parcel of Australian primary industry, particularly in the export areas. This is what this Government believes, as shown by its record with respect to wool, its record with respect to sugar in the negotiation of bilateral agreements overseas when the International Sugar Agreement collapsed, and its policies with respect to apples and pears, dried vine fruits and other industries. In marked contrast, of course, we can see the lack of orderly marketing in the beef industry. All of us in Government and in Opposition have to work together to try to get orderly marketing into the beef industry, as has been achieved in the wool industry and other primary industries. 
In conclusion, let me say that allegations have been made time and time again that the Government is not assisting rural industries. I repeat what was stated by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in this House last week and emphasised by me, namely, that $950m will be made available to industry and, out of that figure, $670m will be made available to primary industry, of which $380m will be made available to the wool industry. Could anybody say that the Australian Government is not helping primary industry or not helping the wool industry? I repeat the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  today: The Labor Government has done more for the wool industry in 2 years than the previous Liberal-Country Party Government did in 23 years. The facts are there for all to see. All the whingeing and whining of the National Country Party will not hide its deplorable record when it was in government, a deplorable record of 23 years of indecision culminating in its getting tossed out of office. Now it is sour because the Labor Government makes positive decisions and has made more positive decisions for the benefit and welfare of the wool industry in 2 years than the Country Party-dominated coalition government did in 23 years. 
-This is the second question I have been asked this week on potatoes. The first one was asked by the honourable member for Casey who, as I said, represents one of the best potato growing areas in Australia, Kinglake. I am aware that the honourable member for Ballaarat also represents one of the biggest potato producing areas in Australia. I do not know whether it is the best, nevertheless it is a big one. As regards the specific question, there has been a lot of concern with respect to the imports of frozen potato products- French fries, as I think they are called- in recent years. Prior to 1973-74 the average amount imported was about 20 tons a year, which has increased dramatically over recent years to more than 15 000 tons. As I explained the other day, one of the reasons for this was the shortage of potato products in Australia and the high prices being asked. Imports were necessary to bring down the price of potatoes and also to fill the gap between supply and demand. I am pleased to say as far as potato growers are concerned that the imports of potatoes have dropped dramatically in recent months. In fact they are running now at about only 270 tons a month compared with up to almost 3000 tons a month say 12 or 8 months ago. 
A study group is inquiring into the imports of various commodities to see whether effective forecasting can be carried out. I do not know whether potato imports are included. As regards imports hurting the industry, as I said recently to the honourable member for Casey the Government has been looking at whether these products have been dumped. I think a statement was made yesterday by the Attorney-General that we have no evidence of potatoes being dumped. I will certainly refer the question as to whether there has been any manipulation by importers to the relevant Ministers, the Attorney-General and 
Minister for Police and Customs, and the Minister for Agriculture, for expert advice and I shall let the honourable member know the position. 
I am happy to say that progress reports are flowing in regularly from State governments and local authorities with respect to water conservation, beef road projects and the Regional Employment Development scheme. The only complaint that I have received has been with respect to the irresponsible statement made by the Leader of the National Country Party last night on national television. I read his words: 
I was told yesterday, probably the people of Mackay in Queensland may not like this, that $500,000 was given to that town to plant 14 000 trees- they cannot find the people in the town for the job so they fly in 10 people only to find that it was not the right time to plant the trees. 
Let me assure the Leader of the National Country Party that the people of Mackay will not like his statement. They deeply resent it. They would think that the Leader of the National Country Party was a fool to make such a statement. The statement is maliciously untrue. It is a deliberate fabrication by  Mr Anthony.  It is an insult - 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for the months of March and April 1975. 
by leave- I should like to thank the  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  and the members of the Committee for the work that they did in formulating their conclusions with respect to this most important inquiry. As the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said, it is unlikely that there would have been any major variations from the initial recommendations. But I think it was only fair that, in view of the devastation that occurred in Darwin on Christmas Day and the disruption to that city as a result of the cyclone, plus the very serious administrative problems that have arisen and are even more likely to arise in the future, the Committee should have had another look at their conclusions in the light of the new evidence available to it. I also agree that if constitutional reform is to progress in the Northern Territory there has to be co-ordination and co-operation between the Australian Government, the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the members of the Darwin City Corporation and, of course, the people of the Northern Territory themselves. All that continuous sniping at the Government by people in various forms simply on political grounds does is cause confusion in Darwin, particularly at present I have made it clear that I am prepared to cooperate with the Legislative Assembly and the Darwin City Corporation, which now has a new mayor and a new council. This does not mean to say that I did not get on with the previous council. I did. Although the previous mayor - 
I got on a lot better with those people than the honourable member ever would. Alderman Tiger Brennan and I have known each other for probably 25 years. We have had our differences, but I always had respect for him for the way he put forward his views in support of the Northern Territory. The principal comment I wish to make is that if the Northern Territory is to proceed to constitutional reform it has to be done in a co-operative, coordinated and calm manner. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924-1973 to change the powers and membership of the Australian Dairy Produce Board as part of the Government's program to provide progressively more effective regulatory and marketing services to Australian primary industries. The changes proposed follow a review of the present legislation in the course of which representative organisations of producers and manufacturers have been consulted at every stage. The changes have been agreed at meetings with the major dairy industry organisations. 
Since the Board was last reconstituted in 1947 there have been many changes in the structure of the dairy industry at the farm and the factory level. The industry is also presently faced with a number of unresolved issues which will influence its future. These include developments in relation to the dairy industry equalisation arrangements and the potential consequences of the recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission which is inquiring into the type of assistance required for the industry after 1 July 1976. The Government considers that it will be a useful move to strengthen the capability of the Australian Dairy Produce Board to accord more closely with the circumstances of 1975 and beyond. The circumstances facing the Australian dairy industry are now very different since the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community in February 1973. Prior to this the United Kingdom was the principal market for the disposal of surplus Austraiian dairy production. 
The effects have been two-fold. First the EEC which has formed itself into a powerful bloc is virtually closed as a market for our dairy products and is strongly competitive in other markets. Second, to dispose of product at premium prices the Corporation must be able to find new markets and be competitive in existing markets. Greater accent will need to be placed on collective action to co-ordinate marketing activities and improve marketing efficiency in order to achieve the maximum benefits for dairy farmers, manufacturers and distributors and exporters. The additional powers proposed will strengthen the Corporation's regulatory responsibilities and provide it with more flexibility in its financial and trading operations to permit this. 
I now turn to the details of the Bill. The Australian Dairy Produce Board will be renamed the Australian Dairy Corporation and will consist of 1 1 members, namely, an independent  Chairman,  3 members to represent dairy farmers, 3 members to represent manufacturers, 2 members with special qualifications, one employee representative and one government representative. All the members of the Corporation will be appointed by the Minister for Agriculture. The members to represent dairy farmers and manufacturers will be selected from panels of names submitted by the appropriate dairy industry bodies. The 2 members with special qualifications will be appointed after consultation with the appropriate industry bodies. These members will be people specially qualified for appointment by reason of their experience and expertise in marketing generally, or in the marketing of dairy produce, or by reason of other experience in commerce, finance, economics, science or industry matters. The position of  Chairman  will be of major importance to the operation of the Corporation. The qualities demanded will be a capacity for leadership and broad commercial experience consistent with the range of functions the Corporation has to perform including the guidance and determination of marketing policy. 
The Bill provides that the 3 dairy farmer representatives, the 3 manufacturer representatives and the 2 members with special qualifications will retire by rotation. This will be achieved by making one of the initial appointments in each category for a term of 2 years and the other appointments for a term of 3 years. In this way retirement will be staggered and will thus ensure a nucleus of experienced members at all times. All subsequent appointments will be for a period of 3 years. Other pan-time members will hold office for 3 years. The changes proposed are designed to achieve a balanced membership which will enhance the Corporation's ability to perform its functions in a modern marketing environment. At meetings with industry representatives there has been general agreement that the new membership structure meets this objective and that there is satisfactory scope for bringing to the Corporation representation of all important industry interests. 
The opportunity has been taken to set out the functions of the Corporation in clause 6 ( 13) of the Bill on the lines followed in legislation for other comparable statutory bodies. The existing powers are to be assumed by the Corporation with additions in 3 main areas where it is considered that a change would benefit the industry and improve the Corporation's operations. First, the Corporation's regulatory functions will be strengthened by providing it with specific power after consultation with appropriate industry bodies to determine the quantity of dairy produce which will be exported to a particular country or countries in the course of the season. The purpose of this provision- clause 6 ( 13B) of the Bill- is to help ensure that adequate supplies are maintained for domestic consumption and to enable the Corporation to meet specific overseas obligations particularly by way of long term supply arrangements which could become an increasingly important element in the industry's export marketing arrangements. Second, under clause 7 the Corporation will have monopoly trading power for specific export markets by regulation after consultation with the industry. Currently the Board has this power for the United Kingdom and by voluntary industry arrangement for cheese to Japan. The purpose of the provision which has wide industry support would be to meet special circumstances where, for example, development of a fragmented marketing approach would be harmful to the Australian industry or where new market development was not attractive to private traders because of special commercial difficulties. 
The third area relates to the borrowing powers of the Corporation which presently restrict advances under Austraiian Government guarantee to dairy produce intended for export. The principal purpose of the advance arrangements is to facilitate payments to producers pending the sale of their produce. Over the years they have formed an integral part of the industry's arrangements to maintain price stability. Clauses 8 and 10(23) extend the present borrowing powers to permit advances to be used to finance winter stocks by allowing product subject to Corporation advances to be withdrawn for the local market. This provision will assist the industry with its special seasonal production problems where the burden of maintaining substantial domestic stocks is falling increasingly on a small number of manufacturers in Victoria and Tasmania. In addition clause 10 (23) will enable the Corporation to borrow with the approval of the Treasurer from commercial lending institutions against secured assets. This will enable the Corporation to finance sales or stock holdings beyond the seasonal limit applying to the advances made by the Corporation from the Reserve Bank funds. 
The main source of finance for the operation of the present Board is obtained from a levy on butter fat used in the production of relevant dairy produce. However, the maximum levy rate for the last 2 years has been insufficient to cover the Board's costs and it has relied on commission from sales to cover its expenditure. At the request of the industry a review was undertaken of the basis and amount of the levy to provide a more equitable and effective form of financing. I intend to introduce legislation as soon as possible to provide for changes agreed with the industry which will enable the Corporation to obtain the necessary finance for its operations without relying on other measures. 
I believe that the proposals embodied in this Bill give the Australian Dairy Corporation more flexibility in its financial arrangements and trading operations and place greater emphasis on the experience and skills needed by Corporation members to carry out their functions than was possible under the structure of the present Board. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make consequential technical amendments to the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Act 1958-1973 that have been made necessary by the amendments to the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924-1973 as announced in my .second reading speech on the Dairy Produce Bill 1975. The Bill provides that moneys in the Sales Promotion Fund are moneys of the Austraiian Dairy Corporation and also lays down the purpose for which the moneys may be expended from the Fund. There are no other changes. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 26 of the Tobacco Marketing Act 1965-1973, 1 present the ninth annual report and financial statements of the Australian Tobacco Board for the year ended 31 December 1974, together with the report of the Auditor-General thereon. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The reason for the amendment is quite clear. The Bill before the Committee is a Bill to establish a Pig Meat Promotion Trust Account and for purposes connected therewith. Under the definitions clause, 'Promotion Account', means the Pig Meat Promotion Trust Account. Honourable members will notice in paragraph (a) of subclause 6 ( 1) the words 'with the approval of the Minister, for the purpose of promotion' and in sub-clause (3) the words 'The Minister shall not exercise his power to approve the expenditure of moneys from the Research Account for the purposes referred to in paragraph 1(a)'- the paragraph to which I have just referred- 'except in accordance with recommendations of the Committee'. It is clear that the word 'Research' should be 'Promotion'. That is quite consistent. I do not know just how the word got there, but that does not matter. One can see from the definitions clause, clause 3, and from sub-clause 6(1), which deals with promotion, that in subclause (3) the word 'Research' should be 'Promotion', because under the existing legislation the levy is for research and not promotion and this Bill is establishing funds to provide for promotion. Therefore, the word in sub-clause 6 (3) should be 'Promotion'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
As stated in the Parliament on 28 April 1966 (Hansard pages 1274-5), the report has never officially been made available to honourable members. After the report was printed in mid-1965, several copies were available in the Parliamentary Library. However, the copies were withdrawn in April 1966 at the direction of the then Minister for National Development 
I have arranged for copies of the report to be made available in the Parliamentary Library for the convenience of honourable members. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) Under the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1968-73 the Australian Wheat Board was not required to present an annual report to Parliament. It does, however, publish an annual report in which it provides a financial statement on each season 's pool as it is finalised. It should be mentioned that, because wheat was sold on credit terms of up to three years, there has been considerable delay in finalising pools from that of 1969-70. Consequently, the latest published accounts relate to the 1968-69 pool. 
Legislation introduced last year by this Government to implement a wheat industry stabilisation plan commencing with the 1974-75 season requires the Australian Wheat Board to prepare for presentation to the Parliament a report of its operations during the year ended 30 November, together with financial statements in such form as the Treasurer approves. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The Australian Wheat Board is given sole responsibility under Federal and complementary State legislation for the marketing of Australia's wheat crop. The Board is an independent trading organisation operating on commercial basis. In line with normal commercial practice, and often at the request of the buyer, the Board does not make public the prices at which its sales are made. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) I am not aware of any Queensland action to establish a beef stabilisation scheme. 
I agree that the producer is entitled to a price which covers his cost and a reasonable profit margin. Wide price swings as experienced in the last few years ultimately are to the detriment of both producers and consumers of beef. However, beef price swings have principally resulted from overseas market forces and the action of foreign governments in restricting world trade in beef- factors over which the Australian Government has no control. 
The Australian Government has made and continues to make strenous efforts, however, to influence actions of foreign governments to improve market access of foreign governments (o improve market access for exports of meat from Australia. 
The Australian Government announced on 22 April proposals for a joint scheme with the States to provide further assistance to beef producers. 
Under the Scheme, which has now been agreed to by the States, the Australian Government will match the amount of money already committed by the States for carry-on finance to beef producers. The funds will be provided to eligible producers at a concessional rate of interest, 4 per cent, with no capital repayments for 12 months and with interest charges for the first 12 months capitalised. In Queensland the interest rate will be 3V4 per cent, based on 4 per cent Australian Government funds and 2V4 per cent interest on Queensland funds. 
Legislation to appropriate $ 19.6m for this scheme was introduced on 21 May 1975 and those funds will be additional to the $20m provided last December to augment Development Bank lending to beef producers. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
178,1 10 kilograms of dried apricots were imported for the nine months period ended 31 March 1975. This compares with 19,664 kilograms imported in the full year 1973-74. The main reason for the increased level of imports in the current financial year has been due to the small domestic crop. 
178 kilograms originated from mainland China in the nine months ended 3 1 March 1975. 
China National Cereals Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation, 82 Tung An Men Street, Peking. 
In the early 1920s the rate of duty was 4 pence per pound. This was increased to 6 pence per pound plus 10 per cent primage in 1929. 
Apart from the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut in 1973 the rates of duty remained virtually unchanged since 1929. 
Yes. The wholesale price is around $2.80 per kilogram ($1.30 per pound). 
If the industry considers that it is being damaged or is threatened with damage from imports it is always open to the industry to apply to the Government for a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission, or if the situation is urgent, to the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
Before a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission can be considered the industry or a substantial proportion of the industry would need to demonstrate a prima facie case of damage or the threat of damage from import competition. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Sperm whaling began in Australia in 1955. The numbers of each sex taken in each year to 1974 are as follows: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Yes. 
Yes, because the International Whaling Commission Scientific Committee consisting of the world 's leading scientists on whale population dynamics from 11 countries and the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, recommended a quota of 7000 minke whales. 
Yes, see (b) above. 
There is a scientific basis to the setting of the minke and other quotas, see (lb) above.  Dr Lee  Talbot is not the  Chairman  of the IWC Scientific Committee. Catch quotas are decided by Commissioners voting at the plenary sessions of the IWC. 
Privately Owned Motor Vehicles Used on Government Business  (Question No. 2516) 
by leave- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Some very serious allegations were made against the Government regarding the distribution - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Bill 1975 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I want to comment briefly on only one point that has been raised by, I think, every  speaker  on the Opposition side, and that is the composition of the Australian Dairy Corporation. It has been alleged that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator 
Wriedt) did not want to agree with the industry's proposals relating to the membership of the Corporation. First of all, I think it is necessary to state a few facts on this matter. As to the composition of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, out of a total of 13 members there are 3 producer representatives. Under this legislation the new Corporation will have out of a total of 1 1 members 3 producer representatives. So in fact the proportion of producer representation is much higher under this legislation. It is true that the Minister's initial proposal was that there should be 3 producer representatives and 2 representatives from the manufacturing side of the industry. It is a fact that late last year the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation proposed that there should be 4 producer representatives and 2 representatives from the manufacturing side of the industry. The industry representatives met the Minister on 1 1 March. At that meeting the Federation did not question the Minister's proposal to have 3 producer representatives on the Corporation, but it did strongly support an increase in the number of representatives from the manufacturing side. There was a subsequent meeting with the industries representatives. On 3 April, Federation representatives advised the Minister that the Federation was now seeking a minimum of 4 producer representatives on the Board. So it went on backward and forwardsfour to three, three to two, three to three, four to three, four to two, or take your pick. Various arguments were put forward. 
The important thing was that in subsequent discussions on the number of manufacturers representatives, the Dairy Federation representatives advised that they would be happy with 3 producer representatives, providing that there were also 3 manufacturers representatives, that is, they wanted the number restricted to three. So in actual fact they wanted equal representation with the manufacturing side of the industrythree to three. Industry representatives unanimously accepted the addition of one manufacturers representative to the Minister's initial proposal. The matter was straightened out. This representation was accepted after various discussions and consideration of everyone's viewsthe Minister's views and the industry's views. The Federation came to the unanimous decision that it would accept three and three. 
Following that meeting, the Minister received representations from the State Council of the Queensland Dairymen's Organisation, the Victorian Farmers' Union and the Federation again requesting 4 producer representatives to ensure an adequate and effective representation on the 
Board. So they went back to 4 representatives, after the Federation had unanimously agreed to three. The Minister for Agriculture, in his reply, told the Federation that in his considered view, representation by 3 producers in a total membership of eleven was reasonable compared with the present situation in the Produce Board of three out of thirteen. He also said that there was no disagreement on the need for adequate representation in numbers, although there was always room for difference of opinion as to how many constituted an adequate number. 
Although I was not present at the discussion, there seems to me to be some sort of dissension within the industry. The Federation, on the one hand, agreed unanimously to the number of manufacturers representatives being increased to three and that there would be equal representation of three to three- in other words there would be 6 representatives. The Federation agreed with that. But apparently State organisations had different views. This may be a wrong interpretation on my part, but it would appear that something has happened since the Federation accepted the proposal. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  I think it was, said that the Federation was forced into this position. I do not know whether that is correct or not. I very much doubt it from the advice that I have received. But I believe that the industry has received a fair deal because the Minister has assured the main industry bodies of the dairy industry that he will consult them before the final appointments are made, including the appointment of the  chairman.  In other words, there will be full consultation by the Minister for Agriculture. I wanted to clear that point up because I think it is necessary to state on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture the facts relating to the various meetings between the Minister and the Dairy Federation. It seems to me that agreement was reached on this very important matter but that within the industry itself there was some dissatisfaction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose a levy on bearing areas of apple and pear trees to provide the source of finance for the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. The Corporation, which commenced operations in September 1974, has been financed to the present by the export charge collected under the Apple and Pear Export Charges Act 1938-1973, which was the source of income of the Corporation's predecessor, the Australian Apple and Pear Board. 
When the Bill to establish the Corporation was introduced in the House in November 1973, however, it was made clear that financing through the export charge was an interim measure only. That interim measure was to be replaced by a broader financial base for the Corporation through a levy on all apples and pears, not simply on export fruit, since the activities of the Corporation could be expected to produce benefits for all sectors of the industry. It was indicated at that time that studies were being undertaken, in consultation with the industry, to devise the most practicable method of imposing and collecting a levy on all apples and pears produced and sold. After a detailed investigation, however, it was concluded that a levy on this basis would present great difficulties in the policing of payments. There is a high percentage of fruit disposed of through undocumented or cash sales in some of the major producing States. These sales would lend themselves to easy evasion of the levy and require a disproportionate effort in policing. 
Following consideration of other bases for imposing the levy, including a levy based on the number of bearing trees, the Australian Apple and Pear Growers' Association has recommended that the levy be based on bearing area. Such a basis would not militate against the introduction of improved husbandry techniques, such as the closer planting of trees, which are designed for more efficient production and cost savings. The Association's recommendation has, however, been opposed by the Queensland sector of the industry on the ground that a levy on this basis will bear disproportionately on them because of the relatively low yields of fruit per hectare in that State. The Government nevertheless accepts the Association's view that an areabased levy is the most desirable method, and proposes to meet the circumstances of individual growers in Queensland or elsewhere who experience, on the average, low yields per hectare by a system of partial remissions where individuals can demonstrate the need for such a remission. This system of remission will also be applied in cases where a grower can demonstrate that he has suffered significant crop damage in a particular year through natural disaster. 
I turn now to the provisions of the Bill. The Bill imposes a levy at a rate not exceeding $3 for every 0. 1 hectare of land on which productive trees are growing. Productive trees are defined as apple trees not less than 5 years old and pear trees not less than 8 years old. The area of land subject to the levy is calculated by multiplying the number of such trees planted in a regular fashion in orchard plots by the distance between trees in a row and by the distance between rows. The area of productive land for individual trees not planted in this fashion will be calculated on the basis of 0.004 hectare per tree. In calculating leviable area beyond 0.5 hectare any fraction of 0.1 hectare is to be treated as 0.1 hectare (see Clause 6 (3) of the Bill). Liability to pay the levy rests with the holder of the land, that is, the person in possession of the land at 1 January in any year. 
The rninimum area which will attract the levy is 0.1 hectare or land on which more than 25 productive trees are growing, but once this liability has been established the minimum amount of levy payable will be the amount applicable to 0.5 hectare. The reason for this minimum levy is the high relative cost of collecting and checking the levy from small areas. It is also necessary to take into account the cost which would be incurred by the Corporation in servicing growers of these small allotments with apple and pear publicity material, pricing information, market reports and other material. Since such growers will benefit from the activities of the Corporation it is equitable that they should contribute a reasonable amount towards its finances. 
As I indicated earlier, the Bill is designed to give a firm financial base to the Corporation, which in the short time since its establishment has shown vigour and determination in its approach to the formidable problems of this industry. The Corporation has embarked on a far reaching program of export market diversification, product research, marketing surveys and intensified domestic promotion. It is imperative, however, that its financial position be strengthened if this initial impetus is to be maintained. 
I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the machinery for collection of the apple and pear levy which is the subject of the Apple and Pear Levy BUI that I have just introduced. The Bill provides for payment of an amount of the levy not later than 3 1 July in any year, subject to variation that may be made by regulations. Regulations will be necessary for example to establish an appropriate payment date for the 1975 year. It is also intended that the regulations will permit payment of the annual levy in two equal instalments throughout the year at the option of the levy payer. 
Clause 5 of the Bill is designed to allow the deduction from the amount of levy payable by growers who send pears to a cannery of an amount which would represent the portion of levy referable to those pears. The formula for calculating the amount of the deduction is set out in sub-clause (1) of clause 5 of the Bill. Subclause (2) of this clause also provides for a deduction in respect of any charge in the first year of the levy which may have been paid on export apples and pears under the Apple and Pear Export Charges Act 1938-1973. The remission clause of the Bill, clause 6, is designed to meet the circumstances to which I have already referred in my speech on the Apple and Pear Levy Bill. 
The Bill provides penalties for non-payment of levy by the due date with a power to remit such penalties in appropriate circumstances, and also provides for recovery of amounts of levy or penalty due. Clause 9 of the Bill deals with the powers of an authorized person to enter premises to exercise his functions of search, examination and measurement in relation to what might be leviable land. The authorized person may enter with the consent of the occupier or may apply to a Justice of the Peace for a warrant authorizing entry. The Bill also provides for a penalty for failure or neglect to comply with the requirements of the regulations relating to the submitting of returns and information. Detailed administrative procedures relating to collection of the levy and the submission of the requisite returns and information will be set out in regulations under the Act. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Act 1973 to take account of changes in the income source of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, which will be brought into effect by the Apple and Pear Levy Bill and the Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bill, which have just been introduced. The Bill also repeals the Apple and Pear Export Charges Act 1938-1973 as from the date that the Apple and Pear Levy Act 1975 comes into operation. Since under the new levy revenue will flow to the Corporation on a calendar year basis, rather than a financial year, the Bill provides for amendment of the principal Act to permit the annual report and financial statements of the Corporation to be submitted on such a basis. 
The Bill also amends the principal Act to extend the permit power to borrow in the exercise of any of its powers under the Act. This is presently confined to borrowing only for the exercise of its power to engage in trade. It has become evident that the Corporation will need to have a greater flexibility in respect of the purposes for which it may borrow, particularly in the initiatory period of the new levy. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No information is held of the amounts of moneys held by the Salvation Army, Australian Red Cross Society, St Vincent de Paul Society and major voluntary organisations for the relief and assistance of persons affected by the Darwin cyclone. 
Steps will be taken to obtain information as to the amounts of money held by the above organisations. 
No funds are held by the Australian Government but the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund, which is an organisation on which the Australian Government is represented, has received $6,395,654 in donations for use to assist the victims of the Darwin cyclone. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1), (2), (3), The Australian Agricultural Council, at its 91st meeting on 14February 1975, asked the Standing Committee on Agriculture to arrange for consideration to be given to the possibility of providing adjustment assistance to the pig industry and the terms and conditions on which such assistance should be provided and that a report on these matters be presented for the Agricultural Council 's consideration at its next meeting on 4 and 5 August 1 975. 
McKinsey Report: Implementation of Recommendations (Question No. 2546) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) AH of the major recommendations in the McKinsey report have been implemented or are in the process of implementation. 
The only significant recommendation not implemented concerns the IWS Board Committee. The recommendation that additional committee members be appointed from outside the grower countries constituting the IWS and from outside the wool industry was not accepted by the Board of the IWS. 
However, the Board has implemented procedures under which members of the Board serving on the Committee will specialise in particular aspects such as marketing plans, budget and long range planning. 
The Board believes this change has already increased the effectiveness of the Board 's overall policy direction. 
I also refer the honourable member to the answer given to Question No. 1331 on 5 December 1974 (pages 4774-4775 of Hansard). 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) A total of 49 applications for advances were received by the Australian Wool Corporation during the period in question. Of these, 3 were subsequently withdrawn. 
A total of 46 advances were approved, totalling $354,000. 
The Minister for Agriculture has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's substantive questions: 
At present there appear to be reasonably good prospects for the disposal of rapeseed on the domestic market, which normally absorbs about twice as much edible vegetable oil as can be obtained from locally grown seed. Aus.tralian prices for rapeseed and other oilseeds are established having regard to price levels prevailing on the world market. World rapeseed prices have fallen from the very high level of $326 per tonne (Canadian No. 1, Winnipeg Exchange) in October, 1 974 to the current level of about $ 184 per tonne. 
The major Australian crusher has not yet offered growers a guaranteed minimum price for the 1975 rapeseed crop because of a continuing element of instability in world price levels. However, current indications are that growers might anticipate a price of around $ 1 50 per tonne, delivered capital city, which compares with the guaranteed minimum $165 per tonne offered to growers in 1 974. 
Very high prices for Unseed in 1974 encouraged the growing of a large Australian crop, some of which was exported. Current market trends indicate that domestic prices for the 1 975 crop may be in the vicinity of $ 1 30 per tonne compared with a guaranteed minimum provided by crushers of $ 185 in 1974. lit view of the reduced price incentive, and even given normal seasonal conditions, production in 1975 may not reach the level achieved last year. In these circumstances growers should have little difficulty in marketing their 1975 crop to Australian crushers. In the event that production does exceed domestic demand, disposal of the surplus at satisfactory prices on world markets may be difficult if world demand and prices continue to decline. 
Prices for rapeseed and.linseed will probably be lower this year and guaranteed prices have not been established by crushers at this stage. However, prices for alternative crops such as wheat and barley have also declined. Accordingly, production of rapeseed and Unseed should continue to be a comparatively attractive enterprise for established growers. 
Safflower seed is in considerable demand on the domestic market and I am advised that contracts for the coming season are available to growers at prices of around $150 per tonne (delivered to capital city basis). 
As the summer growing oilseeds such as sunflower and soyabeans are not planted until late this year with harvesting in 1976 a reliable assessment of market prospects for these crops cannot be made at present. 
Market prices for all oilseeds have declined recently in response to an increase in the supply of some vegetable oils and a decline in demand for both oils and meals. Future prices will also be influenced by the progress of crops in major producing countries particularly in North America, and, in the case of soya beans, by any upturn in the livestock industry which is the major outlet for high protein meals. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Stocks of wool held by the Australian Wool Corporation on the dates in question and the location of these stocks were as follows: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Cattle Tick Control Commission on 'Cattle Tick in Australia'. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Chicken Meat Research Act 1969 I present the fifth annual report of the Australian Chicken 
Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present the resolution of the ninety-second meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council held in Melbourne on 28 April 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Census and Statistics advises the estimated population of the Northern Territory immediately prior to the partial evacuation of Darwin after Christmas 1974 was 105 000. 
The Bureau estimates the proportion of this number that were Aborigines was 25 per cent. 
The total number of police in the Northern Territory on 24 December 1974 was 389 none of whom were Aborigines. However, since that date seven Aborigines have been employed and trained as police liaison assistants, and they commenced duty at four of the major population centres, on 3 March 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Unlike the A.C.T. the Northern Territory currently has no statutory controls over egg production and marketing. Darwin egg producers, however, are operating under a voluntary scheme of orderly marketing and production controls based on the demand of the Darwin market. 
Over recent months the matters of statutory production controls and orderly marketing of eggs have received considerable attention by my Department and Northern Territory producers. Information to assist them has been sought and received from state departments of Agriculture, Egg Marketing Boards and other interstate egg industry people. Discussions are continuing. 
Pipeline from Cooper Basin to Palm Valley  (Question No. 2532) 
-The honourable member for the Northern Territory will know that the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory tabled its first report on this matter before last Christmas. Then followed the tragic cyclone, cyclone Tracy. In consultation with the Majority Leader and other members of the Legislative Assembly it was decided that the Committee should again look at the constitutional reform problems in the Northern Territory and recommend again if necessary. It did this. Since that has happened the relevant Ministers and thendepartments have been actively engaged in studying the reports and the ramifications of the recommendations. I must point out that I am not the only Minister concerned with the Northern Territory. There are probably at least ten other Ministers with very important functions in the Northern Territory. 
I have been in consultation with the Prime Minister on this matter. A high level interdepartmental committee, again working in conjunction with the Northern Territory, has studied it and has made a report. Certain recommendations will be going to the Cabinet very shortly on this matter. In fact, most of those recommendations encompass the matters that the honourable member has raised, that is, the progressive handing over of particular local functions in the Northern Territory to Executive Members of the fully elected Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. All of those matters are under consideration. I am in close consultation with  Dr Letts  and the former  Speaker  of the Legislative Assembly,  Mr Kilgariff,  who is now the Executive Member for Finance in the Northern Territory. It is the Government's wish, as the honourable member knows from the platform of the Australian Labor Party, to make progress on this subject, and this matter is before the Government. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Prior to January 1974 there were no scheduled patrols off the north-west coast of Western Australia. Surveillance of the area was undertaken on an ad hoc basis by defence units on passage through north-west waters on defence tasks. 
From January 1974 to March 1975 scheduled patrolling of the area consisted of one RAN and one RAAF patrol per month. 
In March 1975 the Australian Government assigned air and surface units of the RAAF and RAN to 'Operation Trochus 75 ', especially mounted to deal with intrusions by Indonesian fishermen into waters adjacent to Australia. This commitment involves almost continuous patrols by RAN vessels with daily flights by Naval 'Tracker' aircraft. The RAAF provides fortnightly long-range patrols of distant waters. 
and (3) Fishing vessels from Indonesia and other foreign countries reported sighted operating illegally in waters off the north-west coast are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Trust Deed under which the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Fund is set up requires the  Chairman  of the Trust to report each month in writing to Parliament, the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and the Corporation of the City of Darwin. 
The March/April Reports have already been submitted, the May Report is being prepared for printing and the June Report has been written. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
4 784 600 
(a) 171 
235 165 officially described and recorded as Merino wethers . In addition, a large but unknown percentage of sheep in shipments officially described and recorded as 'mixed wethers ' would have been merino wethers. 
3449 
493 

For the information of honourable members I present the report on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for May 1975. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question 2586 in the House of Representatives on 5 June 1 975. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes; to support a resolution adopted by the Commission in 1973 to reduce the quota for fin whales from 450 to zero over a three year period. 
The Soviet Commissioner did not speak to this matter in the plenary session. (0 Yes; see (d) 
Yes; see (d) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
Yes. The Randall report on wool was published by the Australian Government Publishing Service in August 1972 under the title 'Report on the Australian Wool Industry 1971-72'. Its release was announced on 15 August 1972 by the then Minister for Primary Industry. 
Not applicable. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following the answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
In April 1972, the Australian Wool Industry Conference, a non-Government organisation, presented to the Government of the day a paper entitled 'Estimates of Government Financial Support for the Wool Industry'. This paper set down estimates of Government financial support considered necessary to implement the proposals which were submitted to the Government by the Conference in March 1972. 
Apparently the AWIC cost estimates were not released publicly. However, they were given detailed consideration along with the AWIC submission by the Randall Committee. That Committee's Report was made publicly available- see answer to Question No. 2282. 
Refer to answer to (3) above. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
I understand from my Department that a number of feasibility studies for the Yennora Wool Centre were undertaken. It would appear that the centrally important studies leading to decisions to undertake the project were commissioned by two wool selling brokers, who had initiated the proposal, and by the Australian Wool Board. 
These studies were carried out in 1970 and apparently were not made public by the government of the day; which, in any event, had not commissioned them. 
See answer to (3) above. 
-The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The operations of private woolbuyers purchasing on farms do not inhibit the Corporation in fulfilling its specific 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions. 
It is a prescribed function of the Australian Wool Corporation, under the Wool Industry Act 1972-1974, to keep under constant review the practice of the buying and selling of wool outside the auction system. 
For this purpose the Corporation has been authorised to obtain appropriate information from firms engaged in the private trading of wool. 
There is no public disclosure of prices at which wool is traded privately, but a study of a wide range of aspects of private trading in wool is presently being carried out by the Corporation. Results obtained to date are preliminary. 
In selling privately the Corporation believes that woolgrowers are principally influenced by the following factors: 
The need to obtain immediate cash 
The desire to avoid selling charges at auction 
The belief that the net price offered is better than at auction. 
Taking into account the differences in selling costs of the alternative systems, growers sometimes sell wool at a disadvantaged privately and sometimes at an advantage, the outcome varying between wool types and between market conditions. 
Some private treaty merchants have bought privately in excess of their needs and resold at auction knowing a particular return is guaranteed by the Corporation's minimum reserve. It is believed that, for this reason, the quantity reoffered at auction in 1974-75 has been greater than in previous seasons. 
The majority of wool disposed of to exporters by private treaty merchants is sold at a discount to ruling auction prices. No concrete evidence has been obtained of the prices at which privately bought wool is sold direct to overseas mills, but it is understood the same relationship applies. 
It has not been considered necessary for the Australian Department of Agriculture to duplicate the investigatory activities of the Corporation in this area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Does not apply. 
Does not apply. 
Financial Assistance by Postmaster-General's  Department  (Question No. 2692) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2789 in the House of Representatives on 5 June 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2789 (Hansard of 5 June 1975, pages 3546-3547). 
-About 6 years ago I made exactly the same speech in this House and probably I produced the same cans. The previous government allowed the importation of canned beef from South America. Concern was expressed by the cattle industry about the possibility of disease being introduced into this country. Canned beef is manufactured under strict hygienic conditions and there should be no possibility of the introduction of foot and mouth disease or other exotic diseases, but some thought there was that possibility. 
-Why does the right honourable member not keep quiet? I will take up the matter with the Minister for Agriculture, as the honourable member suggested to ascertain the facts in regard to what quantity is being introduced into Australia and what pons and conditions are associated with these imports. 
-Nobody will deny that the cattle industry in the Northern Territory, the Kimberleys, Queensland and other parts of 
Australia is in a very serious financial position due, of course, to the collapse of the world markets. However, there is a glimmer of hope on the horizon which we can only hope will become brighter. In the last 48 hours there has been an increase in the United States demand for Australian meat as a result of the lifting of the 'quota' for Australia because of short-falls in the supply of meat to the United States of America from other markets. The Government has acted with respect to the Northern Territory in 2 ways. First, it has given a special loan to the Katherine meatworks to enable that meatworks to open, otherwise there would have been no export meatworks operating in the Northern Territory this season. It has enabled that meatworks to kill record numbers of cattle being turned off. 
The Government has also made available to the cattle industry special loans, as they are being made available in other parts of Australia. I am aware that in some areas of the Northern Territory the cost of getting cattle to market is such that it will not pay the producers to market those cattle. I am aware that in the Alice Springs area there are something like 400 000 cattle. In terms of carrying capacity this is considered most dangerous. The Australian Agricultural Council is meeting, I understand, tomorrow to consider various types of incentives or a floor price scheme. As regards the Industries Assistance Commission reports, this is a matter for the Government to act and to make decisions upon. I have written to the Prime Minister with respect to one aspect of the problem with a suggestion which has been put forward by the cattle industry and other industries in the north; that is, averaging provisions with respect to the income tax ceiling of $16,000. At this time that proposal would not affect the cattle industry but it has done so in the past. 
-As to tuberculosis and brucellosis, the Government is more than doing its part and has provided increased funds in this Budget. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Northern Australia, Northern Territory Division, administers several programs which enable individual groups of people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for specific purposes. These programs fall into six distinct groups: 
.  Assistance to Northern Territory Show Societies. 
Commercial and Industrial Grants 
Cultural and General Welfare Services 
Local Government 
Grant to Assist Crocodile Survey 
Grants to the Northern Territory Housing Commission. 
Outlined below is a detailed summary relating to each group. Assistance to Northern Territory Show Societies: 
) and (2) Assistance to Agricultural and Show Societies in the Northern Territory. 
Capital assistance is restricted to buildings and facilities on Show Grounds. It is to encourage greater participation by pastoralists and agriculturalists in the annual district shows with a view to encouraging improvements in stock and agriculture productivity generally. 
The Societies have to demonstrate an active and progressive role and to have raised funds for show ground improvements through the community and through admission charges. 
The program commenced in the 1950s. 
Funds are provided by administrative action under existing policy. There is no legislation involved. 
The policy of assistance is circulated among all show societies. 
Two applications for grants under the assistance scheme have been received each year for the last 3 years. The applications came from the Adelaide River and Katherine show societies. Grants were given in both cases. 
Applications for grants are examined by specialist officers who are responsible for encouraging increased agricultural and pastoral productivity in the Northern Territory. The questions of real need and the likely prospects for the district are also taken into account. 
10) In the last three years all applications for grants have been met. 
) No grants are made to individuals. 
12) and (13) Not applicable. 
Yes. 
The show societies are required to provide audited statements of the manner in which grants are expended and the facilities built with the grant are physically examined during erection. The facilities built must be for a public purpose. 
1972-73-$10,000 
1973- 74-$ 16,000 
1974- 75-$8,000. 
1 7) and ( 1 8) Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Prime Minister in his answer to question No. 2586, Hansard, page 3545 of 5 June 1975. 
Australia's Participation In SEATO  (Question No. 2711) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 2789, Hansard, page 3546, of 5 June 1975. 
CSIRO Computer Network  (Question No. 2836) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Prime Minister in his answer to Question No. 2386 in  Hansard of 5  June 1975 (page 3545). 
Financial Assistance by Department of Services and Property  (Question No. 2767)  Mr Ruddock  asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
With reference to question No. 2682 of the Member for La Trobe, what has been the cost to the Government of the programs detailed in part ( 1 ) of the question during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, and during 1974-75 to date. 
What organisations have received such grants during the years mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Does not apply. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is a fact that a committee of Ministers has been set up to consider policy matters with respect to Darwin. As honourable members will appreciate very large sums of money are involved in the reconstruction of Darwin. In the last Budget approximately $100m was allocated for works concerned with the immediate reconstruction. There are a large number of policy issues relating to Darwin such as priorities with respect to housing accommodation and the allocation of resources. All of these have to be considered by the Ministers concerned with the policy aspects of Darwin. 
The honourable member mentioned the Minister for Housing and Construction. As he would know, the Department of Housing and Construction is an agent of the departments in the Northern Territory concerned with Darwin. But the policy aspects of construction and reconstruction requirements and housing accommodation are the responsibility of the departments or Ministers directly concerned with the policy aspects of Darwin. With regard to the joint committee, this matter is under consideration and has been for some time. Honourable members will appreciate that a large number of departments are involved in Darwin. A significant number of Ministers with portfolios concerning Darwin and involving not only local matters but national matters such as Aboriginal affairs, health and education also are involved. All these subjects are under consideration. There has been no breach of faith between myself and the majority Leader or any other person in Darwin. 
Timor is not normally regarded as a country in the foot and mouth disease category as there have not been any outbreaks of foot and mouth disease in Timor for a number of years. Nevertheless, there is always the possibility, which is recognised by the Australian Government and the various State authorities in Western Australia and Queensland, of some animal product or equivalent which could contain some of the bacteria of exotic diseases entering northern Australia through being brought in by ships or by people. 
Very strict quarantine measures have been taken with respect to the refugees from Timor. No animals have been brought in. All animal products that have been found have, of course, been destroyed. On the first ship which came in there were 3 parrots and a significant quantity of foodstuffs including animal products. Foodstuffs were burnt and buried. All of the refugees are searched very thoroughly in respect of anything that they may be carrying. Anything that is suspect- particularly animal products or associated products- is destroyed. Approximately 4 to 5 tons of foodstuffs have been destroyed. 
The quarantine officers have been very alert to the possibility of exotic diseases being introduced into Australia. In accordance with the procedures laid down by the various veterinary conferences, eradication measures would be taken immediately in the remote event that any diseases were introduced. I can assure the House that this matter is being treated with great seriousness because there is always the possibility of some exotic disease being brought into Australia via our northern shores. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Dairying Research Act 1972 I present the annual report of the Dairying Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
-The expertise of the honourable member for Kennedy about Darwin is amazing. I understand that he went to Darwin on Boxing Day and has not been there since. Now he is an expert on Darwin. As regards the uncensored minutes, I do not know what these uncensored minutes are. I have never heard of such things as uncensored minutes. The only minutes I get are the minutes that are given to me by the  Chairman  of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, Commissioner Powell. They can all be tabled if the honourable member wants them. There is nothing wrong with them. But what the honourable member requested was the uncensored minutes. I can assure him that I have never heard of such uncensored minutes. As the honourable member made allegations about no houses being constructed, let me give him some of the facts. It is a great pity that he will not go to Darwin. If he went to Darwin he would find out the facts. 
-The honourable member has not been there for 9 months. At present the cleaning up of Darwin is still a continuous process. Over the last few weeks 1 1 000 tons of debris has been collected. That will give honourable members an idea of the severity of the cyclone. 
I shall tell the honourable member about them. If he is patient he will learn something. The Reconstruction Commission has been allocated $275m by this Government since the cyclone hit Darwin in terms of work currently in hand. In the recent Budget $100m was provided. 

 - Mr Chairman, I have been listening to debates on the estimates relating to primary industry and agriculture for 10 years now. Always the same argument is put up by the National Country Party, in particular, about socialistic forces and socialism in agriculture. Rarely do honourable members opposite explain what they mean by it. On the one hand they are arguing for the laissez-faire principles of free enterprise. They say: 'Do not interfere with primary industry. Keep your hands off it. Grow as much as you like, what crop you like, what quantity you like and the market forces of supply and demand will determine the future and the well-being of primary industry'. But I think that every Opposition  speaker  in this debate has asked for government intervention, for the injection of government finance. 
What sort of principles do honourable members opposite have? Do they support socialistic forces in agriculture, which means, of course, government intervention and government control, of marrying production to markets in a realistic way? Or do they in fact mean what they preach in their philosophy of free enterprise, which is to grow any crop you like, grow as much as you like and the forces of supply and demand will determine the price? They do not mean that, and they have never meant it. One of the greatest proponents of control in primary industry was  Sir John  McEwen. He propounded the philosophy of social forces in agriculture, which honourable members opposite are condemning. Let us have a look at some of the primary industries. I remember in this chamber 2 years ago, when beef prices were very high, putting forward the proposition that that was the time when we should have been looking very closely at fixing a domestic price for meat, an equalisation price or a floor price. What did the leaders of the Liberal Party and the Country Party say then? They condemned me. They told the Government to keep its hands right off the cattle industry. Now when prices are at a bedrock level they want the reverse position to apply. That was the time when they should have been looking very closely at introducing an equalisation scheme for the cattle industry. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Kennedy has reminded me of the wool industry. In 1965 honourable members opposite turned down flatly a floor price for wool. 
-The previous Government gave no floor price subsidy; it gave a deficiency payment. It is this Government which gave the 250c a kilo floor price for wool. What did the previous Government give. It turned down the proposal for a floor price for wool. Where would we be in the wheat industry if there were not some controls by quotas on the wheat industry several years ago? Where would we be if we had adopted the philosophy of free enterprise: 'Grow as much wheat as you can"? Why do honourable members opposite not propose to abolish the Australian Wheat Board or the Australian Wool Corporation which purchase Australia's wool and wheat? Members of the National Country Party talk about free enterprise.  (Opposition members interjecting) 

 -Mr Chairman, honourable members opposite remind me of a pack of squealing bandicoots, which are waiting to be stuffed and grilled before being eaten. 
-At least the Northern Territory galah has feathers, which the honourable member does not have. Do not give me any nonsense about socialistic forces. The National Country Party and the Australian Labor Party believe in orderly marketing. Let us take the best practical example that I can think of in Australia today. Compare the most socialised primary industry in Australia, sugar, with the most unsocialised primary industry in Australia today, beef. If the beef industry, the most vulnerable export rural industry in Australia today, had had a floor price scheme, had had a mechanism which would have given it a 2-price scheme such as the sugar industry has, the beef industry would not have got into the bad situation it is in today. Make no mistake about it. I have always supported the beef industry and I shall continue to support it because I think of all the primary industries in Australia the cattle industry, because of its tremendous comparative economic advantage in producing the export product, will come good and in fact will be one of the most prosperous primary industries in the future. But if only it had these so called socialistic forces in it that the wheat industry, the wool industry, the sugar industry, the dried fruits industry and the tobacco industry have we would not have had an industry which today in the northern part of Australia is almost crippled because of its vulnerability in having to rely on the export markets. 
I return to the sugar industry. If the National Country Party had its way, if it adopted its free enterprise principles, it would say to the primary producers: 'Grow as much sugar as you like. Grow any variety you like. Have as many sugar mills as you like. Grow beet sugar in Tasmania and in Victoria. Grow cane sugar in Queensland'. Is the National Country Party saying that? Of course it is not.  (Opposition members interjecting) 
-Listen to the galahs again,  Mr Chairman.  The National Country Party is saying the same as I say. The sugar industry is the best organised primary industry in Australia. It is the most efficient primary industry in Australia. It has got that way because it is under efficient control. On the one hand - 
-Has the honourable member not heard of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd which is responsible for the marketing of Australian sugar? That is how much he knows about it. 
I am simply attempting to explain that if honourable members opposite are honest in their contentions about primary industry they will back any scheme that provides for orderly marketing and controlled production in relation to demand. That is particularly necessary with respect to export industries, especially monocultures. The best examples of major monocultures in Australia today are the beef cattle industry in northern Australia and the sugar industry. Both are highly vulnerable to the export markets. On the one hand we have the sugar industry protected by long-term bilateral agreements and a domestic floor price and on the other hand we have the cattle industry utterly unprotected due to the policies of the previous Government which for 23 years had a 'hands off the cattle industry ' poliCy 
Another aspect in relation to the sugar industry with which I wish to deal is price control. All honourable members opposite are opposed to price control. Yet they support it in the wheat industry and in the sugar industry with the domestic price schemes. The most stabilising influence on aU the rural industries is a stable domestic price, and honourable members opposite know it. They deny the benefit of price control. The Premier of Queensland went around Queensland condemning price control. Yet in the sugar industry one cannot sell one cane farm because of- price control. Only a few months ago we had a ridiculous situation when a group of efficient cane farmers apparently paid too much for their land on which to grow more sugar. They were knocked back by the Central Sugar Cane Prices Board because they paid too much for their cane land. This is a policy of the Queensland Government, if one can follow it. I wish to make just a few points with respect to the - 
I have supported and will continue to support the overall policies of the sugar industry and the honourable member well knows it. The sugar industry is the most efficiently organised primary industry in Australia today. 
-We heard great play about tuberculosis and brucellosis. Of course we did not hear that it was the Liberal-Country Party Government that refused point blank to introduce a compensation scheme for tuberculosis reactors. Honourable members opposite should not deny it. They turned down the proposal point blank. This Government brought it in. Did the previous Government bring in a compensation scheme for brucellosis reactors? If it did, why did it not bring in a scheme for tuberculosis reactors? 
We also had criticism of this Government about the income tax averaging provisions in the Budget and of the ceiling of $16,000. Which Government brought in the ceiling of $16,000 for income tax averaging? It was the previous Government. That is the government which is causing the harm and the injustice to the sugar industry in Australia today. The POliCy should be to completely wipe the $16,000 limit. That is the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission in condemnation of the previous Government's POliCY of putting a ceiling of $16,000 with respect to the income tax averaging provisions in primary industry. I hope that I can have some influence in getting the $16,000 provision wiped also. 
Of course great play was made about petrol price equalisation. Where in the POliCy speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the Tuesday night following the introduction of the Budget did he state that he would bring back petrol price equalisation? Nowhere did he say he would reduce postal or telephone charges? No. Did he say he would bring in more subsidies for rural industries? Yes. That is the whole basis of the Opposition policy- to spend more and more money and to give subsidies to the big producers. The bigger the producer the larger amount of subsidy he gets. That is the Opposition policy and that has been one of the principal policies that wrecked the stability of primary industry during its 23 years of reign. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, the Apple and Pear Levy Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bm the Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bill and the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Bill as they are related matters. Of course, separate questions Will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- The main point of substance made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and other honourable members who have spoken tonight was in respect of the application of the levy according to the formula in this legislation. They claim that it would cause some discrimination, some inequity or uneven incidence in the application of the levy to the States, particularly with respect to Queensland. Clause 6 ( 1 ) of the Apple and Pear Levy Collection BUI 1975 provides that the Minister or a person authorised by the Minister may remit the whole, or part, of the levy:  ... by reason of special circumstances relating to the production of apples or pears on particular leviable land. 
A remission by an authorised person shall not exceed $5,000. 
I can give an assurance- that is what I have been asked to do- that the Minister for Agriculture Will certainly administer this legislation when it is enacted with full justice and will take into account the provisions of clause 6(1). The Government is aware of the survey made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics relating to the years 1971-72 and 1972-73. A levy of $30 per hectare of bearing apple and pear trees would have an uneven incidence between States particularly as it affects Queensland growers because of low yields per hectare and, consequently, the low volume of fruit sold per hectare. A remission system that limited the incidence of levy to 5c per bushel of apples and pears produced and sold from leviable land would have the following advantages: It would reduce the average Queensland commercial apple and pear grower levy liability from $30 per hectare to approximately $23 per hectare, a reduction of about $100 a farm. Such a remission system would substantially meet the problems of individual orchardists in all States whose income from leviable area is affected because of low yields or seriously affected by natural disaster or by difficulties in marketing production. 
Of course, the 5c a bushel limitation imposed on the incidence of the levy relates to an overall levy of $30 per hectare, which is the maximum permissible rate. If the overall rate of levy is fixed at a level below $30 per hectare there would be a proportionate reduction in the remission level of 5c a bushel. In the instance of a very severe natural disaster where the remission as proposed may be insufficient, applications for remission by levy payers in those circumstances will be looked at on the basis of the case put forward. For the purposes of administration, the remission would generally be available subject to the above criterion to growers with an minimum leviable area of one hectare. That is what I can say in answer to the main point made about the remission. I can assure honourable members that the Minister for Agriculture will administer that section of the Act, when the Bill is enacted, along the lines that I have explained. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report of the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report of the Australian Egg Board for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report of the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 5 (S) of the Dairy Adjustment Act 1974 I present an agreement between the Australian and Tasmanian Governments entitled: Amending Agreement in relation to Dairy Adjustment Programs, Tasmania (1975). 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Government is already making a substantial contribution towards measures related to insect eradication through its grain export inspection service which is vital to the continued successful operation of Australia's export grain trade. The estimated cost in the current financial year of export inspection of grain and flour is about $820,000. 
In the second half of 1973 the Government advised interested parties that it was not prepared to provide additional moneys, over and above its contribution through the grain export inspection service, in the absence of any assurance by industry leaders that the industry would support unanimously and without reservation compulsory on-farm inspection as a feature of the program. Such an assurance has not been forthcoming. Current severe budgetary problems would seem to rule out the possibility of any additional moneys being made available by the Australian Government even if industry leaders were now prepared to accept on behalf of the industry compulsory on-farm inspection as a feature of the program. 
At the recent meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council I indicated that I would, without commitment, be willing to consider any reasonable proposals submitted to me by the AWF and the States concerning the possibility of the Australian Government bringing down legislation in respect of any levy to be imposed on an Australia wide basis under a scheme agreed to by the parties. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
During 1974 forty organisations within Australia were known to be engaged in research of interest to forestry and the forest industries. These organisations, their location, and the number of professional staff they employ are listed in Appendix A. 
The only significant change which has occurred in 1975, has been the transfer from the Australian Department of Agriculture to CSIRO on 1 July, of the forestry research functions of the Forestry and Timber Bureau. The Division of Forest Research was created on that date. 
Expenditure by individual organisations on forestry research is not readily available. It is estimated that the total expenditure on forestry and forest products research is $7.05m by the Australian Government, $2.42m by State Governments, $ 1 . 78m by universities and $0.30m by the forest industry. 
Nineteen of the forty individual groups are either directly associated with forestry or the forest products industry and can be expected to maintain continuing research programs related to forestry. The remaining twenty one groups, whilst currently engaged upon research projects of interest and value to forestry, are not committed to continuing activity in this field. Most of the research carried out by the latter group is of similar interest and value to other industries such as agriculture. 
Research programs undertaken by the Universities and CSIRO, are determined by the Professor or Chief of Division responsible to the University Board and CSIRO Executive respectively. Research programs of State Forest Services or companies are determined by the Forest Service or company concerned. 
Research into problems common to several States is generally decided following planning and coordination among all organisations concerned with forestry and forest products. 
Requirements for long term forestry research as distinct from forest product research, are reviewed at approximately rive yearly intervals at the Forestry Research Conference convened by the Standing Committee of the Australian Forestry Council. State Forest Services, private companies, Universities, trade organisations and CSIRO are represented at the conference. 
Achievement of detailed coordination of research projects in the areas determined at the Forestry Research Conference, rests with the Research Working Groups established by the Standing Committee. These groups also provide effective means of disseminating results of applied and local research. The titles of the Research Working Groups are listed in appendix B. 
Requirements for forest products research are reviewed approximately biennially at the Forest Products Research Conference, sponsored by CSIRO. In addition the research requirements of industry are made known to the research organisations through the Forest Products Research Advisory Panel (FPRAP), established by CSIRO and which includes industry leaders and members of the Standing Committee. 
The Joint Committee on Forest Industries which reports to the Australian Forestry Council also considers broad aspects of forestry and forest industry research. 
The principal areas of research activity and the organisations involved are shown in appendix C. 
-The short answer to the question is that this matter of private wool buyers has always been a bone of contention in the auction system. This particular matter is being studied by the Minister for Agriculture. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Dried Fruits Research Act 1971,1 present the fourth annual report of the Dried Fruits Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Dairy Produce Act 1924-1975, 1 present the interim annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
(Dawson - Minister for Northern Australia) - For the information of honourable members, I present the interim annual report of the Pig Industry Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Grants and matching grants available to nongovernment bodies or individuals were detailed in my answer to Question No. 1556 (Hansard dated 4.9.75, pages 1095-8). 
Loans available to non-government bodies or individuals are set out below: 
Loans made under Section 12/2E of the Social Welfare Ordinance; 
Loans made under the Mining Assistance Ordinance to enable prospectors to carry out mining operations; 
Flood Relief Loans- these are concessional interest loans of up to $10,000 for rebuilding and up to $5,000 for a substitute building block; 
Loans to primary producers made under the provisions of the Encouragement of Primary Production Ordinance. There is a limit of $20,000, although a loan in excess of this figure may be approved by the Minister; 
Loans made under the Rural Reconstruction Scheme; 
Loans to the Northern Territory Housing Commission to provide housing for rental to persons of limited means. The interest on these loans is at the long-term bond rate; 
The advance made to the Northern Territory Home Finance Trustee to enable him to make loans to home-builders; 
Loans to church organisations; 
Loan to the Katherine Meat Works; 
Loans under the Water Supplies Development Ordinance. 
c) Subsidies are available as detailed below: 
Emergency housekeeping services- subsidy available to assist persons deprived of their normal housekeeper through illness etc; 
Pensioner Bus Service- this is a SO per cent subsidy on bus fares for pensioners; 
Subsidies to Missions for maintenance of children of Aboriginal descent. These payments are made on a per caput basis and adjusted annually pro rata to the cost of living; 
Operational subsidy to the Northern Territory Road Safety Council; 
Subsidy on loss of operation of iron ore loading facility in Darwin to the Northern Territory Port Authority; 
Subsidy of up to $2 per ton to assist prospectors and miners to convey gold or other mineral ore to a government battery for crushing. The rate of subsidy is based on the grade of ore and the distance carried; 
Operational subsidy to the Northern Territory Tourist Board; 
Operational subsidy to the Northern Territory Branch of the ' Keep Australia Beautiful ' Council; 
Subsidy for a shipping service from Brisbane to ports on the east coast of the Northern Territory and islands adjacent to the coast. The rate of subsidy is fixed by contract; 
Subsidy for operational and capital expenses incurred by the Northern Territory Reserves Board; 
Subsidy for operational and capital expenses incurred by the Northern Territory Museums and Art Galleries Board; 
Subsidy for transport of stud stock to the Northern Territory; 
Railway freight subsidy; 
Child Welfare Council operating subsidy; 
Drought freight subsidy. 
See (a) above. 
The policy of assistance is circulated among all interested parties by wide-spread publicity in all media. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to Part 3 of Question No. 2691 (Hansard dated 21 August 75, page 468). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The advertising budget for the Department of Northern Australia in 1 975-76 is $70,000. 
National and local advertising particularly in respect of the recruitment of professional and technical staff, but also in respect of tenders, land auctions, industrial safety, legislation, and prices, and public notices dealing with matters of concern for various Divisions of the Department. 
The cost of advertising for the Departments of Northern Development and the Northern Territory, now the Department  of  Northern Australia, for each of the last 5 years was: 1974-75, $57,761; 1973-74, $58,962; 1972-73, $43,375; 1971-72, $37,089; 1970-71, $37,477. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. Applications under the Scheme for assistance for 'clear fell ' and 'partial pull ' can be made up to 3 1 December, 1 975 with a tree-removal dead-line of 30 June, 1 976. 
and (3) Fruit-growing reconstruction is at present the subject of an Industries Assistance Commission (IAC) enquiry, at which, it could be expected, persons or groups with views on the Scheme and its possible improvement have submitted evidence. The Commission is to report to the Government in the near future. 
The Scheme was introduced in July 1972 and has a general application to the fruitgrowing industries. Growers of fresh apples and pears and canning peaches, pears and apricots are eligible to apply for assistance. To 3 1 July 1975 the removal of 1336 acres of pear trees had been approved of which 645 acres were canning pears. Judgements on the effectiveness of the Scheme for particular varieties of fruit should be possible after the publication of the IAC report. 
Aircraft: Non-smoking Areas  (Question No. 2919) 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Since my answer to the honourable member's question No. 178 last September the Australian Dairy Farmers' Federation and the Australian Dairy Industry Council have considered the matter further. 
The Australian Department of Agriculture was advised in April 1975 that the former, by majority decision, has agreed: 'that the basis of payment for milk for manufacture be made up of two components- one for the weight of fat and one for the weight of protein with an adjustment for volume. 
The latter has given a qualified support in the following terms: '(Subject to a favourable recommendation by the Basis of Payment for Milk Committee after further investigations of particular aspects), this Council considers that, as the long-term policy of the industry for application at an appropriate time in the future, the basis of payment to dairy farmers for milk for manufacture should consist of two components- one for the weight of fat and one for the weight of protein with an adjustment for volume'. 
In conveying this advice, the Australian Dairy Industry Council asked that the basis of Payment of Milk Committee conduct further investigations. 'into the proposed change including an adjustment for volume, with particular reference to- 
The cost of the changeover and estimates of the continuing additional costs of the test procedures; 
The effect on individual dairy farmers returns; 
The results of New Zealand experience; 
Further details of overseas dairy countries that have made the change with information as to the date of the changeover and whether the change has had any effect on the fat/ protein relationship'. 
The matter was considered by the Standing Committee on Agriculture at its July meeting. It agreed to reconvene the Basis of Payment Committee to meet the Dairy Industry Council's request, and, in response to a further request, to examine the implications of factory standardisation of milk to defined compositional standards and the feasibility of payment for market milk being on a compositional basis. 
The "New Zealand Dairy Exporter" (the official journal of the N.Z. Dairy Board) recently reported that there was strong farmer support for an extension of the Dairy Board's present guaranteed minimum price- system for milk fat, to cover the solids-not-fat products. The Board proposes that the s.n.f. purchase value for products be fixed each year, within a limited movement scale, and that distribution of any end-of-season surpluses be made to manufacturers on the same basis as that which already applies for butter and cheese. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Goulburn Valley Trades and Labor Council in a telegram of 5 August 1975 suggested that the Reserve Bank supply bridging finance to the canneries and that the Government evaluate the future of the Goulburn Valley Fruit industry and attempt to remove industry uncertainty. 
I have informed the Goulburn Valley Trades and Labor Council that the Australian Industry Development Corporation is currently engaged in an investigation into the circumstances of this industry and its conclusions from this study will be given immediate attention by the Government. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The National Health and Medical Research Council approved a standard for wine at its seventy-ninth session in November 1974. 
The standard did not include the addition of sugar to wine other than sparkling and flavoured wines. 
There is also uniform legislation enacted throughout the Australian States prohibiting the addition of sugar to wines except in the case of sparkling and flavoured wines. 
The practice of adding sugar to various wines is permitted in a number of the major wine producing countries including France. 
I will arrange for this matter to be referred to the Department of Health for their consideration. 
-I share the concern of the honourable member for Leichhardt There are serious problems in Queensland at present in getting off the sugar crop. As the honourable member well knows, the reasons are physical rather than economic. The area north of Townsville has been plagued with unseasonal wet weather, if I might describe it as such, and also the basic structure of the sugar industry has changed in recent years in that all the harvesting now is carried out by harvesters as distinct from the use of cane cutters. Most of the harvesters - practically all of them - are rubber-tyred. It is clear that there will have to be a lot of rethinking in the sugar industry with respect to getting off crops which progressively are becoming bigger. The parameters are well defined in that the crop must be harvested between, say, July and Christmas, particularly in the far north. As tonnages are getting bigger and costs are rising, it is quite clear that there will have to be some rethinking about the whole technology of sugar cane harvesting including the burning of sugar cane. 
Perhaps in relation to harvesting improved techniques can be more satisfactorily evolved for the harvesting of green sugar cane as distinct from burnt cane and perhaps consideration could be given to the throughput of the mills. All these things will have to be looked at. At present probably only about 65 per cent of the peak sugar in the whole of Queensland has been taken off. When one looks at the estimates above peak, which are very substantial, probably only 50 per cent has been taken off. In the far north the position is serious. In the southern area also from Bundaberg south the position is fairly serious, although there is a very good chance that the crop there will be taken off and there is the fact that stand-over cane is more practical than in the far north. In the Burdekin and Mackay region the position is reasonably satisfactory. 
-Yes, that is my electorate. I can assure the honourable member that it is always reasonably satisfactory in my electorate, so far as the sugar crop goes. However, all these things are serious. The question raised by the honourable member for Leichhardt is being looked at closely by Federal authorities and State authorities. They are investigating the whole pattern of sugar cane marketing. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act 1 924- 1 973,I present the annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With reference to Question No. 2686, part ( 1 ) (a) was answered in my reply to Question No. 1556  (Hansard  dated, 4.9.75, pages 1095 to 1098). 
Loans, as detailed in my answer to Question No. 2686 cost the following amounts: 
I was going to speak at length on the various projects which the Government has embarked on in the development of northern Australia but I think I will simply answer each of the statements made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  Let me deal first with the honourable member for Kennedy who seems to specialise in going around the country and making grandiose, exaggerated statements, usually not based on fact, criticising me personally and criticising the Government. Only 3 weeks ago he went to Mackay in my electorate and criticised me publicly over the media and in the newspapers for my bungling of the Mount Isa railway deal. He said it was a shocking deal. The fact is that the Mount Isa railway deal was made by the Menzies Government. It was the Menzies Government, not the Holt Government, not the McEwen Government, not the Gorton Government, not the MacMahon Government, not the Whitlam Government. It was made 1 5 years ago and I have criticised it. I have not stopped criticising it, because it is one of the worst deals that any government ever made. I agree with the honourable member for Kennedy. But it was the Party he supports that made that deal, not this Government. It involved a capital loan of $33m with total interest repayments of $24m. Out of a total of $57m $33m was a capital loan and $24m for interest payments. I agree with the honourable member for Kennedy, but it was a Country Party government that made the deal, not me and not the Whitlam Government. 
The honourable member and the honourable member for the Northern Territory talked about statehood. Before I deal with that let me just refer to some more of these grandiose statements by the honourable member for Kennedy. He was in Darwin last last week. He criticised me. Speaking about me as the Minister for Northern Australia he said: 'I cannot get to him to get answers to questions'. The facts are that since 1972 the honourable member has asked me one question on northern Australia. The honourable member also said: 'It is difficult to even get to him to ask him a question'. The point is that every - 
-That is a deliberate untruth. Every member in this place, on the Opposition side and on the Government side, knows full well that any time they ask to come to my office they can come. If the honourable member for the Northern Territory is prepared to sit there and say that I have refused him permission to come to my office at any time then I cannot use language that is too strong to refute him. I say the same with respect to the honourable member for Kennedy.  (Honourable members interjecting) 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The Committee will come to order. There are far too many interjections. The Minister will not reply to the interjections. He will address the Chair. The interjections will cease. 
-Let me make this further point. The honourable member for Kennedy is reported in the  Northern Territory News  as saying that when the Liberal-Country Party coalition gained power it would take every step to make the Legislative Assembly effective and meaningful and would set about granting full powers that would lead to statehood. Statehood! 'That is', the honourable member said, 'our definite policy'. In 23 years of government, the Opposition Parties gave the people of the Northern Territory nothing. Who voted in this place and in the Senate against giving the people of the Northern Territory a vote in the Senate? Look at him. Look at the honourable member for Kennedy. Look also to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He crossed the floor in this chamber. He voted against the Opposition Parties. He was not game to support his own Country Party. 
-Can you not take it? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will cease interjecting. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory has spoken. He will cease interjecting. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I warn the honourable member for the Northern Territory. 
In the Senate itself, who voted against giving the people of the Northern Territory a vote in Senate elections? It was the Liberal-Country Party senators. Who voted against giving the people of the Northern Territory a vote in referenda? It was the senators of the Liberal-Country Parties. Who took a case to the High Court to stop the people of the Northern Territory obtaining a vote in Senate elections? It was the Liberal and Country Parties. 
-Here these honourable members talk nonsense about - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have warned the Committee that it must come to order. Admittedly the Minister, I think, is being rather provocative. The honourable member for the Northern Territory in particular, who has spoken and whom I have already warned, will cease interjecting. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member will cease interjecting or I will name him. 
-When the double dissolution debate on this matter took place we saw the same performance from the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He tried to get thrown out just as he is trying to do so now. But then the  Speaker  was a wake-up to him. Let me deal again with my honourable friend from Kennedy and what he is reported as saying in the Northern Territory News. Listen to this. The newspaper reports: 
During his tour of Darwin - 
-You were only in Darwin for a few hours. The honourable member for Kennedy said that he was disappointed that he had not had time to meet wharf workers and the Port Authority. Listen to this: 
A waterside worker in Brisbane before entering politics,  Mr Katter  said - 

 Mr Katter a waterside worker? 
I did not say that he did not work on the wharves. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The Minister will address the Chair. 
-The honourable member should listen to what I am going to say. 
-What the honourable member for Kennedy wanted to do was to 'sort out the port of Darwin'. Those were the words of  Mr Katter,  a former waterside worker. I must admit that I did not know that the honourable member was a waterside worker. 
-The honourable member always loves to criticise me personally. What I said was that I was not aware that he was a waterside worker. I said that he ran a picture show in Cloncurry and that the newspaper would not print that. I do not throw off at the honourable gentleman because of that. That is what I thought he did. 
-Right. The honourable member for Kennedy asked me what stand I took in Cabinet on certain issues. 
-Let me give you 3 examples. I mention first compensation for tuberculosis reactor for cattle. What stand did you take? You completely rejected the case of the cattlemen. You, when in government, threw it out. This Government introduced it. It accepted my submission, which you in government threw out, refused to accept. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! I would remind the Minister that he will address the Chair rather than the honourable member for Kennedy - 

 Dr PATTERSON-Well, he is interjecting. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Then the honourable member will not have any justification for interjecting. 
-Let me take the next point. You asked the questions. I will answer them. I mention next the Kinchant Dam. I assume that you have heard of it because you turned it down flat and would not vote one cent for it. 
-The Liberal-Country Party Government turned it down. Not one cent. It was asked for by the Queensland Government under  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  It was turned flatly down- nil, nothing. 
-The honourable member asks about the Burdekin, the Urannah Dam. 
-You are asking the questions; I am answering them. What did your Government do with respect to the Urannah Dam? Nothing. In 23 years you talked about Burdekin and the Urannah. The cold facts are to be found in the history books. They are that the former Government did nothing. 
In 1949, in his policy speech, Arthur Fadden, as he was before he was knighted, said these words: 
We will not pigeonhole the great Burdekin scheme. We will go ahead and build it immediately. 
He said that in 1949. By 1972, nothing had been done. Not one cent had been spent on investigations. This Government commenced work immediately. It set up the joint Queensland Commonwealth Burdekin River committee. 
Already $500,000 has been spent on basic investigations in relation to geology and engineering. This work should have been done years ago. The honourable member for Kennedy asked me a question about beef roads, specifically the Winton-Boulia road. The Winton-Boulia road is not in the priority for this 3-year program, but - 
-Yes, I know I did. But there are other roads with a higher priority. What I have suggested to the honourable memberand I am not certain from memory whether I said it in the letter- is that he ought to ask the Queensland Government to spend some of its money on this road because - 
-Wait a minute. In the previous 5-year program, the Queensland Government spent $9m of its own money in assisting in the beef roads program. In this 3-year program it is spending nothing. I would have thought that, as the Australian Government is spending $24m on beef roads, the Queensland Government could have found something. But not one cent is it providing. What I would suggest that the honourable member for Kennedy should do- I have not suggested this to the Queensland Government- is propose to the Queensland Government that it should spend some of its own money, the money that it has saved on national highways, for example, on this missing link with respect to the Winton-Boulia Road. 
Of course it is important. I never said otherwise. It is an important road. But there are other roads which have a higher priority in relation to the cattle industry. This missing link certainly should be completed. I repeat that the Queensland Government should use some of its resources. As regards the suggestion by the honourable member with respect to the Gold Coast, if the road to the Gold Coast was full of potholes there would be action. Most certainly there would be action. The Queensland Governmentthat is the Country Party dominated Government of Queensland- should spend less money on super highways between Brisbane and the Gold Coast- and more money in the rural areas of Queensland from which the wealth of Queensland is produced. That is what the honourable member should be criticising the Queensland Government about. 
I wish to deal now with the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. The fashion in this Parliament seems to be for the honourable member for the Northern Territory and to a lesser extent the honourable member for Kennedy- he not so much, although he has done so in recent weeks -to denigrate the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, together with the authorities and community organisations in Darwin, that are doing everything possible to return that city to its former state. Not once do they give any credit to the people of Darwin who have been working flat out since the cyclone repairing houses. Only 2 days ago the honourable member for the Northern Territory rubbished the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  for suggesting - 
-The honourable member did not tell the truth. If he had read the Darwin newspaper for the last 2 days he would have found that the Legislative Assembly and the  Northern Territory News  completely agreed that the Government should go ahead and find those people in the Northern Territory who have put in deliberately false claims. The honourable member apparently is protecting those people, whom no one else would protect. Even the anti-Labor  Northern Territory News  in its editorial said that the Government is doing the right thing. Even the member of the Legislative Assembly representing that field of work said that the Government is doing the right thing. But of course the honourable member for the Northern Territory has to use every possible statement to try to denigrate those people in the Northern Territory who are doing something constructive towards bringing Darwin back to the city it once was. At the present time in Darwin - 
-Why does the honourable member not return to his seat. There are certain forms of this chamber that he is supposed to obey. At the present time the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is using $71m for its housing program. It has under construction 541 relocatable units, 101 modular house units, 117 flats, 70 reconstructed damaged houses and 1300 new houses. The 1975-76 works program provides $77m for 1500 detached houses and flats, 500 relocatable units and 400 reconstructed damaged houses. The total works under construction will cost $71m and the total new works will cost $77m. The overall 1975-76 works program provides $148m for the reconstruction of Darwin. In anyone's language, that is a magnificent effort. Over 4000 houses have been repaired. Hundreds of caravans have been purchased and put into place. 
It has been said by mischievous LiberalNational Country Party sources in Darwin that all the demountable units were leaking. The fact is that the investigation carried out urgently on my instructions revealed only one complaint of a minor leak in the whole of Darwin. But that is the type of nonsense generated by the Liberal and Country Parties in order to denigrate - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  I have spoken on 3 occasions about interjections from my left. If those interjections continue 3 names may appear in the newspaper tomorrow morning and I do not want one of them to be mine in these circumstances. I suggest to honourable members that they cease interjecting. 
It is quite clear that the honourable member for the Northern Territory does not want to hear about his own electorate. He does not want to hear about the work that is going on in his own electorate, inside or outside of Darwin. 
-The honourable member lives there but he would not know. The whole objective of the Government in preparing the Budget has been to continue to maintain the impetus of its policies of reform and progress in the Northern Territory. In anyone's language, there has been a massive injection of funds into the Northern Territory to honour the declared intention of the Government to relieve, rehabilitate and rebuild Darwin. It has done this over the last 12 months and it will continue to do so in the next 12 months. Not only is there a continuing construction program but there is also a continuing program of advancement in health, education, Aboriginal affairs, social development and improvements in outback roadworks and other facilities. 
Not many people realise the magnitude of the money involved in this operation in Darwin. For example, in those early weeks following the onslaught of cyclone Tracy, the Government spent $74.7m in providing food, clothing and shelter for the homeless, evacuating 26 000 residents, restoring essential services and providing men from the armed forces to undertake the massive clean-up of debris that covered Darwin. In this Parliament the work of the Government was recognised. Apparently it is not recognised now, some months later, by the honourable member for the Northern Territory in particular. But the people of Darwin and the people of the Northern Territory recognise the magnificent work - 
-Thank you. They have recognised the magnificent work that the Government has done since cyclone Tracy. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-I  call the honourable member for Wakefield. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Science and Consumer Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 39,20 1 , 000. 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly report on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for July 1975. Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I do not carry these figures in my head but I doubt that what the honourable member said about -the world price dropping from $400 a tonne to $250 a tonne is correct. I think the honourable Member will find that that is the figure in respect of the equalisation interim value. This has been due certainly to the fall in world prices for skim milk powder, which is causing concern to some sections of the dairy industry, particularly those producing that type of product. A problem could develop as many dairy farmers could perhaps turn to the supply of alternative products to companies making condensary products. I will raise this matter with the Minister for Agriculture. The second part of the question asked by the honourable member refers to a matter of policy. I will raise those matters with the Minister for Agriculture. 
I am always very pleased to answer a question on potatoes from the honourable member for Casey because, as everybody knows, he represents Kinglake which produces the best potatoes in Australia. 
Honourable members- Oh. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1973 I present the interim annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to questions No. 31 10  (Hansard,  1 October 1975, page 1598). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3110 published in  Hansard of  1 October, page 1598. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been specifically misrepresented. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have been in the Parliament for only 10 years. I listened with respect - 
-Yes, I listened with respect to the previous speakers about decisions on collective misrepresentation. 
All those have been based on infinite numbers of members of the Liberal Party, the Country Party, the Communist Party or some other organisation. 
-My point is this: A deliberate assertion was made that Government members on the front bench who number only - 
-They number only twenty - 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave because I have been misrepresented. 
The Minister for Agriculture has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the honourable member may be aware, administrative responsibility for the cattle tick control program in the State of New South Wales rests with the New South Wales Department of Agriculture. The involvement of the Australian Government is restricted to representation on the Cattle Tick Control Commission, the body responsible for recommending tick control policy to New South Wales. 
The Minister has ascertained that recent speculation that the funds currently made available by the New South Wales Government for cattle tick control would necessitate the retrenchment of 140 tick inspectors has not proven correct. The number of retrenchments necessary has been reduced by something of the order of 50. 
The Minister advises that the Cattle Tick Control Commission met on 15 September 1975 and reviewed policy in the light of available resources. Included in its recommendations was acceptance of the importance of adequate border controls. 
The exact disposition of tick inspectors in New South Wales is within the sphere of responsibility of the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture and is not a matter about which the Australian Government maintains records. 
Although a major portion of the funds allocated to the Department of Agriculture is provided under special appropriationsand these are not affected by deferral or rejection of the Appropriation Bills- the successful operation of all of the administration of the Department depends on public servants or human resources, and without them it is possible that the complete fabric of assistance to primary industry in Australia could collapse. I will give one instance alone. It is quite clear that neither the Leader of the Country Party nor his  Deputy  has even looked at the seriousness of this matter. By the middle of next month practically all the money available for meat inspection and veterinary surgeon services in Australia will have been expended. As anybody will know, it is illegal under Federal law to export meat from Australia . unless it is authorised by the inspection services. What the Leader of the Country Party and the Country Party are going to do is deliberately to close down the export meatworks throughout Australia. That is what they are going to do because it is impossible to operate meatworks without meat inspectors and veterinary surgeons. Yet the Country Party is the Party which protects primary industries! Let it be known, let it be rammed home to the Country Party and its supporters throughout Australia, that this is what could happen. It is all right to say that meat inspectors may work voluntarily. They may, but they are in a different category from public servants, for example, in Canberra, because they are scattered throughout the length and breadth of Australia away from their homes and they are dependent on Federal finance. 
-You will be going up to Dawson and you will be facing the meat workers in Dawson. You will be facing the meat workers in Rockhampton, the meat workers in Bowen, the meat workers in Townsville, the meat workers in Brisbane and in Cairns who are, as you well know, a very viable force within those communities. Meat exports are the life blood of many of those towns like Rockhampton. This illustrates the irresponsibility of the Country 
Party. This does not relate just to meat inspections. Other primary industries such as the  dairy  industry and the fruit industry will also be affected. In fact, the whole of the inspection services in Australia could collapse due to the unprincipled, unprecedented and irresponsible action of the Liberal and National Country Parties in this Parliament. 

 - Mr Speaker. I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented. My attention was drawn last night to an article in a Queensland newspaper, the  Sunday Sun.  The article was a vitriolic attack on the Government but in it appeared these words: 
Rex Patterson says the government is gone. 

 Mr Speaker. I made no such statement. It is a malicious untruth. What is more, it reveals the depths to which newspaper proprietors will sink because it is written under the nom de plume of 'The Drum from Eureka in Canberra'. Later on. using inverted commas this time, the article says: 
Patterson said' It's about time we had a light again. I don't mind losing one as long as it's a fight.' 
Can honourable members ever imagine any parliamentarian saying anything more stupid? Again it is deliberately false. I will end on this note: I think these types of nom de plume indicate the depths of despair reached by some newspaper proprietors. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960-1973 I present the annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 5 of the Dairy Adjustment Act 1974 1 present amending agreements between the Australian Government and the governments of Victoria and Queensland relating to sub-section 5 (2) of that Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government will provide a direct contribution to wool research in 1975-76 of $1 1.8 million from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The balance of the wool research expenditure, i.e. an estimated $6.4 million, will be provided from the Wool Tax revenue and/or the reserves of the Wool Research Trust Fund. 
On the most recent indications, the Wool Tax is estimated to yield $27 million, of which $26.6 million will be allocated to the Australian Wool Corporation for wool promotion and for marketing administrative costs. Any balance will be allocated to the Wool Research Trust Fund from which research expenditure will be met. 
The reserves of the Wool Research Trust Fund represent the accumulation of amounts remaining from Government and grower contributions, together with earnings from interest and royalties, after meeting research expenditure in past years. A number of approaches are possible in attempting to quantify the proportion of the reserves which represent past contributions by woolgrowers or by the Government. However, it is considered that, on any reasonable basis of assessment, Government contributions would have to be regarded as the original source of at least fifty percent of the reserves. 
On the above basis it would appear on present indications that, of the total of $18.2 million set aside for sheep and wool research programmes in 1975-76, at least $14.3 million will be provided from the current Government contribution or from reserves accumulated from Government contributions in previous years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Fruitgrowing Reconstruction Scheme provides for the initial approval of trees for removal and for the financial assistance to become available only after the trees have been actually pulled. There is therefore a time lag between approvals and removals. At 31 August 197S approximately 90 per cent of approvals had been removed. 
Acres of trees approved for removal to 31 August 197S were: 
Pursuant to section 3 (6) of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Act 1973 1 present the annual report on the operation of that Act for the year ended 3 1 August 1 974. 
-As honourable members know, there is grave concern about this issue because although a lot of assistance to rural industries is guaranteed under special appropriations the salaries of meat inspectors and veterinary  services are provided for under the Appropriation Bills. Honourable members will know also that no meat can be exported from Australia except with the approval of the meat inspection services which of course are provided by the meat inspectors and the veterinary officers of the Federal Department of Agriculture. Under the present appropriation it is certain that the money would have run out some time this month. However, a close examination of the relevant Acts has revealed that it is possible to pay meat inspectors and veterinary officers within the operations of the Act which deals with the collection of levies with respect to meat inspection in Australia. Although the normal practice is to pay the amount of money collected for meat inspection into the trust account and then into Consolidated Revenue and then to appropriate it in the normal way for the payment of salaries, it is possible to short-cut that process by direct payment from the balance of the trust account. The Minister for Agriculture, under section 10 of the relevant Act, has the power to do this. I have consulted our legal authorities. They have informed me that this action is perfectly legal. I have consulted the Prime Minister who has asked me to do everything possible legally to pay meat inspectors to guarantee the meat exports from Australia. 
It is a fact that there has been a drastic shortfall in the estimated availability of wheat in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. This has tightened the world demand. Our production levels and our export capabilities are such that it is possible we will have only a very small stock carry over for export at the end of the season because we have very large orders in the pipeline. We have made major sales of wheat to Russia, to China and to Egypt, some of it through term agreements. All of our estimated production of wheat in the next harvest will be taken care of by the Australian Wheat Board in secure markets. 
The' answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister representing the Minister for the Media on 4 December 1974 (Hansard, page 4590) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In May 1975, following a recommendation from the Australian Dairy Produce Board which was acting on a request to it from the Australian Dairy Industry Council my predecessor approved use of monies from the stabilisation fund to an amount not exceeding $40,000 for the conduct of a special study of the industry by Spectrum. 
While the submission from the Australian Dairy Produce Board made no reference to the matter, I am informed that before submitting its recommendation, the Board considered this aspect and satisfied itself about the propriety of the arrangements. 
and (5) These are matters for arrangement between the Australian Dairy Industry Council which commissioned the study and Spectrum International. However, to assist the honourable member, I have been informed that the personnel were selected after discussion with individuals and organisations within the dairy industry; and that, to date, a progress payment of $25,000 has been made to Spectrum. 
Two members of the 'think tank' team, both dairy farmers, have been appointed to the Australian Dairy Corporation from a list of names submitted by the Australian Dairy Farmers ' Federation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In the States where dual or joint meat inspection services operate, extra costs are incurred but it is not known whether this is increasing the price of meat products. 
and (3) Yes. Since 1973 the Australian Agricultural Council has considered meat inspection arrangements on several occasions. Meetings between officers of the various Departments involved have also been taking place, most recently on 23 October 197S. These discussions are directed towards rationalising the system and if possible reducing unnecessary costs. 
For the information of honourable members I present the resolutions of the ninetythird meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council held in Canberra 4 August 1 975. 
In answer to a question earlier this week I said that on the latest estimates available with respect to the coming wheat harvest, production would be in the vicinity of 10.8 million tonnes and after all commitments in the pipeline, including major sales to Russia, China, Egypt and Japan, there would be a carryover of stocks of about 500 000 tonnes, which is extremely small. Chile has been an established customer of Australia for a number of years and approximately 300 000 tonnes of wheat has been taken by Chile on average per annum up to and including the 1973-74 harvest. In September 1 973 the Chilean Government was overthrown. I well remember the date because I was sitting around a table with some Latin American Government Ministers negotiating some sugar matters when the news came through. As a result of the overthrow of that Government the maritime unions imposed restrictions on the" loading of commodities for Chile. But after an approach from the Australian Wheat Board, which pointed "out that the contracts for the 1973-74 harvest had in fact been made with the government that had  been overthrown, the maritime unions then allowed the wheat to be sent to Chile and the 1973-74 harvest contracts were honoured. 
At the- end of last year a lot of negotiations took place between the Australian Wheat Board, the Government, the maritime unions and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' with respect to the 1974-75 harvest. As a result the unions decided to review their position. The President of the ACTU then took the matter to the ACTU Executive where it was decided that because a world-wide inquiry into conditions in Chile was being conducted by the International Labour Organisation it should wait for the decision of that inquiry. In June this year the ILO conference, consisting of representatives of most nations of the world, met and considered the actions of the Chilean Government. The Chilean representatives there took a conciliatory and co-operative attitude and gave the conference an undertaking that they would attempt to solve the impasse in Chile when they returned. 
Those are the facts at present. I have referred to the carryover from this year's harvest. The Wheat Board is a little concerned and so is the board in Canada, because of the very large purchases of grain by Russia from the United States of America- some 20 million tonnes this yearplus the signing of the new agreement between Russia and the United States for 6 million tonnes a year. This has to be looked at very carefully in the future because of its effects on Australia and Canada. These matters are well in the hands of the Wheat Board and the Government at present. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Meat Industry Act 1964-73 I present the report of the Australian Meat Board for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to include an allowance for the labour of owner/operators of wheat farms in the specified cost items used to determine annual movements in the home consumption price of wheat under the currentsixth wheat industry stabilisation plan.  (Quorum formed). 
An owner/operator allowance has been included in home consumption price adjustment procedure's in previous wheat stabilisation plans although the basis of calculating this allowance and the method of inclusion has varied. In the first 4 plans it was adjusted annually along with all items in the index to determine movements in the home consumption price. In the fifth plan it was one of a collection of items which were held constant in the index for the duration of the plan. 
One of the changes at the commencement of the sixth plan was the exclusion of those cost items which had been held constant during the previous plan from the index structure used to calculate movements in the home consumption price. The owner/operator allowance was one of those items. However, at the same time the Government gave an undertaking that the decision with respect to that allowance would be reviewed prior to the second year of the plan- 1975-76. As a result of this review the Government decided to include in the cost items used to adjust the home consumption priceof wheat an item representing the 'cost' of the owner/operator's labour input into the wheat enterprise. The decision gained the ready acceptance of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation and was endorsed by all State governments as parties to the complementary legislative arrangements supporting the orderly marketing and stabilisation scheme for wheat. It will now be made effective by clause 4 of this Bill. The new allowance will be referred to as an 'operator's labour allowance', to distinguish it from the previous concept of an'owner/operator allowance'. 
Information collected by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in its wheat industry survey will be used to ascertain the owner/operator's physical labour input into the wheat enterprise. 
This will then be costed using appropriate rural wage awards and the annual movements in this item included with the movements in cash costs and rail freight and handling charges that are taken into account in the annual review of the home consumption price of wheat. Concurrent with the introduction of amending legislation for the purpose described above, opportunity is being taken by the accompanying Wheat Export Charge Bill to effect a machinery amendment to the definition of wheat products at present in section 4 of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act. The opinion of the First Parliamentary Counsel is that this definition should reside in the Wheat Export Charge Act. Clause 3 of the Bill effects this transfer. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to change the basis and rate of the existing butter fat levy, to provide a more equitable and effective form of financing the operations of the Australian Dairy Corporation which replaced the Australian Dairy Produce Board as from 1 July 1975. The main source of finance for the operation of the Australian Dairy Produce Board was obtained from a levy on butter fat used in the production of butter, butter oil, butter powder, cheese and ghee. However, the revenue obtained over the last 2 years from the maximum rate of levy of 24c per cwt butter fat for Board administrative purposes and overseas market promotion and 24c per cwt butter fat for domestic sales promotion was insufficient and the Board was forced to rely on commission from sales to cover its expenditure. This situation was the result of a fall off in the production of some butter fat products coupled with rising operational costs and requirements for promotional funds which have risen along with the general cost increases that have occurred. The changes proposed follow a review of the existing legislation made at the request of the industry. These changes which I foreshadowed in my second reading speech on the Bill to establish the Australian Dairy Corporation in May last have been approved by the major dairy industry organisations and will enable the Corporation to obtain the necessary finance for its operations without relying on other measures. 
The Bill- clause 5- imposes a levy on the butter fat contained in all milk or cream produced in Australia and supplied by the producer to a factory for resale other than milk supplied and sold in the retail liquid milk market. 
The range of products covered by the levy will consequently extend beyond the present range as the industry considers it is appropriate that all manufactured products should make a contribution to the operations of the Corporation. Clause 6 of the Bill provides for a maximum rate of levy of $1.50 per 100 kilograms of butter fat for the purpose of financing the Corporation's administration and overseas market promotion activities, and $ 1.50 per 100 kilograms for financing domestic sales promotion activities under the aegis of the Corporation. These are the rates which were recommended by the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and they are designed to ensure that the Corporation can carry out its operations without relying on other measures. The rate of $1.50 per 100 kilograms for domestic promotion is designed to permit a substantial increase in the Corporation's domestic sales promotion activities with a view at least to maintaining the position of dairy products in an increasingly competitive market situation. Clause 6 also provides for an initial operative rate of levy of $1 per 100 kilograms for the Corporation's administration and overseas promotion activities and 85c per 100 kilograms for the Corporation's domestic sales promotion activities. These rates may be varied by regulation after taking into account any recommendation made to the Minister by the Corporation after consultation with the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation and any other organisation that the Minister considers appropriate. 
The legislation provides that the levy is payable by the producer of the milk or cream as the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation believes that as its incidence will inevitably be passed back to the producer it should be clearly identified as a producer levy. For the purpose of facilitating the collection of the levy provision has been made in the accompanying legislation for it to be payable initially by the purchaser of the milk or cream concerned and to be recoverable from the producer of the milk or cream. The Government believes that the proposals embodied in this Bill will give the Australian Dairy Corporation a firm financial basis to enable it to function effectively in the future in the undertaking of domestic promotion and the export marketing of Australian dairy products. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the machinery necessary for the payment and collection of the levy to be imposed under the Butter Fat Levy Bill 1975, that I have just introduced. This Bill has been drafted to take account of the current practices which operate in the dairy industry. Clause (5) makes provision for the ascertainment of the amount of leviable butter fat in milk or cream in accordance with procedures to be specified in regulations. These will be based on the testing methods and procedures currently accepted in the industry to determine the butter fat content of producers' milk or cream for the purposes of the levy. 
To facilitate the collection of the levy the Bill makes provision in clause 7 for the purchaser of the milk or cream to make payment on account of the producer's liability for levy and for the purchaser to have the right to recover from the producer amounts so paid. The clause also provides for the making of deductions by the purchaser in anticipation of any levy that may become payable. The Bill provides in clause 8 penalties for non-payment of levy by the due date with a power to remit such penalties in appropriate circumstances; and also provides in clause 9 for recovery of amounts of levy or penalty due. 
Clause 10 of the Bill deals with the powers of an authorised person to enter premises to exercise his functions of search and examination of documents which relate to the amount of levy which is, or may be, payable. The authorised person may enter with the consent of the occupier or may apply to a justice of the peace for a warrant authorising entry. The overall administrative procedures for the collection of the levy to which I have made broad reference have been based on legislation of a similar character that applies to some other industries. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill repeals the Butter Fat Levy Act 1965-1972. The repeal is consequential on the other Bills which I have just introduced. Clause 3 of the Bill provides for regulations under the Butter Fat Levy Act 1965-1972 to continue to apply with a view to ensuring that all outstanding levy payments prior to the date of repeal are collected. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make a consequential technical amendment to the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Act 1958-1975 that has been made necessary by the Butter Fat Levy Bill 1975 and the Butter Fat Levy Collection Bill 1975 which I have just introduced. Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the payment to the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Fund of that portion of the levy that relates to the Australian Dairy Corporation's domestic sales promotion activities. There are no other changes. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
DAIRY PRODUCE BILL (No. 2) 1975 Bill presented by  Dr Patterson,  and read a first time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make consequential technical amendments to the Dairy Produce Act 1924-1975 that have been made necessary by the Butter Fat Levy Bill 1975 and the Butter Fat Levy Collection Bill 1975 which I have just introduced. Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the payment to the Australian Dairy Corporation of that portion of the levy that relates to the administration of the Corporation and its overseas promotion activities. There are no other changes. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion of  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
