It is with rising confidence that I support the Government's programme as set out in the Governor-General's Speech; a feeling of confidence that we can look forward to better days ahead and a better deal for that vital though small section of the Australian nation, the rural community. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has shown that he is big enough not only to survive a prolonged and vicious attack by a section of the so-called popular Press but also a bitter personal attack by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during the recent election campaign. As a result a great many more people have come to realise that that gentleman is as insincere as many of us have known for a long time. The statement of Abraham Lincoln that you can fool some of the people all the time, all of the people some of the time, but never all the people all the time, has never been more vividly exemplified than by the behaviour of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The State Premiers came to Canberra recently with the whip hand, according to the metropolitan Press, and they were going to demand and force the Prime Minister to do this, that and the other. All of us know the result. We saw the attempt by the popular Press to crawl out of the stupid mess it had got itself into by its own inaccurate statements. We find today a Prime Minister with a new determination to lead and to put first the interests of all Australians. 
It was rather striking tonight when the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a very important statement on defence that the Leader of the Opposition did not bother to enter the chamber. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was the only member of the socalled shadow cabinet present when the Minister began his speech. It was some time later before one or two members of the Opposition front bench bothered to enter the chamber. Most of the time, only two members of the Labor shadow cabinet were present. That is what the Opposition thinks of this very serious problem of defence. 
That brings me to the problem of rural industries. Perhaps the greatest problem facing the nation today is the rising cost squeeze, not only upon the rural industries - it has reached crisis proportions there, we know - but upon practically all of our export earning industries as well. It is not commonly known that the export of manufactured goods, for instance, will earn $600m this year. Wool earns Australia ยง800m in a year. Farmers of course are well aware that the wage earner is their best friend. The wage earner must spend to live. He constitutes the home market. The home market is better than the export market, necessary as the export market is and will become. 
The problem of costs must be tackled and tackled effectively if the nation is to continue to prosper. Not only are our rural export industries in deep trouble but also are many of our secondary industries in trouble. Manufacturers are being forced or are in danger of being forced out of hard won overseas markets. Wage earners find every rise in wages means a greater rise in the cost of living. The recent across the board 3% rise in wages and salaries resulted in the Government taking about 1% of the rise by taxation and the cost of most necessities of life rising by 5% to 10% in price. 
There are many reasons for this rising cost problem. The tremendous inflow of foreign capital undoubtedly has been the main cause because pressure upon available labour and materials has forced an abnormal demand. But, without this great inflow of foreign capital, we would be bankrupt at the moment and our balance of payments would be in a disastrous state. In other words, we are living on borrowed capital. No doubt, we all agree that vast sums of capital are necessary to develop this large country, with all its potential. All possible effort must be made to keep our primary industries solvent or the nation eventually must go bankrupt. In that event, we will have unemployment and a major depression. 
Tariffs, in some cases, I believe, are too high. While tariffs are necessary to provide and to maintain employment, at times they do force our costs up to high levels. We find employers bidding up for labour, with substantial over-award payments being made. How, then, can we blame any union leader who goes to the courts for a higher wage when higher than award wages are actually being paid? The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has succumbed to the demands of the union leaders, particularly in respect of the notorious Metal Trades Award. Perhaps no single happening in recent years has done more damage not only to the nation but also to its export industries than this award. Certainly, no recent happening in the industrial field has been more detrimental to the family man on the average wage or the lower wage. Inflation hurts most of all the pensioner, the superannuitant, the lower wage groups, the primary industries and the export industries. I believe that the time has come to have a closer look at the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and its terms of reference to make it more economically responsible. The Commission must be compelled to take into account the economic consequences of its decisions particularly as they affect the average citizen, the wage earner, the small business man and the farmer. 
Irresponsible left wing union leaders have been allowed to take far too much control of industry. These extreme left wing union leaders - many are professed Communists - are not interested in the welfare of the people whom they purport to represent. They are interested in promoting a foreign philosophy and in creating unrest and discontent in the work force, for this is the only way in which they can hope to promote and to expand their foreign philosophy. They use strong arm and intima.datory tactics that should never be permitted in any democracy. They most definitely do not represent the great majority of Australian workers. The latest available figures - these are very interesting - show that in 1954 61% of Australian wage and salary earners belonged to any union. Today, only 53% of Australian wage and salary earners belong to a union. This is rather an extraordinary fact. Do not let us kid ourselves that employers would not take advantage of the work force if there was not a strong union movement. 
I believe in and am all for strong unions provided that they are in the hands of the rank and file. I would like to see control of unions put back in the hands of the rank and file where it ought to be. Today, many union leaders are elected by a minute number of the members of that union or those working in a job represented by that union. The result is obvious. The control of those unions is in the hands of the extreme left, the pro-Communist minority - the militant few. I believe that the Government should have enough courage to act in the present circumstances and to make secret ballots compulsory in all union affairs, under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Electoral Office. That is a democratic procedure. Do honourable members opposite object to a compulsory secret ballot? What are they afraid of? Such a step would destroy in one act the control exercised by many left wing extremists over the rank and file of unions. It would destroy a dictatorship much more ruthless and far less human than any dictatorship of the right wing, lt would eliminate immediately much of the present industrial unrest through which thousands of men are thrown out of work and women and children are going without proper food and clothing merely to satisfy a foreign philosophy. 
The average Australian as I know him wants to work. I have lived amongst working people all my life. The average Australian worker wants to dress as well as he can, to own the best home he can buy, to drive the best motor car and to give his children the best possible education. He is happy to do those things if he receives a reasonable wage. He hates unjustified industrial unrest. We all know that the average Australian is capable of doing as good a job as any worker in the world and, in many cases, a better job, given a fair chance. 
I represent a country electorate which embraces a wide field of rural, secondary and service industries. It is a section of the community that is not sharing in the booming prosperity about which we hear so much. Nevertheless, it is a most important part of the Australian nation which earns 75% of our overseas income, which must be found to pay for about 80% of our imports to keep the wheels of industry turning. I and my colleagues are determined that the people we represent will be given a better deal and a greater share in the rewards for their industry and hard work. Country people, whether in country towns or on the land, represent a minority and they, as well as we who represent them, must be a vigorous and determined minority if we are to be heard in the nation's councils. 
Last week an attempt was made in this House at political gain by the Opposition by raising a matter of urgency. It proved to be a damp squib, te use the words of the Australian Financial Review'. Labor's two great and shining hopes made a completely destructive attack on primary industries without any attempt whatever to put forward a worthwhile suggestion. They were acting true to form. They not only attacked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony);  they also attacked every rural organisation. They attacked the Australian Wheat Board and growers' organisations. Neither member is a practical or experienced farmer. There seems to be some doubt at present in the minds of honourable members opposite as to who is to be the shadow Minister for Primary Industry and who is to be the shadow Minister for National Development. 
I have not noticed the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  wearing a sprig of Paterson's Curse as he promised to do in his maiden speech. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, refers to his colleague as 'Paterson's Curse' or as 'Dawson's dilemma.' After Bill Gunn finished with him in a recent television interview and after the Minister for Primary Industry deflated him at Jerilderie it may be that he will wither away and only dried sticks will remain of his emblem of the Riverina, Paterson's Curse. 
I have heard the honourable member for Riverina likened to a rainbow that today appears in the sky, tomorrow is gone, and touches the earth where the promised pot of gold is to be found but has never yet been discovered. Honourable members who wish to know more about him should be reminded that he is the man whose name was blazoned across the country when he stated that there was venereal disease in Arab horses. It was just as imaginative and wild a statement and was proved to be entirely as wrong as many of his other statements. I am reminded of a remark made to a colleague of mine by a reporter em ployed by a leading newspaper. He said: Say something stupid and we will give you a screaming headline'. 
The Australian Labor Party of course has no rural policy, no policy for primary producers. Its only policy is to take advantage of the position in which primary industries find themselves today. Every member of the Party, including the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Riverina, has voted in support of the policy of the Leader of the Opposition to disfranchise more and more people of an effective vote in this House. The aplication of the principle of one vote one value would eliminate several country seats in New South Wales and many throughout Australia, irrespective of party. How hypocritical can the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson become when they claim to be concerned for country people while they are actively working to stifle the small voice which people in rural areas have now? 
The Leader of the Opposition has repeatedly said that when he comes to office he will introduce a capital gains tax. He will tax the only equity which many farmers have left in their properties - an equity built up by hard labour, sweat and deprivation in an attempt to improve their farms. What are their capital gains? They are represented by the clearing of land, pasture improvement, fencing, the costly provision of water supplies, breeding more and better stock - all the costly improvements which represent years of toil and self-denial and upon which the farmer has already paid tax. Labor will tax this hard won equity. The honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson will support the Leader of the Opposition in taxing this hard won equity. 
Labor's so-called rural policy is the very antithesis of the interests of primary producers. Chifley once said, of course, that Socialism will not work without the right to direct labour where it is needed, and Labor's policy is to direct the farmers where it wants them, to sell1 their wheat for what it wants to sell it and to give farmers what it wants to give them. It is very significant, I think, that following the Governor-General's Speech not one of the leading so-called popular metropolitan newspapers bothered to mention rural industries in its leading articles, and I read many of them. But we who represent rural industry and rural towns are determined to be heard; we are determined that we will be given consideration, and we are determined to ensure that our people who are the very backbone of the nation will not be allowed to languish; that they will not be allowed to become mere peasants as they would under a Socialist government. We fight not only for our own country people, but we fight because we know their interests are vital to the whole nation. 
The wheat industry, we know, is passing through a difficult period when record production in the major wheat producing countries has caused a world glut of wheat. However, the position is not as desperate as many would like to paint it. A crop failure in one or two of the major wheat producing countries could quite quickly change the whole situation. Labor has tried to break the quota system - a system put forward by the farmers themselves and by responsible industry leaders who have shown great courage and determination in trying to solve this very difficult problem. No government in history has ever given as much support to primary industry as this Government is giving. 
The wool industry, Australia's greatest export industry, is also in dire straits at the present time. Wool is selling at a price which is ridiculously low when compared with the price of other commodities. Wool, unlike wheat, is going into consumption, and I think that we should have a long hard look at the position of wool. I do not think that the auction system is being allowed to operate. We have to have a look at this matter. I believe that the world wants our wool, it needs our wool, and we have to do something about getting a fair price for it. I believe that the manufacturer is prepared to pay a fair price for wool provided somebody else does not buy it for 10c a lb less tomorrow. It is a fact of life that if the manufacturer were to get raw wool for nothing we would not buy a suit of clothes or a woollen jumper or any other woollen article lc cheaper. There is a great deal to be done in reducing handling costs which are one of the great bugbears. 
I think the time has come when we have to take a particularly strong stand in order to see that the wool industry, which is still Australia's greatest export industry and one which has brought this country along to its present position, is given a fair deal having regard to the labour and enterprise which the producers have put into the industry. A rise of even 10c a lb in the price of wool would solve many of the difficulties facing the wool industry, as well as the wheat industry and many other industries. 
Perhaps the brightest part of the rural scene is in the meat industry. The world needs protein and is generally prepared to pay for it. Beef in particular is in keen demand throughout most of the world and new markets are being opened up all over the world including in southern Europe and Russia. A growing market for prime lamb is being enjoyed in the United States and Canada, and a great deal pf lamb has been exported from several abattoirs in my electorate to these markets. It .was Conkey and Sons of Cootamundra who pioneered the air freighting of fresh lamb by jet plane to Canada. I think the House should know this. This is private enterprise at its best. During Canada's winter, when the country is covered with ice and snow, Conkeys have been sending approximately 10 tons of boned lamb to Canada on every Qantas plane. Forty hours after it is slaughtered in Cootamundra it is on sale in the shops in Canada. Conkeys have also pioneered the air freighting by Qantas jet of fresh mutton and beef to Bahrain in the Middle East. The important part about this is that this meat is fresh, it is not frozen or chilled and consequently brings a better price and is in greater demand. 
There is a growing demand for meat throughout the world as standards of living rise, and the introduction of jumbo jets in the near future opens up all sorts of possibilities for the sale of air freighted beef. For instance, there are 700 million Chinese. If we could get every Chinaman to have one good feed of mutton a month we would not have enough sheep in Australia to feed them. That gives some idea of the tremendous potential. Taking the long view, I believe there is a bright future for primary industry provided we producers keep abreast of the times in modern methods of production and animal husbandry, but provided most of all that we are in the forefront in developing new, larger and better markets. Our job, the job of those of us who represent the great primary industries and who understand them, and of those of us engaged in them is to see that the present difficulties are not allowed to bankrupt our primary producers, that they are given every assistance and skilled advice to keep abreast of the latest techniques of management and that they are provided with adequate long-term finance to take advantage of new ideas and new methods. We must, too, give all possible assistance in the finding of new markets and the developing of them. Particularly must we encourage private enterprise as it is exemplified by Conkey and Sons who have, by sheer drive, ability and enterprise won these new markets in a way that should be an example and inspiration to everyone else. 
Shares in the H. G. Palmer company or Tasminex may disappear or fade into thin air overnight, but the land represents a solid permanent asset that has weathered many a storm and will weather this one. Rural industry may have its ups and downs, its booms and depressions but it has always proved itself to be Australia's solid economic foundation, and the people on the land are the very backbone of this nation in peace and in war. Now is the time for primary producers to close their ranks and to fight with resolution and determination for a better deal and a fairer and better share of present day prosperity. This is no time to listen to the blandishments of the Socialists who would use the present problems and frustrations of primary producers for political advantage and leave us a race of peasants on collective farms if they had their way. There are those of us who are prepared to fight, and fight all-out, for our primary producers and our primary industries. But, by God, we expect solid backing. We expect the backing from those for whom we are fighting. But there are some members of the rural community who arc saying, in effect: Those fellows are not doing a terribly good job up there in front. Let us shoot them out of the road. Let us shoot out the front line troops.* 
I appeal to all primary producers to close their ranks and to hold protest meetings everywhere. I welcome protest meetings. At long last the primary producers are coming out and backing the men who have been fighting for them for years. The more protest meetings and the more marchers we have the better it will be, because we understand their problems, we want their backing and we will fight for them. I say: 'Roll up the ammunition. We will fight. We will use it.' We will fight not only in the interests of our primary producers but in the interests of all our people. Freights, we know, are a heavy and increasing burden and are paid both ways by every country dweller, be he a farmer, businessman or other country resident. Extremely high rail freights charged for primary produce in New South Wales at least are providing cheap transport for city workers. This cannot be denied if one looks at the State's railway reports. Telephones are another extremely costly problem and T will have a good deal to say about them later. We are determined to fight for a flat rate for all trunk calls, based on time and not on distance. This is a practical thing, much more practical than the uniform charge of 5c a letter. 
One of the greatest causes of increased costs in rural industry today is municipal and shire rates. The incidence of local government rates in rural areas has become unbearable, and the whole problem of financing local government is due for urgent revision. Shire councils are being called upon to provide all manner of amenities and services which were never intended to be their responsibility. Much of the capital expenditure by local government should be looked upon as part of our national development programme and at least the part responsibility of the whole nation if we are to hold this country. Communications - be they road, rail or telephone - are of extreme importance to country people in all walks of life. Water conservation and reticulation are extremely important. We have to look at the reuse of water. 
In the field of education vast strides have been made. Yet, despite strenuous attempts by myself, my colleagues and my Party to have a shearing school established at Cootamundra, we have been unsuccessful. I appeal to the Federal Government to give us this support for the training of operatives for Australia's most important export industry. Nobody has thought it important enough to train shearers or shed hands. 
They are skilled artisans. They are worthy of a status in this community. They are worthy also of being properly trained. I am determined to see that a pilot shearing school is established at Cootamundra and that from there we will be able to build shearing schools throughout the whole of the Commonwealth. 
The Government has a tremendous record in the field of social services. There has been continued progress and a willingness to seek out the areas of greatest need and to give those areas priority. I agree that areas of poverty still remain. Cheaper and better housing for pensioners is perhaps the greatest need. The problems of the large family are still very real, and the Government is preparing to tackle them. Every Australian born child is a tremendous asset to this country. Large families need and deserve greater assistance. Whilst we spend - and must spend - large sums of money on immigration there is an even more urgent need to assist the large family that is already here. Widows with children also require greater assistance. One could quote many urgent and deserving cases in this field. 1 hope to speak more fully on social services at a later date. 
There are many other subjects about which I would like to have spoken. I would like to have spoken about national service. I would like to see universal national service. I believe that this nation can afford it. This nation is worth defending and if we are to defend it effectively and to have allies come to our aid we must be prepared to stand alongside them and be able to fight with them. I look forward to a worthwhile and fruitful session. We who represent the country areas are determined to obtain a much better deal for the people who are the backbone of this nation. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the  Minister  for Trade and Industry, ls there any foundation in the rumours being widely circulated that substantial quantities of New Zealand frozen beans and peas are coming into this country? 
I propose to confine my remarks to the actual Bill. I marvelled at the leniency which you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  extended to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He wandered all over the place and talked about everything else but the Bill. He tried to turn a debate on a very simple Bill into an attack on the Government and the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  Let me read what the Bill says, lt is a Bill to amend the Social Services Act 1947-1969 in relation to certain married persons suffering illness or infirmity. This is a very simple Bill to amend the Social Services Act in compliance with a promise made in the GovernorGeneral's Speech and in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  The Prime Minister said: 
We shall pay pensions at standard rates instead of at married rates to aged couples who lose the economies of living together by reason of failing health, for example, if one or both of them enter a nursing home. 
This Bill simply amends the legislation so that this can be done.. It is in pursuance of the Government's policy and the Minister's policy to seek out areas of special need and to amend legislation in the interests of those who most urgently need assistance. I commend the Minister for this thoughtful amendment to the Act. There is nothing very difficult about the Bill. We know that there are many areas of need in the matter of social services. We know that a great many of these needs have already been provided for, but there will always be areas of need. The scriptures stated that the poor will always be with us. This is true. There will always be areas which it is almost impossible to legislate for. I deprecate an attack on the Minister and an attack on the Government in a very wide sense in regard to social services when the Minister is trying to amend and improve the Act. 
I suggest that 95% of the speech of the honourable member for Oxley had nothing whatever to do with the Bill. It is as simple as this: The Bill provides assistance for married couples who are not able to enjoy the benefits and savings, if they are insured, of living together because one partner goes into hospital. Throughout the world the principle has been adopted that a married couple can live more reasonably than a single pensioner. All the Bill has done is to provide that these people who are living alone because one partner is in hospital shall get the same benefits as single pensioners. It is as simple and as straight forward as that. It is quite a change from the pattern in Australia and overseas. 
I commend the work that has been done in the nursing homes, and I commend the Minister for the assistance he has given to these people so that they will have a better opportunity. Of course, the Bill will raise the property limit and affect the supplementary assistance eligibility of a married pensioner who is separated from a spouse for health reasons. He or she will be treated as a single pensioner. Without going into any great detail, I give my wholehearted support to the Bill. I Commend the Minister for his diligence' and sincerity in his difficult office as Minister for Social Services. I deprecate petty attacks on him in a debate on a straightforward Bill. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. What are the most recent developments in the consideration of the provision of a north-south inland highway linking Berrigen on the Queensland-New South Wales border with Victoria and passing through the Mumimbidgee and Murray irrigation areas? Does the Minister agree that such an inland highway would be of great defence value? Does he also agree that such a route would be of inestimable value as a drought relief road which would enable stock from Queensland and New South Wales to bc quickly and economically transported from areas which are subject to prolonged drought to lush irrigated and natural pastures in New South Wales and Victoria? Finally, does he agree that such a highway would compare more than favourably in economic terms with the very successful beef roads of northern Australia? 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 am very grateful to my friend, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  for directing your attention to the state of the House. In rising to support [he passage of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1970, 1 wish to draw attention first to the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The Minister said: 
This Bill is intended to amend the Wheal Industry Stabilisation Act in 2 respects, lt  will  complement legislative action by the State:.: First. to implement a quota scheme tor wheat deliveries; and, second, to give discretionary power to the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat in Australia for purposes other than human consumption at prices lower than the price for human consumption. 
This Bill proposes a pretty straightforward amendment to the Act. I know that discussion today has ranged widely although the Bill is a fairly straightforward one. I propose to be brief and to the point. 
The Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act 1968 provided for the fifth consecutive 5-year stabilisation plan for the wheat industry. In 1968-69, wheat production exceeded 540 million bushels. Over 515 million bushels were delivered to the Austraiian. Wheat Board. This was at a time when there was gross over-world production. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  refuses to accept that such a position of gross over-world productionexisted. He bases the whole of his argument on the theme that over-production occurred in Australia and that this was the cause of the introduction of the quota system. He ought to know better than that. 
Wheat growers face a tremendous problem because of this over-production regarding the provision of storage facilities and marketing. Those of us who are wheat growers and who arc engaged in the wheat industry know that wheat growers acted very responsibly in backing their leaders in introducing a quota scheme. Criticism came from many people. Most of the critics were not wheat growers. Criticism came today from the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  neither of whom is a wheat grower. Despite this criticism the scheme has been accepted and supported by a great majority of the wheat growers themselves. Surely nobody knows better than the leaders of the industry what the problems are and what is the best procedure to take to deal with those problems. 
Members of the Opposition, notably the honourable member for Riverina, have criticised continually the leaders of the wheat growers. I must pay tribute to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who has been much more rational than most honourable members on the Opposition side. He at least does know something about primary industry. He at least is a theorist as far as agriculture is concerned even if he is not a practical farmer. It is very obvious that no honourable member opposite is a practical farmer. One has only to look at the 3 speakers put up in this debate by the Opposition. The honourable member for Riverina is not a practical farmer. While the honourable member for Grayndler always provides comic relief, we know that he is not and never has been a farmer. 
As my honourable friend from Gwydir says, he was born at Currabubula. Somebody suggests that he was born in a stable; I am very sure that it was not a manger. 
Like all Socialists who wish to take over primary industry as a whole, honourable members on the Opposition side would like to see a left wing dictatorship. 
They support the socialisation of all means of production, distribution and exchange. 
That is the pledge they have to sign. What does socialisation mean? 
Look, you may be a school teacher- 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry say what domestic or local sales of wheat were made by the Australian Wheat Board in the year ended 31st December 1969? In view of the extravagant and obviously incorrect statements that have been made about the volume of black market sales of wheat, particularly statements made by a member of this House, will the Minister say what sales have been made this year compared with sales made in the domestic marketlast year? 
On behalf of the  Chairman  of the Publications Committee I present the Committee's first report. Copies of the report have been circulated. 
Report - by leave - agreed to. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service, is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Henty. In view of the latest blatant, politically motivated and irresponsible strike action initiated by  Mr Hawke, President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and bearing in mind the prior announcement by the Leader of the Opposition of  Mr Hawke's  intention, as well as the other recent politically motivated industrial disorders, can the Minister for Labour and National Service give any lead to decent law abiding unionists in Australia who presently have no say in such decisions, as to what action these responsible unionists should take. 

 - Mr Speaker, in rising to discuss the provisions crf the Budget, I wish first to draw attention to what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said yesterday in his Budget speech. He stated, speaking on behalf of the Australian Labor Party: 
Our purpose is to destroy this Budget and to destroy the Government which has sponsored it. 
Perhaps he might have been a little more honest if he had added:   . . by the continued and increasing planned use of strikes, by the promotion of industrial unrest and by the use of violence as was used by builders labourers, and by  the  defiance of law and order - all this under the direction of  Mr Hawke  and his left  wing supporters. 
The truth is that the pensioner, the wage earner and the farmer have no greater enemy than  Mr Hawke  or the Leader of the Opposition. I have a number of friends on the Opposition side. I do not associate them with this sort of action. I am afraid that they are being led unwittingly along the road to increasing costs and to the reduction of the purchasing power of the money of pensioners, wage earners and primary producers. Of course, this had to be a deflationary Budget to try to counter the activities of  Mr Hawke  and of the Leader of the Opposition and those who support him. Something had to be done to make it more difficult for them to keep increasing the costs of those sections of the community who cannot afford to meet those increased costs. 
It would be impossible to bring down a Budget that would please everybody, but it is much more difficult to produce an equitable national Budget when confronted with the present economic conditions. We have on one hand over-employment and a booming economy in the industrial, commercial and mining fields, while depressed and deteriorating economic conditions exist in the rural industries field. The inflow of vast sums of overseas money has created an excessive demand for labour and materials and has played right into the hands of the left wing militant unions led by  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in collaboration with the Leader of the Opposition and some of his supporters who see, in the depressed state of rural industries, a chance to win country seats by the age-old left wing philosophy that socialism and communism thrive on depression, unemployment and loss, and frustration of the people. The rural industries are suffering most of all from rising costs- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The point of order is without substance. 
I realise that they cannot take it,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Rural industries are suffering most of all from rising costs which, together with falling world prices, have combined to make many rural enterprises unprofitable. Rising costs affect most severely the pensioner, the superannuitant, the lower income group, the primary producer and, increasingly, those secondary industries which have built up a substantial export potential. Certainly, I would have preferred to see the basic pension raised by at least $1 per week and far smaller reductions of income tax for !he middle income group and higher income group who were so vocal for some reduction in income tax. However, no increase would have been of any real or lasting benefit to the pensioner, to the lower income group or to the large family unless the Government was prepared to take strong measures to control the strike-happy, power-drunk  Mr Hawke  and the militant left wing union leadership who are the real enemies of the pensioner, the superannuitant, the lower income group and particularly the primary producer. 
Any person in the middle and lower income groups will tell honourable members that every recent wage rise has left him worse off. That was quite easily shown with the last across-' he-board rise of 3% in wages of which the Government took about one third in increased taxes. But the cost of goods that the wage earner must buy rose by 15%, 20% or even 30%. Nothing could more quickly force up cost to industry and particularly to the farmer, nor reduce more effectively the purchasing power of the pensioner, than the introduction of the 35 hour week. Yet, we see support of the introduction of the 35 hour week by those who claim to be concerned at the plight of primary producers and of farmers. 
For instance, does the very vocal honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  support the introduction of the 35 hour week? I have asked him this question often enough, but he has never been prepared to answer it. Does he support the continual increase in wages without at least an equal rise in productivity? Of course he supports it, just as the Leader of the New South Wales State Opposition, who has tried very hard to apologise for what he said and for what the New South Wales State Executive of the Australian Labor Party has said, supports the 35 hour week. The honourable member for Riverina, the Leader of the Opposition, and the New South Wales Leader of the State Opposition all support the 35 hour week and support the rolling strikes and everything else that  Mr Hawke  dictates to his subordinates, to the Leader of the Opposition and to left wing Labor Party members. None dares defy the dictates of the party or, for that matter,  Mr Hawke  who is the real master, because if they did their heads would roll as did the heads of the former member for Batman,  Mr Benson,  and of Mt Galbally and  Mr Harradine. 
I believe that the time has come when this Federal Government must take stronger action, in the interests of the whole nation, against lawbreakers. Unless the Government takes urgent and strong action to control those who are wrecking the economy this country will face a disastrous recession. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said today that he would take strong action. I was very pleased to hear him say that here today in answer to a question. A serious recession is occurring already in many of our country towns. That situation applies not only to those towns in the drought areas where things are even worse  
Economic measures alone are not enough. A national government must be prepared to govern, to uphold the law and to deal with lawbreakers, whoever they may be. The great malady that affects far too many Australians is apathy. We, the people, have been apathetic about the active disruptive element in our midst. Alan Reid, perhaps the most experienced and most balanced of all of our political correspondents, drew attention to this gravest of all threats to our freedom in an excellent article in the 'Sunday Telegraph' of 16th August last, when he gave the irrefutable facts concerning a direction to the building workers' union to step up the destruction of private property. Alan Reid's report, and the leading article in the same newspaper, drew attention to the fact that decent trade unionists were being misled and duped by Communist leaders in an attempt to turn unionists into destructive political propagandists, and to incite them to commit offences against the law. in my electorate in speeches on radio and television I repeatedly have drawn attention to the drift in this young democratic country towards an immensely serious position - in fact, I believe, a disastrous crisis. I have drawn attention to the danger of destroying our civilisation and of returning to the law of the jungle. This is the direct result of our natural apathy. I quote again the slogan of the Returned Services League: 
The price of liberty is eternal vigilance. This is a slogan that might well be displayed in every public place in this country. This, 1 say, is no mere catch-cry but the deeply felt warning that comes from the hearts of those who gave or were prepared to give all for freedom. 
In this so-called modern society, so many are demanding their rights. They demand their right to do as they please, never mind whom it hurts, inconveniences or destroys. They demand the right to break laws that an individual or a minority does not happen to approve of or to like. They demand the right to accept all the privileges and benefits of living in a free democracy without contributing anything at all to that freedom. They demand the right to cringe like cowards behind others who are prepared to stand fast and to protect them as well as the young and the old and the wives and mothers of this young nation, and who protect this cherished freedom which we all enjoy and which was won with blood, sweat and tears. We should forever be reminded of this fact. Too often discipline has become a dirty word and law, order and authority are despised, lt has been the breaking down of law and order, the loss of respect for leaders, for parents and for democratic institutions and the growth of the permissive society, of so-called sexual freedom, that have been the downfall of every great nation and every great empire in history. 
Quite recently we saw in this House a return to the law of the jungle. In this very Parliament, which is the premier law making authority in the land, we witnessed not only blatant defiance of constitutional law and order and elected authority by one misguided individual, but we saw the leader of a once great democratic Party stand up and incite his Party to anarchy. We have seen members of this Parliament calling upon our troops to mutiny in the face of the enemy and on our people to break the law in our streets. We have seen violence by a rabble of builders labourers, incited by their Communist leaders to wreck private property. I refer honourable members again to the article written by Alan 
Reid. We have seen those same leaders encouraging the builders labourers to destroy property at every opporunity they get. There is evidence of intimidation of decent law abiding citizens by threats of violence and strong arm tactics- 
I support the Bill, lt is designed to give effect to the proposals announced in the Budget The Bill will increase by 50c a week the base pension rate for married pensioners and widows and for single pensioners. Secondly, it provides for long term sickness benefits at an increased rate. The increases in the pension will restore to the pension the purchasing power it held prior to recent increases in the cost of living. I wish to pay a tribute to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for the tremendous job he has done in handling a very demanding portfolio. I pay a tribute to his dedication and sincerity and to the great humanity he has shown in the administration of a very difficult office. From my close association with him 1 know that there is so much more he would like to do in many areas of social services. I know that he has been somewhat disappointed because he has not been able to do more at this time. Personally, I believe that the basic pension should have been raised by at least $1. I strongly support the raising .of the amount of child endowment. Unfortunately, the Government is not able to do that at this time. I support the raising of child endowment firstly because it has not been raised for a long while and secondly because it would appear to be the one area foi which substantial help could be given to the man in the lower income group who has a large family. Taxation concessions mean very little to him. It seems to me that child endowment is a practical, worthwhile and effective way of doing something for him. I would like to draw the attention of the House to the inescapable fact that any increase in pensions and child endowment can give only temporary relief while there is a continual rise in the cost of living. The cost of living has been escalating almost every day. There is no doubt that the principal reason for the rising cost of living and the erosion of pensions and the general standard of living has been the holding of the community to ransom by left wing leaders, notably  Mr Hawke.  By means of continual industrial unrest they have eroded the purchasing power of the whole community. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  have combined, for political reasons, increasingly to disrupt industry and to hold the nation to ransom. 
The increase in the basic pension rate has just about kept pace with the rise in the cost of living. The Government has indicated that it will do all in its power to increase that rate as soon as it possibly can. In the meantime many other benefits have been provided. The present basic pension is worth 50 per cent more in actual purchasing power than the Chifley pension in 1948. There are many fringe benefits available now for pensioners which did not exist at that time. Pensioners receive hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits and benefits in many other fields. Supplementary assistance of $2 a week is given to married couples who are paying rent. Concessions are granted in respect of radio and television licences, telephones and travel. The truth is that the pensioner is a very great deal better off than ever before. The present position is so much better than the position in Chifley's time that it bears no comparison at all. This does not mean that the Government is satisfied, but there has been a progressive improvement. Certainly the pensioner is better off than ever before. The introduction of the tapered means test has been, of tremendous value to those who previously were worse off than the pensioner and who were just outside the pension range. This Bill will provide help for a large section of the community, perhaps not to the extent that we would like to help them but certainly it will improve their position very substantially. The introduction of the health legislation will also be of great benefit, particularly to this section of the community. Medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits are estimated to represent about $3.10 a week to the average pensioner. 
The Bill before the House also makes it possible for a single pensioner to earn $41 a week before he becomes ineligible to receive a pension and will permit a married couple to earn $72 a week. That is quite a substantial amount of money when added to the pension. The Bill lifts the property qualification for a single pensioner to $21,750 and for a married couple to $38,240. That does not include a home or a car. We see a forward step in this field, too. We must realise that the State governments also provide assistance for pensioners. The New South Wales Government assists in providing spectacles, hear ing aids, surgical aids, transport to hospitals and necessary dental attention. This can be added to the benefits that pensioners receive. 
The Bill provides for substantial sickness benefits and assistance. It provides a measure of assistance for invalid pensioners who are incapacitated by illness and it provides some assistance for their dependants as well. Invalid pensions are designed primarily to assist those with a long term, permanent incapacity. Sickness benefits are designed primarily to assist those who are temporarily unable to work or earn a living. The Bill will also help those who are not permanently incapacitated but who suffer a prolonged period of illness or incapacity. I should like the House to consider the tremendous benefits that are provided in this area, of prolonged illness where initially no provision was made. This assistance is now being provided. The Bill provides for an increase in the present rate of sickness benefit from $10 to $15.50 a week after a period of 6 weeks. That is a very substantial increase in the sickness benefit. Married minors and minors without parents will be treated as adults and will receive the full benefit of $15.50. For unmarried minors the rate, except for hospital treatment, will be a flat $10 a week. That is also quite a considerable rise. Further, an amount of $2 a week will be paid to people who are incapacitated and receive sickness benefits and who pay rent. This additional $2 a week will assist people who are temporarily incapacitated and unable to pay their rent and meet their general living expenses. 
It is hoped and believed that the higher rate of sickness benefits will encourage people to rehabilitate themselves and return to income earning employment rather than to seek invalid pensions and remain on them perhaps for lengthy periods or even permanently, as often happens. This should be of special encouragement to younger people who are suffering from a physical handicap. It should encourage them to overcome that handicap and make an effort to rehabilitate themselves and return to the independent work force. This will be of great benefit not only to the nation but also to the individuals themselves. The Minister said that rehabilitation is one of the major objectives of the Government's social services programme this year. Rehabilitation is the helping of those who can be assisted to become again independent members of society. I think it is tremendously important that we encourage people to rehabilitate themselves and become independent and regain their self respect in the community. Anybody who has had anything to do with elderly people knows just what it means for them to be helping themselves and helping others. 
The Minister has given notice that he intends to implement the slogan that the 1970s will be the decade of rehabilitation. He has taken quite a few steps along the road and he looks forward to introducing an increasing number of measures along similar lines. Approximately 134,000 Australians receive invalid pensions. A great many of them could be helped back to a degree of independence and employment. The Government's objective is to find all available ways and means of helping as many of these people as possible to enjoy a fuller and more satisfactory way of life. The increase in long term sickness benefits in particular will fulfil a long felt want. I support the Bill. In doing so I want to congratulate the Minister again on the excellent job he is doing under very difficult circumstances. 
The development of civil aviation in Australia has been spectacular in the last few years. This is only to be expected in a country of such great distances and in an apparently affluent society with much industrial development, particularly in the mineral field. Communications are tremendously important in a country as vast as Australia. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  has indicated the importance of communication by the tremendous strides that have been made in extending telephone services to remote country areas. I want to draw attention to a particular section of civil aviation, the commuter or third airline services as they are called. The third air line services supply a vital and worthwhile service for communities and make a big contribution to development. They are an aid to decentralisation. It is hard to estimate how important they are in assisting decentralisation which is so vital to Australia. Fast means of communication over vast areas and between large centres and areas of industrial activity are extremely important. Commuter airlines have already contributed much. They have fulfilled an important role and will continue to play an ever-increasing part in the development of new industries, of the inland and coastal areas of Australia. 
The Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with local government authorities, has done much in providing assistance in the construction of aerodromes in country areas. Adequate aerodromes with lighting and, in many cases, direction finding equipment, have been provided through a co-operative plan involving the Commonwealth Government, the D:part.ment of Civil Aviation and local government. However, many commuter services today are in desperate circumstances and urgently need financial assistance. This has been brought about because few of these services had sufficient capital when they commenced operations. They have not been able to control the increasing costs with which they have been faced. Costs have risen far beyond the level past which they imagined possible for them to rise and vast sums are needed to maintain even small airline services without the cost involved in servicing aircraft or in securing spare parts. Today we read of company after company either going bankrupt or being taken over by some other more successful small airline service. Even some of the more important services are running into difficulties because of the cost structure and because of the economic situation in country areas. 
I stress again that these airlines are performing a vital pioneering work in many areas. I pay a tribute to those people who have invested in and built up these commuter airline services. I commend them for their courage and vision in developing such services against tremendous odds. In my electorate is the very successful Masling 
Airlines, which is based at Cootamundra. lt is a decentralised industry which is providing much employment at Cootamundra. Up until now it has done most of the servicing of Cessna aircraft from Canberra and other areas in western and southwestern New South Wales. Not only has Masling provided an excellent service up and down the coast of New South Wales and over vast areas of southern New South Wales but he has done so without a subsidy. He has serviced many private aircraft in the inland areas. Unfortunately because of the economic situation in western New South Wales and northern Victoria many private aeroplanes are no longer flying. They are being left in hangers to accumulate dust. In the past week Masling has had to put off 9 or 10 technicians because he has not been getting work at Cootamundra. Whatever way we look at it this is a tragedy for any country airline. Masling has been a successful man with an extraordinary career ranking almost with the spectacular rise of Reg Ansett but in a later day with greater difficulties and more competition. 
When 1 first came out of the Army, Jack Masling was head mechanic in a garage at Cootamundra. He used to go out and service tractors on properties. 
Eventually, he obtained a garage of his own. He started an air charter service with a small aeroplane. From that point, he developed an airline. He developed an airline business. He had an agency for Cessnas and the servicing of Cessnas. Then, he entered the third airline service and, to date, he has been one of the most successful of those in his field and is providing a tremendous service to country people. 
Cootamundra is 240 miles from Sydney. I can leave Cootamundra and arrive in the centre of Sydney in less time than it takes persons who live at Palm Beach and Cronulla to travel there. This is the sort of service which is so important in country areas. The problem is that country airlines, even Masling, axe finding difficulties in carrying on. Masling does not receive the amount of support from the Government that is received by Trans-Australia Airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia, EastWest Airlines, Airlines of New South Wales, Connellan Airways Ltd and many others, whose services are subsidised by the Government. Commuter services receive no such support yet they provide a tremendous and really worthwhile facility. They receive no subsidy whatsoever. 
I maintain that it is vitally important to keep this industry in country areas to provide this service. Despite what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said about far too much money being spent in country areas, it is vital to spend more money in country areas. The people who have the courage to go out and to develop these areas should be encouraged. 1 would like to see commuter services given a good deal more consideration and assistance by the Government. This would be in the interests of country people in particular but also it would be in the interests of the nation if these operators received such assistance so that they might stay in business. They are not asking for anything that is at all unreasonable. 
Anybody who obtained a copy of the balance sheet for the New South Wales Railways would see that today country towns and country people are providing cheap transport for city workers. It is the produce from country areas that provides railway systems with their profits so that they might run services on suburban lines on which tremendous losses are incurred. We find that the major airlines and railway systems are being subsidised very substantially in one way or another- Yet, these people providing these very worthwhile commuter airline services throughout the nation are not receiving this type of support and are in very grave danger, unless something is done, of breaking down. I appeal to the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Government to look seriously at the very worthwhile development of third airline services to see what can be done urgently to keep them operating and to permit them to continue to develop in the way in which they have been developing so that they might serve this country as they wish to. 
In rising to speak, on the estimates of the Department of Primary Industry I first want to refer to some of the remarks of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser).  I suppose we can excuse some of the remarks made by the honourable member because he is a man who is not as young as he used to be. The honourable member engaged in flights of fancy. If the honourable member is really interested in the plight of country people he is on the wrong side of the House. 1 am quite sure that he knows and feels that this is right. This is probably an explanation of his attack on the Australian Country Party. I make the emphatic statement that we who live in country areas and are farmers understand the position. We know that country people will not be carried away by flights of fancy such as were indulged in by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. The honourable member talked about giving the country people the same standard of living as that of affluent people in city areas. The honourable member knows that there is only one way to do that. He knows, as all honourable members on the other side know, that 93 per cent of our wool is exported. What will the honourable member do about the woolgrower? The honourable member has not put up a scheme. He does not have any idea of a scheme. We cannot force the world to pay more for our wool. As I have said, the honourable member has not put any worthwhile or practical suggestion. The honourable member said that country people have to have a higher standard of living. Is he or his Party prepared to subsidise them to the tune of many millions of dollars? I am certain, from Labor's past record, that it has no intention of doing so. 
More than 80 per cent of our wheat is exported and the same situation applies there. Yet, honourable members opposite object to a home price for wheat in a country which has a high standard of living and cheap food. Well over 30  dct  cent of our meat is exported. Meat is cheaper in Australia than almost any other country, yet we continually hear com plaints from the other side about the price of meat. When Britain enters the European Common Market we will have a tremendous problem with butter, dried fruits and apples and pears. Not one member from the Opposition side has made one practical suggestion to overcome this problem. They have not told us one thing that could be done; they have not given us one sensible suggestion. 
Unquestionably the Australian Council of Trade Unions, in combination with  a  pretty weak-kneed Arbitration Commission, has contributed to rising costs in this country. The Arbitration Commission has been the greatest destroyer of the purchasing power of the pensioner, the people on superannuation, the small wage earner and of all export industry, both primary and secondary. Falling prices for our exports have been the principal reason for this. Yet, the Australian Labor Party is doing its utmost to destroy all confidence in the country areas. We see that political high priest of doom, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  continually crying destruction and misery in his own area and trying to make out that things are impossible and will be worse. The honourable member bas opposed every rural organisation. He has opposed the Australian Wheat Board. This is the man who cost farmers in his electorate hundreds of thousands of dollars by continually talking about an exaggerated black market for wheat and played right into the hands of the grain dealers. This is a fact of life. Any farmer in the honourable members electorate will tell you that it cost them hundreds of thousands  of  dollars because of a collapsed price for wheat, barley and oats. This is not only the case in the honourable member's electorate but it also applies in many other areas in Victoria and New South Wales. He is now supporting  a  party which seeks to eliminate the electorate of Riverina. This is a fact. He is  a  member of a Party which advocates one vote for one value,  a  principle which would eliminate a number  of  country seats. This is the man who has supported that policy and still supports it 
The Labor Party,  of  course, has no rural policy. We heard the honourable member for Riverina say that he would abolish wheat quotas and almost immediately we had the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  saying that he was in favour of wheat quotas. This is on record in Hansard. We have the honourable member for Riverina saying that he would pay cash for every bushel of wheat the farmers care to grow. Where he will get the money from he never tells us. Then we had the honourable member for Dawson saying that no government will pay for wheat in future until it is sold. He warned growers, and that is what the growers can expect from the Labor Party - no first payment for wheat and no guaranteed price. Those are statements that have been made consistently. From that side of the chamber almost every day we hear objections to the sale of wheat to China, the greatest market the Australian wheat grower has. Opposition members criticise and condemn the sale of wheat to China. I ask them: Will they prohibit, if by any mischance they ever get into power, the sale of wheat to China? They have repeatedly opposed subsidies to rural industries; yet the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  said that there is a need to raise the income of farmers. They believe in an equal standard of living, but only for people in the city areas. 
As I have said before, Labor has no rural policy other than to destroy confidence and. develop a feeling of despondency in the rural areas in the hope that they can win them. And what will they do the moment they win them? They will introduce one vote one value. That is what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said repeatedly and if this happens Labor will disfranchise many country electorates. Having done that it will not worry any more about the peasants - and that is what we would all be under a Labor policy, make no mistake about that. There is no question that the economic situation in the country areas is difficult indeed. This has been brought about by the many reasons that I have recounted. First of all, overseas prices for our exports have been falling continually. And we export most of our primary products. Even the secondary exporting industries are finding themselves in the same position because of these continual rises in costs mainly due to the rises in wages which are not helping the man on wages. Any working man will tell you today, if he is not being coerced or stood over by some organiser, that every wage rise recently has cost him money because the cost of living has gone up faster than his wages have. Governments can do much to control costs but they cannot control overseas prices. They are beyond Government control. 
What we need in our rural industries today is a restoration of confidence and the belief that we who understand these rural industries can do much to help ourselves. We have come through these problems before and we will come through them again. But we have been continually subjected to articles in the metropolitan Press trying to tell us that the rural industries are expendable and that they do not matter any more. In many cases this has been supported by members of the Opposition. They say: 'Let us buy cheap lamb from New Zealand, cheap butter from New Zealand and cheap wheat from Canada.' They are not concerned with the rural industries because they cannot see far enough to realise that Australia is still very largely dependent upon the rural industries. I say again that they have set out to create a spirit of misery and doom for their own political ends, and having obtained government they would then forget the farmer. They are not alone, of course. There are other people who have become affected by this spirit of pessimism which has been promoted by these prophets of doom. 
We see even our trading banks now are making it more difficult for those who are battling to carry on. We have many instances of trading banks shortening finance to people who are still in a sound position and making it impossible for them to carry on, to buy the necessary fertiliser, stock and many other things to keep their businesses in economic operation. Because of this position land values have started to drop and this has further depreciated the value of properties and reduced the borrowing capacity of the farmer. But let us look on the bright side. I am one who does not believe that the primary industries are finished. I do not believe that Labor has a chance of getting into power unless the primary industries fail to face up to the fact that they are being hoodwinked or an attempt is being made to hoodwink them. Let us take wheat. The Australian Wheat Board has made record sales overseas and at this very moment mother nature is taking a hand as she always has done. Our wheat crop this year will not be nearly as large as it has been in the past and it looks as though crops of both wheat and corn in the United States will be down. The wheat position is already righting itself, lt may take a year or two but it will right itself as it has always done. The position of wool is brighter than many would have us believe. We are not very far from bringing into force in this country a soundly based proposition to handle our wool. We will have a proper, soundly based method of handling our wool. Details are yet to be worked out. We have not dotted the i's and crossed the t's but we will certainly have a scheme that will help the wool industry and we will then proceed to cut our costs of production and to sell more wool. 
It is a fact at the moment that in Japan, for instance, the people are wearing 83 per cent of the Australian wool that she buys and the amount of wool sold to Japan is going up every year. There is no stockpiling of wool throughout the world. Even the members of the International Wool Textile Organisation admitted that the only stockpile was in their stores and that wool is going in to production. We have been taking too much notice of this story about synthetics. Synthetics have not affected the sale of wool. It is all being sold but people who are not wool growers are making the profits out of wool. It behoves us to see that we handle our product right through to the finished article. The position regarding meat is, of course, sound. The world is not necessarily hungry today as it once was but it is short of adequate nourishment. The world needs protein and right on our door step we have the greatest potential market this world has ever seen - millions of people with a need for protein more than anything else. These markets need to be developed and they are being developed. Right in my own home town we have an industry, Conkeys Meat Works, which is exporting lamb by air to many parts of the world. Fresh lamb is on sale in the shops in Canada during Canada's winter within 40 hours of it being slaughtered in Cootamundra. Fresh meat is being taken by Qantas jets to the Middle East. Fresh meat is available in Bahrein, Saudi Arabia and other places overseas and this is a market that can and will be developed. So there is a tremen dous future for the rural industries provided that we do not allow the prophets of doom to destroy us before we are able to get off the ground and reorganise so many of our industries. 
There are many millions of people in Asia and in South America who want food. They want wool and they want meat in particular. But I say again that what we need is a restoration of confidence and we need men with courage and foresight. We do not need those who would destroy these industries by trying to destroy the courage and the wherewithal that those who have made these industries have given to us over the years. Australia has certainly ridden on the back not only of the sheep but of all her primary industries for many years and the great primary industries are still and will be for many years to come the backbone of this country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! There are too many interjections. 
I can understand the Opposition getting upset because I have told them a few home truths. I have seen members of the Opposition moving around the country electorates doing everything they can to destroy confidence. I have seen them moving around and talking of black markets and bringing down the price of wheat. I have seen them moving around and talking in a way that has made people try to sell their properties at a time when they should be doing their utmost to develop them. I am not one who sees an allgloomy picture. I see a difficult time ahead and the people who are best able to guide the primary industries out of their problems are those who really understand the primary industries, are familiar with the problems and have at least some of the answers. No answers have ever come from any members of the Opposition. 
In the brief time available to me it is impossible to deal with the very great question of New Guinea. I shall make a few brief comments that I think are relevant to the question. I claim to have some knowledge of New Guinea, having served there during the war and having been back on a number of occasions, including 3 visits as a representative of the Government at Anzac Day services. On each of these occasions 1 spent some time in New Guinea and I got to know quite a number of people up there - indigenous and European - in the Administration,, in business, on the plantations and on the missions. Each time I go back to New Guinea I am tremendously impressed with the progress that is being made. Such progress is not easy. Roads are being built in difficult places, airstrips are being built and developments are taking place in housing, social services and all the other amenities that are so necessary for these people. 
It is very easy, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has done, to pick out a few things which are not quite as good as we would wish. Money is a great problem. As the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  has said, there are many areas with which we are not satisfied. It is quite ridiculous to compare, as he did, the different standards of wages and conditions. First of all, that country has not the money to pay the same salaries to the indigenous people as it pays to the expatriates. The standard of living is very much lower. Anybody who has spent much time up there knows that the efficiency of these people just does not match the efficiency of the expatriates. In time no doubt it will. It has been said by many people who have lived there for many years and who know the native population that you can train and educate these people but you cannot give them background and you cannot give them responsibility. They must have experience before they gain these things. That is one of the great problems that face us. 
It is interesting to read the report of the United Nations on previous visits and then the report on the latest visit. All honourable members know the very different trend, the very different atmosphere and the very different story of the various meetings that the United Nations mission held with the native people throughout New Guinea, in the highlands, down on the coastal areas and over on the Gazelle Peninsula. They have expressed their appreciation and admiration for the tremendous work that has been done. Most of the indigenous people who were questioned at these meetings said that they are far from ready for independence. Many of them have expressed the desire for some form of growing home rule, but they emphasise over and over again on every occasion that first of all they require education. They require fitting to carry on the tasks that will be theirs in this new, developing nation. They need education not only in the academic field but in the manual skills. Perhaps this is where we have the greatest job to do. 
One thing that really shocked me when I went up to New Guinea last Anzac Day was the bitter criticism of the statement of the Leader of the Opposition. I expected that criticism when I went up, knowing New Guinea and knowing the uninformed and irresponsible statements that the Leader of the Opposition makes. I knew that he had made these dictatorial statements before he went there. He did not go there to learn and to understand the problems but he went there to try to gain some political kudos. I heard criticism here at home too, but it was not so severe or universal as that which I heard in the Territory. This criticism came from many, many areas within the community, lt came nol only from indigenous members of the Administration but from the missions, the business people and almost every section of the community - and it was volunteered. This blatant attempt - it could not have been anything else - by the Leader of the Opposition to gain political advantage at home backfired both here and in New Guinea. But the great tragedy is that it has done a lot of damage in New Guinea. It has destroyed a lot of confidence not only in the native people but in the Administration. 
The honourable member has not been to New Guinea and would not know. Many other people also have not been there. The actions of the Leader of the Opposition were condemned by many able people as a blatant attempt to stir up trouble between the Administration and the people of New Guinea for the sole purpose of upsetting and embarrassing this Government.  His  support of the Mataungan extremists drew the most bitter criticism of all. The Mataungans are considered in many areas as a group of irresponsible law breakers who have a vested interest in breaking the law. 
There are many educated and cultured people in New Guinea. 1 have met very able educationists. There are some people in the Department of Law who are very able indeed. But the cultured and educated people are in the great minority. They are most emphatic that the Territory has a long way to go before it will be ready for self government. The Territory has a great need to build up an export earning capacity. It also has a need for better education. Much has been done in the field of education. Those of us who have seen the teachers college at Goroka know just how excellent a job is being done in this field by the Administration and the Australian Government. I would say that the teachers college in Goroka, for its size - it is quite a large one - is equal to anything here in Australia in its building, setting, equipment, staffing and administration. It is expanding year by year and turning out trained and able young people who will do a tremendous job. 
But perhaps there is an even greater need in New Guinea for people who have not necessarily been trained in the academic field. Far too many of those 'being turned out by the high schools find that no jobs are available. There are not a great many jobs for white collar workers outside the government departments, but there is a great need for skilled artisans, technicians and tradesmen. I think that perhaps in this field there is even more to be done. There is a need for engineers, mechanics, plant operators, carpenters and bricklayers. The local people do these jobs particularly well. They seem to be peculiarly fitted to do skilled work with their hands. 
There has been tremendous development in the agricultural field. Tea, a comparatively new crop, has been tremendously successful in the Highlands. The local farmers are being educated and assisted by the expatriates who have land up there and by some who are not expatriates but are second generation Australians in the Territory. These people have helped the indigenous people surrounding them in their attempts to farm better and to raise their! standards of living. Coffee, of course, has been the backbone of the rural industries^ particularly in the Highlands. We find large cattle ventures up there. While I was! up there one indigenous cattleman informed me that he bad received a $30,000 grant from the New Guinea Development Bank to develop his enterprise. 
A tremendous lot of work is being done and there is a tremendous number of successful indigenous people. In the Highlands particularly one can see more new trucks and utilities, principally Japanese, being driven by native people than one can see driven in some of our areas down here. I found in most areas a particularly good feeling between the Europeans who have been there for some time and who consider themselves Territorians and the native people. This is quite contrary to what our Press would very often like us to believe. I think of the tremendous help that has been given by these people who have made the Territory their home. 1 think of the families like the Leahy and  Collins families  who went up there many years ago. I think also of Bill Driver, with whom 1 stayed at Milne Bay, where T served during the war. 
Many of these people have started new enterprises, coffee and tea plantations, coffee and tea factories, cocoa ventures, cattle ventures, pig ventures and trading centres. They have taken into their businesses a great many indigenous people as partners. They have indigenous people running many of their stores and they have a tremendous respect and regard for these people. I have been in the homes of these people and I have seen them welcome into their homes over and over again an educated indigenous person as a complete equal. One of them said to me: 'You would not ask a hobo into your home. You do not expect us to bring the savage into our drawing room.' But they bring into their homes those natives who have been educated and are cultured. Many indigenous people have 2 and sometimes 3 generations of education behind them. 
This is the picture that is seldom painted for Australians because seldom have sufficient numbers of our own people gone up there and taken an interest. Far too often those who have gone up there have criticised and condemned before they have even looked at the place. I am very pleased to see that Australians generally today are showing a much greater interest in New Guinea than ever before, because we as a nation have a tremendous responsibility to develop New Guinea and to bring its people along the road to a better way of life. A fact of which every Australian should be extremely conscious is that what we do in New Guinea is being watched by every Asian, and it is tremendously important that we do the right thing and do not cause trouble between the Administration and the people or between the Government and the people. Asia will judge us very largely on our actions and our success or failure in New Guinea. 
There are very many different ethnic groups in New Guinea. It is not a nation yet. We are hoping that some day, with our guidance, it will move further along the road towards nationhood. The people in the Highlands are very different to the people on the coast. The people in the Highlands are hard working people who have not long been under the influence of civilisation but who in many cases are much better off financially than those on the coast. These are conservative people - mostly farmers who have developed the land and who have a stake in the country, in Rabaul and the Gazelle Peninsula we find the Tolai people, who have been pretty progressive and who have been in contact with European civilisation for many generations. They are successful farmers, business men and traders. These people are generally much better off than those on the mainland. But they have problems because they are paying heavy taxes and are not very happy about paying taxes for the development of people on the mainland, for whom they do not have a great deal of sympathy. On Bougainville all the people expect to become millionaires and they do not want to contribute some of their wealth. Is that not so human? lt happens down here. These are the problems we face in the Territory. 
As I said before, the Territory does not earn very much export income, and this is a great problem. Many an educated and sophisticated native has asked me where the Territory would get iiic money if ii received independence tomorrow. They ask where it will get the $100m and more that Australia pours into the Territory each year. The great majority of the indigenous people are emphatic in their statements that they are not ready for self government. They would like some form of home rule with the assistance and guidance of the Australian Administration. There is a small section of militants, aided, abetted aud encouraged by a few left wing people from down here and up there, who are trying to force self government before its time. One of the saddest spectacles we have seen lately was the bringing of John Kaputin down here to be exploited by an extremist group. Those who saw him questioned on television must have felt extremely embarrassed and extremely ashamed of Australians who would take advantage of such a man and put him in that position where he showed how difficult it was for him to accept our standards and to know what he was really talking about. 1 can think of no more despicable or disloyal action than to exploit a principally primitive unsophisticated native people for purely politically ends, ignoring facts and not even caring what happens to them and their future. I say, as one of our leading administrators up there said, that we have brought these people a long way along the road towards a better way of life. It could all be destroyed overnight by irresponsible statements such as the statements that have been made by the Leader of the Opposition and other left wing people who have gone up there. We could have another Biafra overnight. These are the words of the people who have lived up there all their lives and served these people. I say that we have a tremendous responsibility. It behoves every loyal Australian to look closely at New Guinea to see what is happening there and to see that we do the right thing by the people of New Guinea because our future is dependent upon what we do now. 
Rising to speak in support of the estimates of the Department of Immigration I first of all want to pay a tribute to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch).  We have had many very good Ministers for Immigration but the present Minister has brought drive and enthusiasm to this portfolio. This, together with the hard work of his Department, augurs well for the future of our immigration policy. I would also like to pay a tribute to his departmental officers. As one who has been associated with immigration ever since I came into the Parliament I pay a tribute to the tremendous job they do and their keenness to co-operate with honourable members irrespective of party affiliations in every way and on every occasion. Undoubtedly Australia's record in the field of immigration is a very proud one. It compares more than favourably with the immigration records of other nations. It has been extraordinarily successful when we consider the number of settlers who have come here over the comparatively short period of some 25 years, the different ethnic origins, and the different areas they have come from in different civilisations in many parts of Europe and elsewhere. It is because of our efficient immigration policy and the thoroughness with which we have attempted to assimilate these people that the great majority of them have become very good Australians. They have become Australians in habit, outlook, thinking and in their loyalty to Australia. This is a remarkable thing. We have very few pockets of national feeling among settlers from other countries. We have some but when we consider the number who have come here in relation to our own comparatively small population the record is remarkable. 
In the early years we had the problem of the .war .refugees when it was_npt .possible to screen our migrants in the way it is possible to screen them today. Despite this, we have been remarkably free of undesirable migrants. There is no question that they have enriched our culture in many ways. They have brought much to us from the more ancient cultures of Europe and they have broadened our outlook in an invaluable way. Isolated as we are from European civilisation in many ways - by distance in the past - it has been of tremendous benefit to us to bring these people here from areas which have a broader and perhaps more tolerant attitude. This has done much for the Australian attitude to other people, to the Aus tralian tolerance of other people and to our understanding. They have brought with them many skills, new trades and a great deal of knowledge. Not only have they been invaluable in the work they have been able to do with their trained skills and in the trades but they have also created much employment in Australia. This, of course, has created the problem we are faced with today. We have a considerable degree of inflation and rising costs. This situation has not been caused by the inflow of migrants alone, but undoubtedly this has had an effect. 
Migrants must be fed, clothed mid have housing provided for them. They must be educated. We must train the younger ones and retrain many of the older ones. We require training in many more skills and the pressure on our education system is attributable largely to the tremendous intake of migrants and migrant families. Wc require more hospitals, universities, transport and all the other things that go to make up our civilisation as we know it. There have been accusations, as I have said before, that our immigration policy perhaps has aggravated unduly the trend towards inflation and rising costs, but we must balance that against what we have gained. One of the areas of complaint has been from a very small section of primary producers who feel that migrants have contributed, in part at least, to the rising costs. Those primary producers must remember that it is tremendously important that we populate Australia. It was one of our early Prime Ministers, Billy Hughes I think, who said: 'Populate or perish.' I believe that still remains, to a large extent, true. 
Australia is surely the greatest prize in the world today. If the Japanese had realised just how rich our potential was they would not have come down the Malayan Peninsula but would have come straight here. Australia is a tremendously rich country, far richer than it was 25 years ago. We did not know of our mineral wealth, we had not developed our industrial potential and we certainly had no idea of our agricultural potential in those days. It was the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  who said that history has shown that no nation as richly endowed as Australia can ever hope to survive unless it is capable of defending itself. So we must have people if we are to survive. We must have people if we are to remain an economically viable community in this competitive world. We must have people who believe in free enterprise if we are to maintain this nation of free enterprise and independence. We want people who believe in that way of life. We must have people with a political philosophy opposed to the all destroying policy of Communism. I do not suppose that ever before in our history was there a greater need for people to realise the dangers of Communism and Socialism. Nobody realises the dangers more than those who have suffered so badly under Communism. These people have seen what it means, and those of our own people who play with it here should talk to those who have endured it and they may have good cause to think again. The people, even in high places in Australia, who are prepared to play with Communism and weaken our defences ought to take the opportunity of talking to some of the migrants who have been through all this in Europe and they may  -  I hope will- change their opinions completely. 
Our immigration programme has been exceedingly successful, principally because we have moved with the times. We have not been content to stay with the policy that we introduced 25 years ago. We have changed it and adapted it to the changing problems and changing conditions. We have learned by our mistakes. Today we have an army of highly trained officers both here and overseas. 1 draw attention to the tremendous advantage of bringing our trained officers back regularly from overseas posts and sending other departmental officers from here overseas. This is not done in all our departments, but it does give us a constant and up to date contact with the places from which we are drawing the people we hope will become worthy Australians. I pay a tribute to those officers who, under the greatest difficulty, do a tremendous job. The type and calibre of the migrants who have come here are a standing monument to the excellence of our overseas officers and to the thoroughness of their attempts to secure the best people who will become assimilated and integrated in our community. 
We have built better accommodation for our migrants. Many of us remember what the accommodation was like in the days of the refugees when conditions were pretty shocking, although still a lot better than in the concentration camps. We must not forget that, but we have progressed a long way from those days when we hastily erected hostels to take and shelter these people. Today we have improved tremendously our hostel accommodation. We are providing flats for our migrants so that they can live here under better conditions as soon as they are able to get jobs. Our educational programme both for adults and children has developed along satisfactory lines. Certainly there is much to be done but we have come a tremendous distance along the road. In our education programme we have provided broadcast programmes for migrants, special lessons in factories and places of work, crash courses in English for adult migrants so thai they are more quickly able to fit into the community and, perhaps most important of all, we have introduced English training programmes for migrant children in our schools so that they are not disadvantaged in their training. It is true that it is the children who become Australian most quickly. This, in itself, brings a problem because the children become Australian almost overnight and the parents sometimes feel a little resentful of it. 
Again, we have gone a long way along the road in recognising the skills and qualifications of migrants. Despite resistance from a number of areas and a number of institutions we have been able to persuade many institutes, organisations and trade unions to accept the qualifications of migrants. Our officers are expert at translating the qualifications gained overseas into their equivalent in Australia. This is very important work. As I said, the whole of our immigration programme has been aimed increasingly at making it possible for all the people we are bringing to Australia to become Australians as quickly as possible, to he assimilated and integrated into the community. We need people urgently. As I said, we need them for defence purposes. We need them to develop this vast continent. We need them to increase output of industry in order to make industries viable. We also need migrants to develop our home market. Here again I say to our primary producers: The best market you can possibly have is your home market'. The man who is receiving a salary or wages and is enjoying a decent standard of living in Australia is the best market which the Australian primary producer could ever hope to have. 
Our immigration policy is a story of increasing success. We have built up a dynamic young nation in this outpost of European civilisation. We need these people if we are going to survive. We need them to help us fulfil that important task which I believe is ours - to give a lead to many millions of people in Asia who are looking for a better way of life. People in this part of Asia are looking increasingly to Australia for a lead in this direction. I support the proposed expenditure for the Department of Immigration. I commend the Minister and the Department for the forward looking and very successful policy which they have pursued in the past and which f am confident they will pursue in the future. 
In rising to speak to the estimates for the Department of Labour and National Service, I wish to confine my remarks to one section of the Department's responsibilities; that is, national service. I want to make a very strong plea to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and the Government to consider very seriously the desirability of introducing universal national service. This is something that, the people of this country are prepared to accept. I am quite certain that the great majority of the people in this country would prefer universal national service to our present system. I was one who accepted the present ballot system as being the only answer initially when we did not have the necessary instructors, equipment or accommodation for our young men. 
1 would like to see universal national service. Today we. have too many people sabotaging our national servicemen and our national effort, including members of the Opposition and particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  1 would like to see every young man do national service - military training. I believe that it is possible for him to do at least 6 months of intensive training in camp. He would be doing concentrated training. 1 would make no exceptions at all. 
There are plenty of jobs for the noncombatant. There are plenty of jobs for* the conscientious objector. He could do some form of national service. Put him in the cookhouse or let him dig latrines if he is not prepared to do anything else. I am certain that most of the conscientious objectors would then quickly change their minds. There are a few genuine ones, I agree, but not nearly as many as members of the Opposition would like us to believe. As I said earlier in the piece, I accepted the need for the ballot system initially, but I do not believe we are justified in carrying it on without making a serious attempt to study the possibility of introducing compulsory universal national service. I anr convinced that if we did have universal national service we would have so many, volunteers for the permanent Army that we would not need a ballot system. 
I would like to. It is a fact of life that in an emergency every able bodied man in this country would have to carry arms. To send untrained men into battle is little short of murder. I have seen it happen. I have seen young men, little more than boys, sent into action against trained opponents. I say that this is little short of murder. Six months training at least would give them the basic principles of discipline and the ability to handle their weapons. It would not take very much longer to knock a man into shape. It might even make men out of members of the Opposition who are so voluble, if they had 6 months of Army training. I doubt it. I do not know whether it would be possible to make men out of some of them at all. 
Wc have been told at times that cost is the great problem. In this affluent society I do not accept cost as being an adequate excuse for not attempting at least to look at the possibility of introducing compulsory national service. Surely cost is not of great consequence when the future of this nation is at stake. Another problem that has been raised is the shortage of. instructors. We have had servicemen in Vietnam, Malaysia and other areas of Army service sufficiently long now to provide at least a nucleus of trained instructors which could quickly be built up to give adequate instruction to our young men for 6 months in each age group. Another problem mentioned was accommodation. I do not believe that the young men of today are any less hardy than their fathers or their grandfathers were. I can remember going into camp and sleeping on a straw palliasse in a tent. I was lucky to get some straw. I do not think it would hurt our young men today, lt might do them quite a lot of good. 
I believe that all these things are not an adequate argument when the safety of the nation is at stake. We are not strong enough to defend ourselves. I refer honourable members to the statement of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  that history has proved over and over again that a rich nation .without defence cannot remain free. We cannot expect to remain free unless we are prepared to play our part. We cannot expect our allies to come to our aid in an emergency unless we are prepared - and not only prepared but able - to play our part. Some of our enemies who were very close to our shores not so many years ago would walk into this country tomorrow if they thought they could get away with it. Honourable members should not kid themselves that they would not. Do not think that the Japanese have any great reason to love this country. As I said in an earlier debate tonight, if they had realised how valuable this country is, if they had realised the mineral wealth we have,, if they had realised the industrial potential and the rural wealth we have, they would not have come down the Malayan Peninsula but would have come straight here. 
If we are going to defend this country then we must be prepared. I have nothing but disgust for the young man who is not prepared to learn to bear arms so that in an emergency he is able to effectively defend this country. I have no respect for the man who is not prepared to get up and fight. Six months in the Army would do the honourable member opposite, who is interjecting, the world of good, as it would a lot of other young fellows. It is not much use saying that in an emergency they will get up and shoulder arms and fight unless they are trained, equipped and able. We can easily see those who are not prepared to get up and defend the country by their interjections here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - There is no substance to the point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I do not uphold the point of order and the honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. 
I was not referring to the honourable member who has a very good war record. Would that there were more on the Opposition side who had the same. I am critical of those who are not prepared to do what that man did. The deterioration of our national character is indicated by the very fact that the Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition was prepared to get up in this chamber and call on our troops to mutiny. 
This is an indication. It would not have been accepted a few years ago. He would have been drummed out of the country if he had done that sort of thing. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
Those who saw the Leader of the Opposition and those who heard him in the House-- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I rule that the honourable member for Hume is in order. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The point of order is not upheld. 
That the ruling be dissented from.  (The honourable member, for Grayndler having submitted in writing his objection to the ruling.) 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! No debate on this motion is allowed in the Committee stage. 1 now put the motion. 
Question put: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry tell the House what effect he believes the introduction of a 35-hour week would have on rural industries? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask: Has a case for the introduction of a 35-hour week been commenced in the arbitration court? Can the Commonwealth assist in the hearing by providing evidence in the national interest and in the long term interest of wage earners generally? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry give the House a reasonably accurate estimate of the additional costs of producing a bushel of wheat should a 35-hour working week be introduced? Has the Minister seen a statement by the honourable member for Dawson which indicates that the cost would be 2ic per bushel? Does the Minister believe that this extraordinary statement was made by the honourable member for Dawson to try to get the Labor Party off the hook of its own making by supporting the introduction of a 35-hour week? 
-Every decent Australian wants to see our elderly citizens and those who cannot look after themselves better provided for. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  who 1 know has always taken a very great interest in pensioners. But there are some honourable members on the other side of the House who take every opportunity to use the case of the pensioners, the farmers or whoever is in distress as a vehicle for airing their politics and gaining political advantage. I refer particularly to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  When a party whose leader objects to the feather bedding of pensioners - there is no question that he made a statement to this effect - brings forward a matter of public importance such as this, we realise the hypocrisy of the whole proceedings. I am quite sure that he cares less for the pensioners than he does for even the people of Papua and New Guinea, and he cares little for them other than when he is using them as a vehicle for embarrassing this Government. 
I think that we should stop and ask ourselves who are the greatest enemies of the pensioners at the present time. The Government is not satisfied with the position of pensioners. I know that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is not satisfied. Many of us on this side would like to see a great deal more done, but it is not of much use raising pensions when people are deliberately eroding the purchasing power of pensions. Those who suffer most from the erosion of purchasing power are the superannuitants, pensioners and people on small wages, particularly the family man. Who are the main cause of their purchasing power being eroded? It is the Leader of the Opposition and his managing director,  Mr Hawke.  They have deliberately set out to force up the cost of living and to make the lot of the pensioner worse than it ever was before. It is quite obvious, and always has been obvious, that the left wing Socialist lives on misery and want in the community, and if he can create this feeling and position of want it is all to" his advantage. 
Pensions are not adequate, as I said before. I said this in my speech on the Budget also. The Minister himself said that he would like to see them raised considerably. In the last Budget they were raised by an amount commensurate with increases in cost of living, but there has been quite a definite erosion of their value since. But even though the problem at the moment is desperate and serious, this Government has not taken the first action that a Labor government would take, that is, to reduce pensions. That was the first thing that a previous Labor government did: but the last thing this Government will do will be to reduce pensions. It will not do as the Chifley Government did and take it from those who have the least. 
I am not saying that Australian pensioners have all that they should have, but they are amongst the best supported pensioners in the world, because when determining the value of a pension we have to take into account not only the amount of the pension but also all the side benefits. A pensioner may own a house, a car and personal effects without limit. He may also have a considerable sum of money in the bank and earn up to $17 a week without his pension being affected. A married couple who are pensioners may earn up to $72 a week and own property up to a value of $42,000 before they lose their pension. I repeat that pensioners in Australia are better off than pensioners in most other places throughout the world. Again I say that this does not mean that we are satisfied. 
In addition to their base pension pensioners also receive hospital and medical benefits that were introduced by this Government. This Government has introduced nursing home assistance, personal care assistance and supplementary rent assistance. It must be remembered that 70 per cent of age pensioners live in homes on which nothing is owing and have no rent to pay. They get. concessions on telegrams and radio and television charges besides taxation concessions. These are all the side benefits they receive from the Federal Government. In addition State Governments give benefits to pensioners in the fields of housing, dental and .optical treatment and reduced rates for electricity and gas. Pensioners also get travel allowances from both Federal and State governments, and they get legal aid. These are some of the things brought in by this Government, and they have all helped the position of the pensioner, but this is very largely forgotten. 
Then we come to the benefits provided by local government authorities. In most areas pensioners get rate concessions from these authorities. They also have the benefit of meals on wheels and receive home care assistance. Voluntary organisations - I know they do this in my area and I am quite sure they do it in many other areas - provide benefits in kind. For example, in winter time they provide firewood for pensioners. They provide outings and entertainment also. So when we look at pensions as a means of support there are very many other things we have to take into account. 
I am still not saying that pensions are adequate. This is what I want to stress. The Government realises this. But I want to stress very firmly that the erosion of purchasing power is by far the greatest enemy of the pensioner and the superannuitant, and- this has been promoted -and aggravated by too many members of the Opposition. This shows that they are not consistent and not genuine, although perhaps 1 should say that there are some genuine people on the other side. 
The means test has been criticised very severely, particularly by Opposition members. But what is the effect of the means test? We heard the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  quote the number of pensions that are paid and the amount of money that is being spent. Because we have a means test we are able to distribute that money more effectively to those in greatest need. If we did not have a means test we would have to increase the staff of the Department of Social Services tremendously at very great cost. The money would be distributed widely - much would certainly be collected in tax again - but it would not go to the areas of greatest need, lt would put a terrific burden on the wage earner if we tried to provide pensions for all by abolishing the means test. The money would be spread more thinly. 
Money payments bear little relationship to the standard of living in this country, and costs are much lower than they might appear to be. We have to take into consideration also that food values and the cost of many things are much lower in Australia than they are in other countries. Honourable members have quoted the salaries paid in other countries. I have here a list showing the number of minutes that an ordinary factory worker has to work to buy certain articles. In Melbourne, to buy 1 lb of bread, he works 4 minutes; in New York he works 7 minutes; and in Moscow, in a Socialist state, he works 13 minutes. For  1  lb of beef he works 21 minutes in Melbourne, 25 minutes in New York and 70 minutes in Moscow. For I lb of butter he works 18 minutes in Melbourne, 20 minutes in New York and 120 minutes in a Socialist state. To buy a suit a man has to work 33 hours in Melbourne, 13 hours in New York and 200 hours in Moscow. I could give, the comparison for a lot more items. 
When we are considering the value of pensions we have to take into account the value of things that pensioners must have and what their money will purchase. We want lo see a better deal for pensioners, but we first want to see that exploiters of the purchasing power of pensions are curbed, because it is not of much use increasing pensions unless we can make the purchasing power of the pensioners, the superannuitant and the man on low wages more effective. We have to name and do something about those who are the greatest enemies of the pensioner. I have already named those who I think are the greatest offenders. Those on the other side and some of their supporters and those who direct them, I repeat, are the greatest cause of the erosion of pensions. 
This Government is aware of the problems of pensioners and is determined to do something effective for them. I can assure the House that something will be done. I know that the Minister is an extremely sympathetic and keen man. I know that he has the great majority of the members on this side strongly supporting him. 1 believe that the matter of public importance brought forward today by the honourable member for Oxley was brought forward for the sole reason of trying to embarrass this Government and without caring a damn for the pensioners. 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of the tremendous wave of criticism and disgust which is sweeping the nation as a result of the nature of a number of speeches made by certain honourable members of the Opposition during the recent censorship debate? Is be of the opinion that the honourable members who made these disgusting speeches are typical  of  the intrusion of the new left into the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party? 
As the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has already pointed out this proposal for a discussion of a matter of urgency has been based on wrong premises altogether. This is not unusual with Opposition urgency discussions; Opposition members propose a matter for discussion and then talk about everything but the subject in question. The Opposition has accused the Government of failing to act on the deficiencies shown in this nationwide survey on education, but the survey is something which so far Opposition speakers have not dealt with in any detail. This survey was set up by the States, in conjunction with the Commonwealth, when they realised the need for some assessment of the varied needs of education throughout the Commonwealth. The survey was undertaken to give a complete picture of the needs of education in many fields over a 5 year period. Although it was initiated by the States the Federal Government has played a very active part in conducting the survey, which has come up with the answer that the States expect their expenditure on education to rise at around 10 per cent a year, lt is estimated that an amount of 3 1,400m will be needed to close the gap and the States, as usual, expect to get that amount from the Commonwealth. If the States cannot provide enough money then no matter how much more money the Commonwealth provides the States still come back to the Commonwealth for any additional money they need. I think we must remember that education is a State responsibility. This is not something that the Commonwealth has said; this is what the States have said. They are very jealous of their responsibility for education. Despite the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that there should be a survey conducted by the Commonwealth, the fact is that the Stales wanted to conduct their own surveys and this is what has been done, and they have now come together with the Commonwealth Government in an attempt to assess the needs of the future. This is very different from the centralist policies which the Opposition would attempt to put into practice. There is no question that the Commonwealth Government is carrying out the promises made by the former Prime Minister in his policy speech that everything possible would be done in the field of education. It is a fact, of course, that at this moment the States have not been able to enumerate the fields in which are their most urgent need for expenditure. 
Obviously these must be pinpointed before we can proceed to spend the vast sums of money that are obviously required in education. 
The Leader of the Opposition says: 'We should spend the money'. Other Opposition speakers have said that we should spend the money. Honourable members know of the proposals for free education, free hospitals and free everything else, but members of the Opposition can never answer the question: Who pays? Even the man in the street asks who is going to pay, and he is not the fool that I think sometimes the Leader of the Opposition and many other speakers from that side of the House take him to be. I say that the States still do not know where their most urgent needs lie, and the Federal Government has still been unable to obtain details of this. There is a very real problem in education and we know that the States are not able to raise the money that they would like to spend on education but we also know that there is today a tremendous shortage of material and labour, and as the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  has pointed out - I think the Minister also referred to it - for this very reason the States have been unable to spend a lot of the money that has been made available to them. We know also that, particularly in relation to New South Wales, there is a tremendous backlog to be caught up with due to the complete lack of planning by the previous Labor Government when no preparations whatsoever were made, in buildings, equipment or the training of teachers, for the introduction of the Wyndham scheme. Teachers who are members of this House know only too well that we cannot train teachers overnight. The Opposition even objects to the use of teachers who are not fully trained. They seem to think that a situation of no teachers at all is better than having some who are not fully trained. To provide adequate training and to provide buildings and equipment poses a tremendous problem when we realise that so many more children than formerly are going on to higher education. I think, however, that there has been a levelling out recently following a sharp increase in the number of children going on to secondary and tertiary education. I have come to this conclusion after talking to school principals in my electorate. Many children decided over the past few years that they wanted to go on. But now this rising tendency is levelling out. I believe that the demands may not be as heavy as we first thought. 
The Federal Government has entered into the field of education in a very real way. It is the first government to institute or promote research into the needs of education in all fields. It has provided a tremendous amount of money for the training of many adult people who have found that because of technological advances in industry they have now become superfluous and who are looking for training in other jobs, lt is providing many millions of dollars for technical skills and technical education. Of course we know that it is providing an increasing amount of money for State controlled teachers colleges, education research and vocational schemes, to which I have already referred. It is providing money even for such things as education in marine science because this has a very important place in employment and is a field in which additional education is required. A new field that has developed only in the last few years is pre-school education. This requires vast sums of money. The Federal Government is contributing not only to the capital expenditure but to the running costs of preschools. 
Grants have been made by the Commonwealth for school libraries. One of the previous speakers referred to the need for libraries. We recognise the need for libraries, and the Commonwealth Government asked the State Ministers where they would like this money spent and, whether they were right or not. The State Departments of Education said that they would prefer the money to be spent in the secondary field. I know from speaking to many of the principals of primary schools in my electorate that they feel that maybe this was not quite the right decision, but that was the recommendation of the State Departments of Education. 
Let us not forget the tremendous aid that the Commonwealth has provided to independent schools. This is extremely important from an economic point of view apart from anything else because, without the Commonwealth's very great contribution of buildings, equipment and staff, the problems of public education would be very much greater indeed. These are just a few of the areas in which the Federal Government has shown an ever increasing interest and a completely new approach to education. Colleges of advanced education, grants to universities, Commonwealth scholarships and many other fields which were never thought to be the responsibility of the Commonwealth have now become the subject of consideration by the Federal Government. 
This Government is determined, as the former Prime Minister promised, to do all it can to bring up to date as quickly as humanly possible the fulfilment of the needs of the young people in this growing and developing community. We have to keep in mind that education covers a wider field than mere tertiary education. Education means fitting a man to play his part in his chosen life work, whatever that may be, or training him in skills for any other occupation. I have always believed it is true that very few people in this world cannot do something a little better than the average. Education aims to help a person develop his particular talent so that he may enjoy that to which he is entitled - a worthwhile life of service, a life that gives him satisfaction, a happy and complete life. Unless education provides for fulfilment of personal achievement and the enjoyment of a full life, it has fallen down. It has been the aim of this Government, in conjunction with the States, to educate people to enable them to live this kind of life. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 have a personal explanation to make. 
Yes. It was I who interjected. I would not like the honourable member for Moore to be blamed for it. I asked the honourable member for Riverina what he did about his kangaroos. 
 I apologise. 
In rising to support this Bill I wish firstly to comment on a few of the remarks which were made by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  I think it is significant although very disturbing to note that the honourable member for Kingston is a medical practitioner. He said that he would like to tear up the pensioner medical scheme cards. Thank Goc! all doctors do not adopt that attitude. In commenting on the problems of wool growers he has shown his colossal ignorance of their plight. He is completely uninformed on the subject.  His  reference to them was completely ridiculous. I think it would have been better if he had compared pensions with the salaries of doctors rather than the earnings of wool growers. I remind the honourable member that doctors, dentists and chemists are among the largest investors in this country. There are many sections of the community which could be better compared with the position of pensioners than the wool growing section. Many wool growers today are not even getting the amount the pensioners receive; in. fact, they are receiving far below it. 
I wish to quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  He said: 
The Bill gives effect to the announcement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 15th 
March that an immediate increase would be granted in pensions now being paid at maximum rates, with similar increases for certain other benefits. 
He went on to say that an across the board increase would be granted to widows and deserted wives and people in receipt of the sheltered employment and rehabilitation allowances as well as long term sickness benefits. I wish to reply to some of the remarks which were made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  in relation to the widow's pension. I wish to run through the list of payments to widows with children over the last few years. The rate being paid in 1949 was $4.75 a week. If that amount is brought up to present day figures it would represent about $1 1.54 a week. There was no allowance whatsoever for children in 1949. In 1956 the Liberal-Country Party Government increased the rate to $8.50 per week which included $1 per week for second and subsequent children. In 1958 supplementary assistance was introduced. In 1963 the rate had risen to $18 per week which included the mothers allowance of $4 a week and $1.50 for the first child. An additional pension was introduced for student children aged, from 16 to 18 years. This is typical of the improvements this Government has provided since it came into office. In 1965 supplementary assistance was increased to $2 per week and the age for student children was extended to 21 years. In 196S the additional pension for children was increased to $2.50 for all children, giving a total pension of $24 per week. At that time a widows training scheme was introduced. All of these benefits for widows have cost the Government a lot of money. 
In 1969 the additional pension for second and subsequent children was increased to S3. 50 per week. The mothers allowance was increased from $4 to $6 where the child was under 6 or an invalid. In 1970 the rate for a widow with 2 children, if one was under 6, and with supplementary assistance included had risen to $29.50. In 1971 under this Bill that amount has increased to $30 a week. 
The means test has been eased in the meantime and many other benefits have been provided as well. This Bill supports the Government's undertaking to continue to increase pensions. This will be a preliminary increase, and the Government has undertaken that there will be a fundamental review of all social service and related pensions. This is in line with the consistent policy of this Government and previous governments from this side of the House and in direct contrast to the policy of the Australian Labor Party. It is at stark variance with the policy of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who objected to further assisting pensioners whom he considered had already been feather bedded. The Leader of the Opposition believes - I think erroneously - that he has the support of the great majority of pensioners. I am sure that he has not because many pensioners realise that this Government has been doing its utmost to assist them. We know that the Leader of the Opposition would rather promise the world to the middle income groups in an attempt to get them to support him because his main aim is to become Prime Minister. I think it is much more likely to be  Mr Hawke  who becomes Prime Minister if we are ever unfortunate enough to have a Labor government in the next few years. 
Pensioners of all classes have been affected by the machinations of  Mr Hawke.  I do not exclude from this situation big business which has been paying over award payments, thus increasing the cost of living. The Government has been continually increasing pension rates to try to cope with the cost of living, .and it has kept ahead of the cost of living up to this time. Surely the worst enemy of pensioners, people on superannuation, salaried people on fixed incomes and people on lower incomes is the man or organisation which continues to force inflation upon this community. This applies particularly to the family man in the lower income group and to the exporter, be' he in the primary or the secondary field; If we price our primary and secondary exporting industries out of business there can be no other result but rising unemployment. 
The table incorporated in Hansard by the Minister clearly shows how this Government strove to keep pace- with the rising costs by increasing the purchasing power of pensions. It is the purchasing power of pensions, not the amount - of pensions, which really counts. This Government has done its utmost in this regard. As the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  stressed in his speech, the Opposition failed to mention the fringe benefits which have been introduced. They are of considerable value, not only from a monetary point of view but also in the relief and satisfaction which they give to many pensioners who realise they will be looked after if they become ill or need hospitalisation. We admit there are areas where there is still great need, and we are concerned about those areas. There is a need for better housing for pensioners, particularly in the cities; the cost of housing for pensioners is one of the great problems in the raising of the standard of living of pensioners in the large cities. There are concessions in many areas such as nursing services, household help, television and radio licence and telephone concessions. lt is interesting to note that the University of Melbourne in its research into pensions has come up with a result. It said that 90 per cent of aged people in this country live better than a family dependent on a minimum award wage, taking into account that the basic needs and debts of the aged are of course less than those of a young family, lt goes on to say that only 2 per cent of the aged live in chronic economic need. It refers to single old people who pay more rent than they can afford and to a few aged migrants not eligible for the pension. Ownership of a house free of debt is a major factor in maintaining the living standards of the aged. Over 70 per cent of our pensioners live in debt-free, rent-free homes, but we do know there are a number of pensioners who are paying excessive rents for unsatisfactory accommodation. This is an area which the Government is determined to consider in its fundamental review of all pensions. The Opposition's amendment highlights the insincerity of the Opposition in many factors regarding pensions. Paragraph 1 says: 
The increases proposed are inadequate. 
Yet this Government has continually raised pensions. This Government has never reduced pensions. It has introduced fringe benefits. I suppose pensions will always be inadequate, because somebody has to provide the money to pay them. The Opposition says the increases are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. I have read out the comparisons made by the Melbourne University. The standard of living of our pensioners is very much higher than it is in other countries. I do not deny it could be better, but it is a good deal higher. Paragraph 3 of the amendment says:  steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. 
That is surely hypocrisy from a party which is continually pressing for greater inflation by its actions and its demands for higher wages without an increase in productivity. Paragraph 4 of the amendment says:  a national superannuation system should be established ... 
Many of us are in support of a national superannuation scheme. 1 might remind honourable members that when Lord Casey was in this House he first introduced the national superannuation scheme. It has been a very difficult scheme to work out actuarially and at this very time the Government is studying very carefully the possibility of introducing a national superannuation scheme. But to abolish the means test without some such satisfactory scheme would mean to spread the available money much more thinly. One of the reasons why we have been able to pay . a higher standard of pensions in this&lt; country than is paid in many other countries with a similar standard of living is because we have been selective in the payment of pensions. We have endeavoured to pay pensions to those with the greatest need and not to those who do not really require, a pension. Paragraph 5 of the amendment says  pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually. 
Where will the money come from? Again I remind honourable members that in every speech in every campaign recently the Leader of the Opposition has promised to reduce taxation. Perhaps he has that magic wand or does he intend, as my colleague, the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  says by interjection, to print notes? Paragraph 6 of the amendment says:  the subject of social services should be referred to a select committee of this House. 
After hearing what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition I would hate to have him considering the future payments to pensioners. As I have said before, there are areas of real need of which the Government is conscious, particularly in the areas of inadequate housing and high rents. I stress again that neither the Minister nor any other member of the Government parties is satisfied or ever will be satisfied with the whole range of pensions, because the position is continually changing. 
This Government has done ils utmost to pick up these problems and to deal with them as they come along. We hear members of the Opposition criticising the Government and saying: 'This is piecemeal'. That is completely unfair criticism of the genuine attempt by the Minister and the Government to pay pensions in areas in which there is the greatest need and in which discrepancies arise. The Prime Minister has promised a complete review of pensions. I stress again that despite the rising costs in this country the pension has kept pace or more than kept pace with the increase in the cost of living. The Opposition continues deliberately to ignore the great benefits that are provided in the form of ever-increasing fringe benefits. I believe that the amendment highlights the insincerity of members of the Opposition when they discuss pensions in this House. I strongly oppose the amendment and support the Bill. 
Or GUN (Kingston) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
This Bill seeks the approval of the Commonwealth Parliament to guarantee the borrowing by the Administration of the Territory of Papua New Guinea of $20.7m from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I point out the tremendous importance of this Bill to New Guinea. The term of the loan will be 25 years, with a period of 5 years grace for repayment. The interest rate will be 7.25 per cent. The money will provide for the building of the upper Ramu Valley hydro-electric scheme with an initial capacity of approximately 45 megawatts and an ultimate capacity of some 75 megawatts. New Guinea is particularly fortunate in that it has the potential for tremendous hydro-electric power development. Originally it was proposed that this scheme should supply power to Lae alone, but it has been extended to supply power to Madang. Goroka, Mount Hagen and a number of other smaller cntres. It will use only 700 feet of the total head of 2,500 feet of the upper Ramu River. The scheme was studied thoroughly by the World Bank, which sent a number of missions to Papua New Guinea, and it is obviously sound. The Bank is happy with the terms of repayment and the ability of the Territory to service the bill. 
If this scheme is a success it will make lt possible for the Territory of Papua New Guinea to borrow money for further development from the World Bank. This will relieve tremendous pressures not only on the Australian Government but on the Territory itself in this period of development. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, this Bill is not controversial in any way. It is part of the tremendous development programme that Australia is undertaking in the Territory. Anybody who has known the Territory over a period of 25 years, as I have known it, cannot but commend Australia for what she has done and what she is doing. Few people who have not been there realise the transformation that has taken place. This Bill is a tremendous step forward and it will enable the establishment of many industries which will help New Guinea in its development. I have very much pleasure in supporting the measure. 
I rise to support the statement of the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  the purpose of which was to inform the House that the Commonwealth Government had accepted the recommendations of the House of Assembly's Select Committee on Constitutional Development. The Committee made extensive tours of the Territory before it made its recommendations. On two occasions it toured practically the whole of the Territory and held about 236 separate meetings with people in different areas. The Committee's recommendations have been approved, with one or two minor exceptions. It is obvious, therefore, that the Committee's report reflects the opinions and desires of the people of the Territory and of their elected representatives. 
The Committee found widespread lack of appreciation and understanding of the implications of self-government and thai the great majority of the people said that they were not in favour of it, mainly I think because they did not understand it. The Committee also found that there was an accelerating rate of political development. It recommended that the Territory be geared for self-government during the life of the next House of Assembly, that is, in the period from 1972 to 1976. It said that target dates should not be arbitrarily set. The Committee believes that planned, gradual development of Papua New Guinea is needed before self-government takes place. The attainment of internal self-government should be merely a further step in the orderly process of development. 
The Committee's recommendations are sound. They have been stated clearly after months of careful research and investigation, covering many hundreds of conferences with local people and their representatives. The Committee recommended strongly that regional electorates should be retained for the present at least. The future of the Territory is very important to Australia, as it is to the people of the Territory. Australia has a responsibility which has been given to it by the United Nations. This responsibility is a sacred trust. The Territory is becoming increasingly important to us in trade. Where trade relations are mutual trust can be developed as well. We cannot ignore the importance of the Territory from the defence angle, both for the defence of our own country and for the defence of the people up there. Last but not least, Australia's image in Asia will be reflected in the way that Australia and Papua New Guinea get on in the future in this process of development. 
There is no doubt that Australia can be justifiably proud of its incomparable job in colonial development. I have seen the Territory over a period of about 25 years. Anyone who has seen what has happened there cannot but admire the steps that have been made. Certainly in the early days things were not all that we hoped for, but in recent years we have come a long way and have done a great job. It is a fact that no colonial power in history ever had as its first intention the betterment and uplifting of a primitive people. I agree with my colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  who was with me in New Guinea recently, when he says that the progress of this primitive nation along the road to development over such a short time is one of the world's wonders. 
Australia has been able to do this and still retain the respect and friendship of the New Guinea people. This is something that has not been possible in many other countries which have been under colonial administration. I think it is tragic and criminal - one could use even stronger words - to seek to destroy for political purposes half a century of dedicated service by many people, the good will of those years of service and the peaceful development so far achieved. This is apparently what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  set out to do. 1 am sympathetic with some honourable members opposite, particularly with the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley who)  must have been embarrassed, although he would not admit it, by his Leaders actions. The Leader of the Opposition would have accomplished what he set out to do - to embarrass this Government and not give a damn for the New Guineans - but for the shrewd human judgment of tha people of New Guinea themselves. 
What was an act of crass stupidity backfired both at home and in New Guinea. But he did destroy to some degree the co-operation and friendly association of the New Guinea people. He promoted a lack of confidence between many New Guinea people and ourselves. He promoted a lack of confidence in those who were responsible for developing that country. Perhaps worst of all, his open support of the very small lawless group on the Gazelle Peninsula was quite insane and stupid if one realises how near this policy came to creating very serious trouble, possibly even the massacre of women and children. Many of the best informed people who have lived and served in New Guinea for many years - this applies both to expatriates and indigenes - agree that perhaps we are trying to go too fast rather than too slow. 
I have heard people express the opinion - again both New Guineans and expatriates - that one can give people training and education but one cannot give them experience and background over night. This takes time. The Australian Press has often been irresponsible and generally illinformed on New Guinea, and recent articles claiming that the Australian Government is being forced to accelerate its movement towards self-government are just too ridiculous for words and are completely untrue, as anybody who has been up there on a number of occasions would know. These articles are a complete distortion of the facts because the Federal Government has, all along, said that the decision will be with the people of the Territory. I refer again to the Committee's report which was prepared by the people and by their representatives in a voluntary capacity, lt has been accepted by this Government. The Committee went on to say: 
A strong and efficient public service is essential if Papua New Guinea is to have meaningful selfgovernment. The Committee and the people appreciate that there will be a need for expert officers to serve in both the public service and the private sector for an appreciable number of years.  1 think this is where we come to what is perhaps one of the most important problems facing New Guinea today concerning its progress along the road to selfgovernment and self-development, and that is the need to spell out very clearly indeed without any equivocation the future provisions for the expatriate officers who will become redundant as indigenes are trained to take their place. The Committee itself lays great stress on this matter. I have discussed this matter not only with senior expatriate officers but also with indigenous Administration officers and members of various parties in the House of Assembly. Perhaps the strongest plea came from members of the Pangu Party who told me that nothing could be more important to the future success of self-government in the Territory than the retention of experienced, efficient and dedicated expatriate officers. Many of these men have had 20 years service and may have 15 or 20 years more service to give to the community. Their guidance, their experience and, above all, their sympathy and understanding of the people is invaluable in the work that lies ahead of performing a job of inestimable value not only to New Guinea but also to Australia They must not be disadvantaged. Any money spent in guaranteeing their future security should be considered as an extremely worthwhile investment for Australia. I know the Government is aware oi this and is taking action, but I believe this question is one of extreme urgency. 
I want quickly to touch on local government. Back in 1955 there were only 9 local councils in the Territory. Today there are 147 made up of shrewd people who are progressive in their ideas. They are doing an excellent job. They are developing a social and political responsibility and are seeking to do a really first class job in local government. The House of Assembly also carried a resolution asking that more agricultural officer be appointed. This is, I think, tremendously important because for a long while yet New Guinea will be dependent upon its agriculture for the livelihood of many of its people. But there is tremendous development in the field and industry. Timber production has increased tremendously. Factory production has increased a very great deal over the past few years. The New Guinea people themselves are able to adopt methods that are introduced and shown to them, and this is evidenced by the tremendous growth in the production of cocoa beans produced by the indigenous people themselves, not by expatriates, from about 280 tons in 1960 to 5,833 tons in 1970. Coffee bean production has increased from 18 tons in 1960 to 1 5,000 tons in 1970. 
Land tenure has already been touched on. It is a tremendously important problem indeed and one that will take a lot of solving because of the various rights over the land. One man has the right to farm the land, another to take timber off it and another to hunt over it. Their land rights are very complicated and their land laws do not coincide with ours. This requires a good deal of understanding. I believe that this statement outlines another stage in the remarkable progress towards selfgovernment and eventual independence for Papua New Guinea. I believe Australia is doing a very worthwhile jib in New Guinea and one that can be an example to the rest of the world. New Guinea has developed to a point where it has reached a very crucial stage, and irresponsible statements at this point of time could do a great deal of damage. The majority of its inhabitants perhaps want to go slowly, but the situation demands close co-operation between the 2 governments at all levels, with a greater sympathy for and a greater understanding and a much wider and more intimate knowledge of the people up there by Australians generally. I believe they are a wonderful people who are experiencing the pangs of the birth of a new nation. It would be criminal to stir up trouble deliberately between the different sectors of 
New Guinea. I believe that New Guinea has a tremendous future and that that future is very closely tied with Australia. I strongly support the Minister's statement and congratulate the Government for doing its utmost to keep up with, and if possible one step ahead of, developoment in Papua New Guinea, and that is not an easy task. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Does Australia discriminate against imports from mainland China? When will the Minister announce, as forecast by the Prime Minister on 20th April, measures to liberalise our trade with mainland China? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. Following my representations to him, has the Minister yet issued invitations to come to Canberra to the mayors and shire presidents from the south west slopes and the Riverina to discuss the alleged pollution of the Murrumbidgee River, from which domestic water supplies are drawn for large areas in southern New South Wales? 
 I rise tonight to support the Budget. First, I want to draw attention to the fact that in this House tonight we saw the man who grovels to Chou En-lai grovelling to his master. The headline in one of tonight's newspapers was 'Whitlam backs Hawke'. If it had stated 'Whitlam bows to Hawke' it would have been much more accurate. This is the man who would sell his country down the drain. I do not need to do more than quote, as has been quoted in this House previously, what a former member of the Australian Labor Party, Professor Arndt, said about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He said: 'He has given away every bargaining point; he has sold his country down the drain'. This is the man who aspires to become Prime Minister of Australia. God knows what other promises he made. Maybe he has even invited Chou En-lai to come to Australia and help at the next elections. I know that they are trying to get  Mr Hawke  into my electorate. I have told  Mr Whitlam  that  Mr Hawke  would be worth 1,000 votes to me at any time. If he brings both of them into my electorate it will be worth 2,000 or 3,000 votes. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  went on with the usual lot of nonsense that he goes on with. This is the man who supports the policy of the Opposition which has done more to increase costs for the farmer and the producing community than has anything else. This is the man who weeps tears of blood for people in the country yet he has opposed every rural organisation. He opposed the Wool and Meat Producers Federation, the Australian Wheat Board, the Australian Wool Commission and all the other woolgrower and farmer organisations. How is it that he is always so far out of step with rural organisations? Like other honourable members opposite, he has never grown a pound of wool or a bushel of wheat yet he is prepared to spend other people's money and tell them how to run their business. 1 believe that the Budget is a serious attempt to damp down the dangerous inflation we are experiencing in this country. I believe it will do a useful job but we must go further and attempt to get at the root causes of inflation and deal with them relentlessly and with determination. I can be critical of my Government without getting my head cut off. If this Government has failed in any way it is because it has not been strong enough and has not dealt with the disruptive elements within the community which are the real basis of the rising costs and the declining efficiency in our community. I am not talking about the wage earners alone. I am referring to the economy as a whole. Big business has been too willing to pay higher wages which results in a rise in costs, and this destroys the purchasing power of the people. Unquestionably the greatest challenge facing the Government is the need to assert its right and to get on with its mandate to govern. The overwhelming majority of the people of this country - the decent ordinary Australians - are sick to death of the mob rule and dictatorship from the extreme left. They are sick to death of strikes, demonstrations and the would-be Fascist dictators like  Mr Hawke  who are trying to take power out of the hands of this democratically elected Government. They are confronted by what I am afraid has been too often a weak administration. Strong action to deal with  Mr Hawke  and his left wing and Communist destroyers would have the backing of the great majority of the people. It is the boasted policy of the extreme left and the Communists, many of whom control the largest industrial unions in this country - I am not calling them Communists, because they profess that they are Communists - to destroy a democratic society by promoting strikes, unemployment, hunger and misery. These are the means by which the extreme left hope to gain power. This is the policy that has been pursued in every country where the extreme left has eventually gained power. These people, although they do not represent more than a very minute portion of the trade union movement, have gained power because of the great Australian apathy. 
I am convinced that one of the most urgent matters facing this Government is the introduction of compulsory secret ballots under the supervision of the Commonwealth Electoral Office for the election of all union executives, and the conduct of a compulsory secret ballot of all workers engaged in an industry before a major strike is called on. I have said this for over 2 years, and we now find that the New South Wales and Victorian State governments and the Federal Government are looking into the matter. I have seen in my electorate that the people who support me most strongly on this matter are the union members themselves, but they say to me: 'We are not game to openly support you because we know that we will be victimised'. Compulsory secret ballots in union elections would put the control of the unions back into the hands of the rank and file where it ought to be. Do not honourable members opposite agree with me that that is where the control ought to be? What is more democratic than a compulsory secret ballot? Can those honourable members opposite who are interjecting tell me why it is that the extreme left and the Communists so bitterly oppose secret ballots? 
Secret ballots would replace the disruptive dictators who are in control of many unions with men of sound commonsense and moderate views who would be prepared to sit down and discuss matters with management in a sensible manner to the benefit of all concerned. It is a statistical fact that in this country fewer than SO per cent of people employed in industry belong to a union of any kind although unionism is compulsory in many areas. It is true to say that fewer than 10 per cent of the financial members of unions attend union meetings. I am told by many members of unions that this figure is an exaggeration and that it is nearer to 5 per cent but let us leave it at 10 per cent. So the militant, arrogant and fanatical minority of 10 per cent of members elect the leaders who then proceed ruthlessly to impose their will upon the whole of the work force in that field. 
I am a strong supporter of democratically elected unions and nobody can tell me that employers would not exploit employees if we did not have unions. But let us have democratic unions and not the farce which exists in so many areas today. The unions must have responsible and democratically elected leaders representative of the people in the work force. Most wage earners in this country cannot afford continual frivolous strikes. They need their wages to maintain their households. Many of them, young people particularly, have the problem of bringing up a family at the same time as they are buying a house on terms. They have to meet their hire purchase commitments on motor vehicles, washing machines, furniture and all the other things which go to make up a home. They do not want to go out on strike. They do not want a 35-hour week. There is little doubt that  Mr Hawke  and friends have a vested interest in industrial unrest. They are not complete fools. They know that each rise in wages without an equivalent increase in productivity reduces the living standards of the people of this country. Of course they know it. Likewise they know that the introduction of a 35-hour working week would lift the cost of goods by approximately 12 per cent or even perhaps 20 per cent in country areas. 
The honourable member for Riverina supports a 35-hour week. He supports a 4- day week. He supports a reduction in working hours and a reduction in productivity. The granting of an additional weeks annual leave to Federal Government employees would cost the taxpayers about $250m yet we hear weeping from the Opposition side over the $60m to be paid by way of assistance to the wool growers in an attempt to give them an opportunity to re-establish themselves. The introduction of a 35-hour week is estimated to cost the community about $ 1,400m to $2,000m and up to $2,900m if extra payment for overtime is included. Unless this Government is prepared to govern the country and to make it abundantly clear that it will not condone disruptionists law breakers and extortionists in carrying out their activities as they have been, this Budget will not be effective in damping down inflation. 
In addition, it is vital that there should be a re-constitution of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission so that its members will have to accept some responsibility for the economic consequences to the community as a result of its decisions. We need to have men of practical experience, brought up in commerce and industry appointed to senior positions in this Commission in which there are now too many theorists who have never had to battle - either as the lower wage earners or in management. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has promised a review of all tariffs. Many of our tariffs have not been reviewed for over 20 years. The prevalence of over-award payments in industry is a clear indication of the over protection of many industries. Big business, with its heavy over-award payments, is every bit as much to blame as is  Mr Hawke  because it gives very little resistance to demands for the exorbitant wage rises, lt says: 'It is easier to put up our prices. Let us give this increase to the workers for the sake of peace'. So the purchasing power of the people in the community - the pensioner, the superannuitant, the man with a large family - is decreased. We have to curb this galloping inflation. With high tariff protection, the heavy inflow of foreign capital and subsequent competition for labour and materials, big business is able to take the easy way out. Every wage rise is making the working man progressively worse off. The result can only be bankruptcy for both primary and secondary exporting industries. It can only result in a falling standard of living for all the people, particularly pensioners, the superannuitants and those in the lower income bracket. I believe that this is exactly what  Mr Hawke  and his Communist friends are seeking to enable them to gain their own ends. 
This Government must make a serious attempt to economise in its expenditure and demand a greater efficiency in its departments. The more I come in contact with senior officials in Government departments and their staffs the more I appreciate their dedication to their jobs and their efficiency and ability. But there is a great deal of room for improvement in the general run of departments. Every single one of us knows, if he is honest, and could not help but see that there is a need for more efficiency and more discipline in many government department. How many of us have met young people who work in government departments and who boast of the excellent wages they are receiving and how little work they do? It is a fact today that out of every 4 people employed in this country 1.2 are government servants. In other words, 2.8 of the workers must earn the money to pay for the government servants as well. The least we can expect is a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. 
I want to deal briefly with, the rural industries and the problems of the wool industry and rural reconstruction. I say 'briefly* because I hope to have more time at a later date to deal more fully with rural finance, rural reconstruction and debt adjustment. I stress that no matter what is done by the Government in these fields it will be useless unless strong action is taken to restore the power and the determination of the Government to govern, and the strongest possible action taken to deal with the destroyers, the exploiters, the Communists and the extreme Left fellow travellers who are at present allowed to defy constitutionally elected governments. 
One of the first essentials in regard to rural industry, if it is to survive and is to regain profitability, is the provision of long term finance. Length of term is much more important in rural finance than rate of interest, particularly in the purchase of properties and enabling farmers to develop their properties or diversify and change from wool to cattle or to growing various types of crops. I have stressed repeatedly to primary producer organisations that to demand loans at low interest rates is to make sure that money is shaded away from farmers by lending institutions. Financial institutions, including trading banks, are in the business of lending money to make money. Naturally they are going to do all that is possible to lend funds where the greatest profit is available. While bank overdraft rates to the rural industry are restricted to 7i per cent and hire purchase companies and other money lending sources are unrestricted, can anyone blame the trading banks for diverting funds to more profitable areas? 
Only the Commonwealth Development Bank provides loans of up to 15 years and, in very few cases, for slightly longer terms. Rural industry requires finance extending up to terms of 20, 25 and even 30 years to enable an effective programme to be put into practice. This sort of finance is available overseas. Housing loans are available for terms of up to 45 years on a nominal deposit. Yet housing deteriorates; in 4.5 years many a house will deteriorate, while land remains and generally appreciates in value, particularly if it is improved and developed. A primary producer would be much better off paying even 10 per cent on a 30 year term loan than 7 per cent for 10 years. For example, a farmer would have to earn 14.4 per cent on capital to service a loan at 7 per cent for 10 years, but he would have earn only 10.61 per cent on capital to service a loan at 10 per cent for 30 years. So even if he had a loan at 5 per cent for 10 years he would be very much worse off than if he had the same loan at 10 per cent for 30 years. 
It is significant that one large trading bank recently admitted that it owns 60 per cent of the shares in a hire purchase company - and intended to extend its holding - which paid a 39 per cent dividend on its capital last year. Many hire purchase companies last year paid 25 per cent up to 39 per cent on capital, and most of the banks have substantial share holdings in associated or subsidiary hire purchase companies. I believe that the provision of long term finance at reasonable rates of interest is of greater importance and much to be preferred to the payment of subsidies, even though subsidies to the rural industry can be fully justified when compared with the exceedingly high cost of protection given to secondary industry. 
The trading banks have indicated that they are not interested in providing long term loans, and they are in fact quite obviously withdrawing funds from this area when and where they are able to do so. They have also indicated a lack of interest in long term rural loans, even if they can be insured with a Commonwealth rural loans insurance corporation similar in constitution to the present Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. I believe that the Government must look very seriously at restricting the rates of interest on lending by hire purchase companies and other lending bodies if it is to restrict overdraft lending rates. The only alternative is to set up a special rural mortgage division of the Commonwealth Bank with the power to make loans on terms extending to 30 years at reasonable rates of interest. 
The guaranteed price of 36c per lb for wool, together with the rural reconstruction scheme and the farm build-up scheme will provide vital breathing space and allow time for readjustment, diversification and an opportunity to review and remodel the handling and selling of primary products. There is a very great deal to be done here. But it will prove futile unless this Government takes immediate steps to hold costs and to provide the right type of long term finance that is vital to rural industry. 
In summing up, I would stress the most urgent areas in which the Government must act quickly and effectively. Firstly, it must reaffirm in the most determined and unfaltering manner the Government's determination to govern. The people are demanding this and they expect it to do so. Secondly, it must legislate for compulsory secret ballots in all union elections and provide for a secret ballot for all persons employed in an industry before a strike is called,. Thirdly, the Arbitration Commission must be reformed and its terms of reference revised, to make it mandatory for it to consider the effects of its decisions upon the whole national economy. The Government must appoint to the Commission men of wide practical experience in industry and commerce in place of some of the impractical professional theorists who are now there. Fourthly, the Government must press on with an immediate and urgent review of all tariffs, with a balanced regard for efficiency and necessary protection for fully efficient industry. Fifthly, it should continue and intensify its drive for greater economy and efficiency in the Public Service, with the elimination of redundant employees who do not want to render a fair day's work. Lastly, the Government must treat as a matter of utmost urgency the provision of long terra rural loans at reasonable rates of interest with terms of up to 30 years. 
I believe that these things are all within the power and the ability of this Government to do, if it has the guts and the determination to do them. I am convinced that if it proceeds with strength and determination it will receive the strongest possible support from the great majority of the Australian people. 
May 1 first commend the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  for his very thoughtful and well composed speech on social services. He has obviously done a lot of homework and he has done it with great sincerity, which is in contrast to the efforts of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who attempts to score political points all along the line and who does not have any great sympathy for social service recipients as the honourable member for Perth obviously has. As to the suggestions that we should abolish or reduce some of the taxation concessions I wonder whether the honourable member for Perth realises that most of these concessions were introduced to assist the family man, particularly the man with a large family who is on a low income. 
Turning to the provisions of this Bill I draw the attention of the House to the fact that it represents an all time record in the payment of social service benefits. The figure has reached the staggering sum of $l,182m a year. That represents a 14 per cent increase over the figure paid last year and it is no small matter indeed. This is in line with Liberal-Country Party Government policy over the years - a constant rise in a constant widening of the field of social services. The Budget gives the greatest benefit to the greatest number of people. The pension rise has not been $1.25 but $1.75 over the year as a 50c increase was granted earlier in the year. That is quite a substantial amount. Of course it is not enough. No-one ever feels that he is getting enough. Even members of Parliament do not feel that they are paid enough. 
The same thing applies to pensioners but listening to some members of the Opposition one would think that the Government has reduced pensions. One would think that this amount is a miserable sum. Noone can say that an increase of $66m over last year is chicken feed. This is a tremendous amount of money. We hear so much about the 170,000 pensioners who will not benefit from the pension increases but we never read anything about the one million who will benefit from this Budget. We never read in the Press or hear from the Opposition about the very substantial outside incomes that many pensioners receive and enjoy. It is true that a single pensioner can earn up to $10 a week or $500 a year without his pension being affected or that he can earn $41 a week before he loses any entitlement to his pension. That is roughly $2,000 a year. The same thing applies to a married pensioner couple. They may earn $17 a week without any effect on their pension or $72 a week before they lose their pension. That is about $3,740 a year, which is a substantial amount. 
The Government has obviously set out to increase benefits in the areas of greatest need. I have heard so often people- on the other side of this House saying that this is what we ought to do - to help the people on low incomes. Here they are with tongue in cheek objecting because the Government is doing this very thing. A comparison of the value of the pension today with the value of the pension when the last Chifley Government was in power in 1949 - and God knows it is long enough ago - reveals that the single rate of $4.25 in 1949 would have a present value of $11. What is the single pension today? It is $17.25. That is about 50 per cent better than the last Labor Government could manage. Similar differences occur right down the scale. As I have said it has been the policy of successive Liberal-Country Party Governments to widen the field of pensions as well as the payments. This Budget certainly does this. Although age and invalid pensions are the basic pensions this Budget does cover pensions in many other fields as well. 
I agree that one of the problems - and I think that most of us come in contact with this - is those people who are totally dependent on their pension and who have to find suitable accommodation at a reasonable price. In some areas it is possible to do this; in others it is not. As the honourable member for Perth said there are other areas which need to be looked at in the field of social services. One is the allowance for a wife particularly in special circumstances such as an elderly pensioner with a young wife who has to go out to work to support him. There have been very substantial increases in children's and guardians' allowances. These are innovations brought in by a succession of LiberalCountry Party governments. Increases have been granted to widows over 50 years and over 45 years with a dependent child. This is tremendously important. 
The Government has introduced these benefits through its new policy. Deserted wives and their dependent children also will benefit. If ever there was a field in which there was a need for something to be done it is here. It is not so very long ago that there was no assistance for deserted wives. Today they are on the same rate as a widow. This is an area with which I have had a good deal to do because it so happens that with the recession in the country areas accommodation has become available in country towns. A lot of deserted wives have come to country areas. So many of these people come to these towns with 3, 4 or 5 children and virtually only the clothes which they wear. They do not have sufficient bedding materials and that sort of thing. There is a tremendous job to be done in this field. The people in country towns are doing a big job in assisting these people to become individuals in these country towns. Very often they get better support in the country towns than they would in the vast cities. A tremendous job is being done in the rehabilitation of deserted wives. 
If there is one thing a deserted wife needs it is to regain her self-respect and independence. Quite often she has lost her selfrespect through no fault of her own and no blame can be attributable to her. She feels that she has been discarded and is ashamed that she is a deserted wife. It is most important to bring deserted wives back into the general community and to retrain them for jobs so that they can earn and provide their children with better education. I have witnessed the absolute transformation of young deserted wives who have come to country towns where local residents have taken them into their hearts and supported them. The local women have introduced them to their social institutions and have looked after the children while the deserted wives have been trained for employment. Subsequently the deserted wives have been able to earn a living and become independent. The Government has assisted in this process. Rehabilitation is available on an ever-increasing scale, not only for training but also in the provision of tools of trade, equipment, books and travelling expenses- Much has been done in this area and I commend the Minister for his great sympathy. 
Many improvements have been made to the unemployment and sickness benefit which includes dependants allowances. This has made life much easier for many people on the low wage scale, particularly those who do not enjoy the best of health and who have the ever present fear that their dependants will suffer if they become ill and temporarily lose employment. Child endowment is designed to help the family - to encourage Australians to have larger families and to populate our country with the best migrants we can have. I believe that what the Government has done in respect of child endowment alone is deserving of great commendation. One could continue at length outlining various forms of assistance which the Government has made available. It has assisted the Meals on Wheels organisation. This is an organisation which operates more particularly in the cities, but almost every country town has its little group of people who are assisting the Meals on Wheels organisation to provide meals. It is often more difficult for country residents than it is for city people to go somewhere to buy food or to obtain a meal and many women are doing a tremendous job in meeting this problem. They are assisted by the Government. I do not overlook the work that is being done by employees in country hospitals. Nursing sisters frequently take an active part in providing meals and even delivering them. The encouragement that the Government has provided has been extremely worth while. 
It should not be necessary for me to refer to the assistance that is provided in respect of handicapped children. Throughout the Australian community there are' vast numbers of children who are handicapped in some way. It is only when a school for handicapped children is established that people appreciate just how many children are involved. It is surprising to see the number of such children in small country towns. A great job is being done in the provision of training centres and of teachers for handicapped children. One of the great values of organisations like Meals on Wheels and those bodies which look after handicapped children is that they involve the people of a community. This is important. It will be a sad day when people become no more than cards in an index system or numbers on a sheet. 
If there is one thing that people in trouble, invalids, old people and handicapped children need, it is sympathy and understanding. The Government has attempted to enlist the aid of those who are prepared to assist people less fortunate than themselves. The work of the sheltered workshops cannot be commended too highly. Many a child whose future looked bleak has been given new independence and a new outlook on life because of the training he has received in a sheltered workshop. Sheltered workshops, through the assistance given by the Government, have been expanding and extending throughout the nation. Yet we hear only criticism of what the Government has done; we do not read about the good things that the Government has done. 
Perhaps one of the greatest benefits introduced by this Government has been the $2 for Si subsidy for the building of homes of all kinds - not only home units, which have filled a tremendous need, but also hostel type accommodation which caters for people who are beyond looking after themselves as well as they ought to be looked after, and who are unable to cook their own meals. By this means provision is made for people who have not quite reached the stage of being nursing home patients. Perhaps this is an area that needs greater development. These people want to be independent but they need their meals provided. This is a tremendously important area and one in which great work is being done. In my area at the moment there is a move to take over quite a large college, a magnificent building, that has recently been closed and to convert it into a hostel. This would relieve the pressure on some of the nursing homes because the nursing homes and country hospitals today are crowded with geriatric patients who could be cared for much more satisfactorily and in a better atmosphere in a hostel than in a country hospital. 
 The subsidised pensioner medical service has been a tremendous boom as has been the scheme which subsidises the cost of medicines which are required urgently by elderly people. I am pleased to see that old people have not been forgotten in the proposal to increase radio and television licence fees. Through the concessions which have been afforded them, they benefit when necessary fee increases take place. They are still receiving quite substantial telephone concessions. One of the great problems which constantly face the Government in the provision of adequate pensions is the erosion of the value of pensions. 
I would that some honourable members opposite would regard this problem more seriously because I blame the Hawke- Whitlam axis for greatly increasing costs to the community. They are forever promoting trouble and rolling strikes, thereby increasing costs. If the Opposition were serious, it would look more carefully at its amendment and be genuine in its approach before bringing forward such an amendment. If members opposite were really genuine they would recognise that this is an area which should be examined carefully by all members. It is beyond question that rising costs hit, first, the pensioners, the sick, the old, the low income earners and the people with large families. Ti the Government is to increase pensions and make the widening range of social services effective, it is necessary that something be done to help keep costs down. 
In closing, I warmly commend the Minister for Social Services. As one who has worked closely with him I know just how deeply sincere he is about social services and how keen he is to do his job. He does not always get everything he would like to get but which of us does? I deplore and express disgust at the attack made by the chief spokesman for the Opposition upon a man who is trying his utmost to do a really worthwhile job for the pensioners. I do not think that we have ever had a Minister for Social Services who has been more sincere or has worked harder in the interests of the needy than the present Minister. I strongly support the Bill and oppose the amendment. 
I rise to support this Bill. As has been already pointed out by previous speakers, the purpose of the Bill is to extend the livestock slaughter levy for a further 3 years. The levy was first introduced in January 1969. It is interesting to note that the levy rate will remain unaltered at lc per head on cattle and one-tenth of lc per head on sheep and lambs. The other point worth noting is that the levy will be imposed on the owner of the stock at the time of slaughter; it will not be a charge against the producer. I think it is quite important to note this fact. The proposal for this levy has been supported by the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council, the Meat and Allied Trades Federation and the Australian Meatworks Federal Council. So it has found support from the meat trade. The service and investigation section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has used the funds obtained from the levy, together with a matching Commonwealth contribution, to assist meatworks in many fields, including quality control, sanitation and hygiene. 
As previous speakers have already pointed out, the meat industry, particularly the beef industry at the present time, is a very profitable industry. Despite what the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said, the experts in the industry believe that it will be a long while before artificial meats are likely to take the place of the real thing. Meat is still the cheapest and best form of protein for human consumption, and many people in the world urgently need protein. But there is a very urgent need for constant and deep research. Australia produces some of the best meat in the world, but she produces a lot of meat which does not reach that standard. It is important that we should maintain and increase our standards as we produce more meat. There has been a marked increase in our exports of meat, particularly to the United States of America. That country demands that a particularly high standard of hygiene and sanitation should be maintained in our killing works and abattoirs throughout Australia. Of course, there is a growing demand to have quality beef airfreighted to many parts of the world. 
This levy has made it possible for the service and investigation section of the CSIRO to assist in carrying out research in many fields. There has been research into the tenderness of beef, which is very important. The question of killing and the treatment of stock prior to killing has a great bearing of the quality of meat. The appearance of meat is tremendously important. Some housewives like meat to look one colour and others like it to look another colour. But meat must look attractive. This section of the CSIRO has carried out research in order to improve the appearance of meat. The taste of meat is extremely important, particularly to those people in the new markets we are developing in South East Asia and in other parts of the world. Much can be done to improve the taste of our meat so that it will suit the palates of Asian people. The CSIRO has assisted tremendously in such fields as research into the problem of infestation of mutton with dog tape worms. This is tremendously important. Infection of our mutton with tape worms has been a major reason for the rejection of our exports to the US. Money has been provided for research into tropical pastures and farm lands. 
Research has been carried out in many areas into problems associated with cattle tick and breeds of cattle that are partially resistant to the tick and to heat. Internal parasites as well as external parasites represent another big problem in some areas. Brucellosis is a very real threat to the beef industry and again a lot of work has been done in research in this field. Fertility is becoming increasingly a problem particularly wilh the introduction of exotic breeds but fertility even in some of our old established breeds varies from strain to strain. 
The economics of the meat industry make it extremely important for us to maintain fertility and to increase it. Perhaps one of the most important features in the southern part of Australia where the very best quality beef is produced is the incidence of bloat in cattle. Again a lot of work has been done on this. Some breeds of cattle are considered to be more resistant or not as susceptible to bloat as other breeds. I have had practical experience of this in rearing vealers. I have found that some dairy breeds seem to be much more resistant to bloat than some beef breeds. Eye cancer is another problem affecting one breed in particular which is very popular in Australia. I want to mention drought feeding. Economic drought feeding is something that is extremely important not only in the arid areas but also in the better rainfall areas because where an area is subject to recurring droughts, particularly if rainfalls are not very frequent, there is the problem of feeding a lot of cattle in a period when the carrying capacity is being raised to improve the pasture but there is insufficient pasture to feed the cattle. 
Supplementary feeding for better production is another field in which finance for research has been provided. A lot of work has been done on lot feeding but as yet the market for lot fed cattle has not justified the cost involved except in some rare cases. We are not receiving the money that we should be receiving for our quality meat. There is tremendous opportunity for supplementary feeding, for running stock on pastures and feeding them with supplementary feed such as grain and hay (o finish them off. In this way stock which would otherwise have to be carried for another year would be ready for the butcher. The CSIRO is doing a tremendous job. Not only must we produce more beef if we are to keep many of our rural areas viable, but we must produce quality beef and disease free beef. It is essential for us to study the methods of transportation and packaging of beef and the overall economics of reducing production costs in getting the produce to the market. 
The CSIRO has carried out a great deal of work in more recent years on sheep diseases, the promotion of sheep meat and the sale of this meat to countries with a need for protein foods but which cannot afford to buy beef as it is generally a high priced product. Many Asian people do not have a taste for mutton as they do for beef, pork or other meat. Much work remains to be done in this field to produce sheep meat which will suit the palates of these people. Sheep meat is generally cheaper than beef. We have to face up to the fact that the greater proportion of the world's population eats either beef, pork or poultry. There is a limited number of nations whose people eat sheep meat. A lot of research needs to be done in this field. We should be lifting our lambing percentages. There may also be a need for research into the production of woolless sheep. There has been a suggestion that some of our western areas might be suitable for the production of woolless sheep. One grazier said to me: 'Well, I have a large western lands lease and if I had woolless sheep I could look after about 50,000 on my own. I would not have to shear, crutch, mules or jet them. I would only want a hand to round them up to mark the lambs and to draft the fats off.' This suggestion is not quite as silly as it may sound when we remember that there is a shortage of protein throughout the world. Perhaps there is a place for the production of woolless sheep in some of the more arid areas of Australia. 
I believe meat has a really promising future in this country and it is probably one of the most promising industries in rural production. If we are to sell our meat and compete with synthetic products and extend our markets in competition with other nations we have to maintain a high standard of meat production and endeavour to increase this high standard in the quality of our meat. We have to get our meat, to the markets in good condition. The time is not far off when much of our meat will be air freighted to overseas markets. This is no pipe dream, lt has already been done from my own town of Cootamundra. Until quite recently Conkey's meatworks was air freighting prime lamb to Canada. The lambs were killed in Cootamundra, the meat boned, packaged and transported to Mascot and placed on Qantas jets. Within 48 hours of being slaughtered this meat was on sale in Canadian shops in the winter time. The same abbatoir is still air freighting beef and mutton to the Middle East. There is a growing market in these areas. 
The time is not too distant when large aeroplanes will be air freighting quality meat - not the cheap cuts - to many parts of the world. We hear a great deal about the problem of aircraft noise in our cities and the curfew on flying times. Our aeroplanes are becoming larger and they will become noisier. This is something about which honourable members on the other side have been complaining so bitterly. 1 want them to realise that the time is not far off - indeed some preliminary work has been done on this - when our aeroplanes will be equipped to carry passengers to Melbourne or Sydney and then to fly over the ranges into one of the more fertile areas such as the electorate of Hume, which produces almost everything including beef, fruit and vegetables, anc pick up goods which will be delivered overnight to Asia and other parts of the world. The time is not too far distant when we will be able to fly perishable foods of all kinds, including our choice quality meat, to many parts of the world. This will be fresh food, not frozen food. We are already flying food to places like New Caledonia. I think the flying time for perishable goods to Noumea in New Caledonia is 2 hours 40 minutes. 
There is a bright future for our rural industry in terms of the production of meat provided we do our homework to develop markets and improve quality. We hear about people who go out into the urban areas and tell the people that everything is desperate, telling the farmers how badly off they are, but nobody has come up with any real worthwhile solution to the problems facing these people. There are plenty of these people about and we have them in this House. They are calamity howlers and prophets of doom who can tell us all the sad things but nothing about the future prospects. As  Dr Callaghan  said in Cootamundra quite recently, you can do what you like about birth control and you can do what you like about family planning but there will be many more millions of people in the world in the next 20 years and at our present rate of food production we will not be able to supply them with food. There is a very bright future for meat because of the lack of protein in the world. I support the Bill and I strongly commend the research section of the CSIRO on its very worthwhile work. 
I rise to support this wool support scheme, knowing how extremely important it is to everybody who lives in the rural areas. I speak as a woolgrower and as a member of growers* organisations, not as a bureaucrat or an ex-journalist or somebody who has no real sympathy or understanding of or stake in the industry. This has been one of the best pieces of legislation to come before this 
House for some time and it has been introduced during a time of difficult circumstances. The wool industry is an important industry. This country was built on wool. It has carried the people of this country since Australia's foundation. It has gone through bad times before and it has survived and it is going through a difficult period at present. 
Current difficulties have been aggravated by the world monetary crisis and the 10 per cent surcharge which has been imposed by the United States of America on our wool exports on top of the existing 25c a lb import duty. This has clouded the whole issue at a time when, according to those who were in a position to know, it seemed as though the industry was recovering, that demand was rising and that prices were starting to increase. In the meantime, this Bill will provide an assured price for wool to all wool growers. As 1 said earlier, wool is still Australia's most important export industry and the future livelihood not only of the wool growers and most of the people who live on the land but also of those who live in country towns - business people and wage earners alike - depends on the wool industry. We were able to get agreement on this support price scheme in the face of opposition from many quarters because, I believe for the first time in the history of this country, all rural organisations were united in pressing for the need of a support price. Not only were all the rural organisations united in their support but also business houses throughout the country gave their support to the proposal. In my own town of Cootamundra one organisation made a tremendous effort to get in touch with as many business houses as possible in country towns seeking their support of this proposal. I believe that this is what has swayed the Government eventually to provide a support price. 
We have been told by those who claim to know that although the price support does not reach the 40c a lb sought by the Australian Country Party - an amount this will solve the problems of the industry which it thought was really necessary to provide a solid background and price for Australian wool - in actuality it will be close to 39c a lb. The Minister said that this will be about 20 per cent on the price that wool will fetch. I do not suggest that - far from it. However, it does give producers a breathing space and an opportunity to do something that will be more effective and long-standing for the wool industry. It will give them time to readjust and take control of their industry and to eliminate some of those people - the parasites - who have been making much more out of the industry than has the wool grower. It will give the wool growers, who are in a position where it is difficult to become economic at anywhere near present prices, a chance to diversify. It will give them a breathing space in which to adjust and time to see whether wool will return to its rightful place as the world's superior textile. I believe that we have a lot of homework to do ourselves. I do not exempt completely the primary producers from the present crisis. I believe that we primary producers have to do what was done in the case of wheat. We have to take control of our own product and follow it through. For too long we have been prepared to put all our effort and all our scientific knowledge into improving our product and then, as I heard the Minister once say, to push it out on the landing and say to those who handle it from there on: 'Do what you damn well like with it'. 
I remember very vividly when members of the International Wool Textile Organisation came to meet our Committee.  Mr Peltzer  started his discussion with us by saying: 'Gentlemen, we represent the biggest wool manufacturers in the world. Our companies throughout this continent and in Japan have many millions of dollars tied up in machinery. We have been in this game for generations. We have a clientele and we have a business. We want to stay in it. But the trouble today is that wool is too dear in the shops'. That is a fact. Wool is dear in the shops, lt is a premium fabric in the shops. He continued: 'It follows that we cannot pay you growers any more for your wool'. 
That is where I objected and many of us who were practical wool growers objected. I said to him at that meeting: M happen to be wearing a $100 pure wollen suit today, but my share of the raw wool in that suit is worth less than 50c'. I said: If you want to stay in business, so do we and neither of us will stay iri it alone'. I also remember vividly when he laughed and said: 'For years you wool growers have been taken for a ride. You have paid expensive wool classers. You have put a straight merino clip up in 15 to 16 lines and so often we buy it and then put them back together again.' This is where we have fallen down as growers in not following through with the sale of our wool. 

 Mr Peltzer represents, in my view, the biggest wool manufacturing interests in all the world. He went on to say: 'What we will hope to do is to buy on sample. It will be a sample perhaps taken in the shed, maybe on the sheep's back. The bale will be pressed in the shed and possibly not opened until it is taken to the factory'. One does not have to use much imagination to see what would be saved there. But, he said: 'We will want to buy it in 1,000 or 2,000-baIe lines'. This means that we have to have a stockpile. We hear all this ballyhoo about the small stockpile that the Australian Wool Commission has at the moment. The cost of it is peanuts when you consider it in relation to other costs in this country. Why, the granting of an extra week's leave to our public servants, so I am told will cost about $250m a year. Yet there is a scream about the spending of $100m in the support of our greatest industry. The wool does not disappear. It will still be there to be sold. 
I remember the days of the Joint Organisation and how wool made a comeback. We have homework to do. I think the move into blends is a tremendously important one. I think there is a great deal that can and will be done. We have perhaps 9 months in which to show that something can be done. If, within those 9 months, we are able to show that wool is coming back, if we have done our homework in cutting our costs and cutting handling costs then we can legitimately expect the Government and the Australian people to support the industry until it gets right back on its feet, as I believe it will. 
We have heard some members of the Opposition. Maybe the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who has just interjected, was born in Currabubula. I am told it was in a manger, but I am not sure about that. But that would be about the limit of his knowledge of the wool industry. He has lived on the wool grower, like many others, ever since. It always aggravates me to hear the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  talking about their interest in (he wool growers. These are the people who support a party that is pressing for a 35- hour week. Nothing would be more detrimental and more disastrous, not only to the wool industry but also to the whole community. It has been reliably estimated that a 35-hour working week would increase costs in the city by at least 12 per cent and in the country by 20 per cent. We hear these honourable members who claim to represent rural electorates rising and weeping crocodile tears for the primary producers and then supporting a policy that would do more than anything else to destroy them. If I have any criticism of this Government, it is that they have not been firm enough with those who are disrupting our economy and forcing our costs up. No matter what we do in regard to supporting our industry, no matter what we do to improve our handling and presentation of the product, it will be of no avail whatsoever if our costs go on skyrocketing as they are. I remember very vividly a quotation made by  Mr Hawke.  He said: The only farmers who are in trouble are a few small inefficient farmers'. By God, let him come out into my electorate and make that allegation - and my electorate is a good one, with good country. 
I have heard the same sort of statement made by some of the banking fraternity. They have a complete lack of appreciation of the problems and the importance of the wool industry. I believe that the time is fast approaching when we will have to have some type of acquisition. When one talks about acquisition one can be given a dozen different ideas of what it means. I believe that we have to be in the position to be able to do as  Mr Peltzer  said. That is, we must be able to present wool on sample and say: 'Look, we can load within a week a thousand bales and guarantee it to your specification*. I think this is tremendously important. I think that in any plan that is adopted we must make room for Economic Wool Producers Ltd, an organisation that has shown what can be done. This is a prime and typical example of private enterprise getting out and helping itself. 
Do not let us be afraid of at least some stockpiling. I remember all the criticisms of what would happen when the Australian Wheat Board first came into existence. It was said: 'How will growers be paid?' We were told that it was impossible for many farmers to join the Board because the grain merchants financed them. They supplied them wilh seed and super and everything else. We got over that problem. Who would want to return to the old days without the Australian Wheat Board, the most successful selling organisation this country has, despite the attempt by the Opposition and the honourable member for Dawson to make it a political issue. 
The Australian Wheal Board is still our most successful selling organisation. We arc still selling more goods to China than many other countries which do recognise China. Many countries who do not recognise China at all are selling vast quantities of goods. It was never a political matter until the Australian Labor Party tried to make it one and tried to play politics. There is a future ahead of the wool industry as there is a future ahead of the wheat industry. I believe the future is very largely in our own hands. Many other industries are tied up with the future of the wool industry and with primary industries generally. 
I believe that most important of all is the provision of long term finance. Anybody who has had anything to do with primary production in a practical way knows that the length of term of the loan is much more important than the rate of interest. We are pressing for the provision of this sort of long term finance. I there is a reluctance on the part of the trading banks we must press for the setting up of a special division of the Development Bank. I know that there is opposition from the Treasury and from the trading banks. I have never yet heard a legitimate, sound reason why there should not be a provision of long term rural finance. If the wool industry and our other rural industries are to survive, this is a necessity. 
But the provision of finance, the development of salesmanship - and there is a great deal to be done here - will all be of no avail unless we keep our costs within reason. Today on every hand costs are escalating. We heard  Mr Hawke  say: 'This will be the year of strikes'. He is VicePresident of the Australian Labor Party. We saw what happened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  very quickly when he suggested there should be some control of strikes. We have seen the opposition to proposals for compulsory secret ballots so that sane sensible people could gain control of our industrial unions. I, am not an opponent of industrial unions. 1 am an opponent of the Communist leaders who have aggravated the whole situation. This is extremely important to the wool industry. 
I am appalled as I sit in this place tonight and listen to the uninformed nonsense that is being spoken by some of the members of the Opposition - 5-minute visitors to Papua New Guinea who have no understanding and no knowledge of the position there. Some of them have gone there recently for 5 . minutes and have become experts without any appreciation of the problems of the people or of what the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  has done over the years. 
The Australian Government has done a tremendous job in Papua New Guinea. The Government's aim has been to discharge to the utmost of its capacity the obligation that Australia accepted under the United Nations Charter - to promote the political, social, economic and educational advancement of 
Papua New Guinea and its progressive development towards internal selfgovernment and independence with freely expressed wishes of the people. 
To one uninformed interjector on the opposite side of the chamber I say that my first experience of the Territory was back in 1942 or 1943. I do not claim to be an expert, but I have been back to the Territory continually. I know something of the people, something of the problems and something of the Territory. To say that this country has set out to exploit the people of the Territory is to show a complete lack of appreciation of what has been done over the years by this country. We are pouring into the Territory about Si 30m annually of Australian taxpayers' money to help these people with the sole objective of helping them towards selfgovernment and eventual independence. We have developed their industries; we have developed roads, we have developed transport. We have done a tremendous job, and what is more we have done it with their co-operation. That is something that these people who have no real knowledge of the Territory do not appreciate. I thought that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was the most ignorant man who ever went to the Territory, but I am beginning to wonder whether some of his supporters are not even more ignorant - and that is saying a great deal indeed. 
The United Nations was critical early in the piece of Australia's handling of Papua New Guinea because some of the nations represented on the committees that visited New Guinea were critical. But I would ask honourable members to read the last United Nations report and see what that independent committee ' said about New Guinea and what has been done over the last few years. It gave Australia a tremendous commendation for what it had done for the people of the Territory. Those of us who were there during the war remember what those people were like 30 years ago. They were completely primitive people. Today we can go back and see some of the development in which they have taken part. Only last week we had down here 5 Ministerial Members of the House of Assembly, every one of them an able man and every one of them proud of his country and grateful for what has been done. Of course there are problems. There always will be problems in the development of a backward nation such as New Guinea. 
Under the constitutional development approved by the House of Assembly and approved by our Government the people of the Territory have been given a tremendous amount of self-government. Today they virtually have self-government in almost all areas. There are only very few areas where they do not have it. The Ministerial members and the Assistant Ministerial Members make the final decisions in many areas such as education, public health, tourism, co-operative societies, business administration, posts and telegraphs, Territory revenue, taxation, shipping, civil defence, and corrective institutions, which is a tremendous responsibility that they carry out very well indeed. The Commonwealth has retained control in only a very limited area, namely, in the area of law and order, internal security, international affairs, defence and international trade relations and civil aviation. The Commonwealth exercises some supervision over developing projects where it is needed. Many leaders in the Territory, including Michael Somare, have said to me: The worst thing that could ever happen to this country would be if we lost the support of the Australian people, if we lost the services of the experienced expatriate officers before we are ready'. 
Only last week a member of the Press said: 'Shortly, when a Labor government comes into power, Papua and New Guinea will have self-government overnight'. I quickly jumped in and said: 'You are jumping to conclusions'. A Ministerial Member sitting beside me said: 'We do not want self-government until we are ready'. This was said to me by members of the Pangu Party and by members of all the other parties up there. They said *We want it when we are ready for it, not when  Mr Whitlam  or somebody else dictates to us'. These are proud and able people. We recently interviewed in Papua New Guinea a number of local government councillors and when one expatriate who was a teaching sister on one of the councils suggested that the difference in payment was a big problem and could cause jealousy between the expatriates and the indigines, several members of the council got up and said: How foolish can you be? We need these people. They have a different standard of living. They come up here at a considerable disadvantage. We are prepared to pay them until we have trained people to take their places'. These people understand the position and as I said, they are people with tremendous ability and a shrewd assessment of the situation. 
One of the great problems in Papua New Guinea is that there are so many ethnic groups. Some 700 languages are spoken. We must try and weld these people together into a national unity because if it is to be a successful nation, there must be some sort of national unity. This is not easy. The highlanders have different interests to the people around the coast. The people in the Gazelle Peninsula have different interests to the Bougainvillians. There is no question that most of the trouble in Papua New Guinea in recent years has been aggravated, as was mentioned earlier, by the visits of some irresponsible members of the Opposition. The most irresponsible member of all was the Leader of the Opposition. If honourable members do not believe this, let them go to Papua New Guinea and talk to the New Guinea people themselves. He is the man who spoke in the streets and very nearly caused riots and had to be walked off the streets by a District Commissioner because of his irresponsible statements and his encouragement of lawlessness by people who have yet so much to learn. 
There are tremendous projects being developed in Papua New Guinea. The people have educational facilities. There are high schools all over New Guinea. They have primary schools, technical colleges, a university and an institute of technology and they are keen to fit themselves to take over control of their country as quickly and as soon as they are able. However, they are aware that they are not yet ready. There are tremendous developments in forestry and there is great potential for the export of wood chips and the supplying of timber. The beef industry has also expanded. From virtually no cattle at all, there are now about 79,000 head of beef cattle and slaughter houses have been established in places like Port Moresby, 
Lae, Goroka, Mount Hagen and Madang The oil palm industry has been a successful enterprise and one in which the indigines themselves are taking a great part. The company which has been the main developer of this industry has gone to considerable lengths to assist and finance indigines and has provided them with their own areas so that they can become proficient. While the tea industry is certainly still in the hands of expatriates, tremendous efforts are being made to train and teach the indigines to develop and harvest tea. Fisheries have a great potential in Papua New Guinea and, of course, there is mining at Bougainville. There are other areas where there is tremendous potential for these people to develop an export industry so that they can become independent. Australia cannot forever pour money into this country at the rate of $!30m a year. 
Land presents a great problem as it does all over the world. Even in Australia land problems create quite a lot of tension. Wealthy professional men and business men boost the price of land. It seems to be inherent in human nature that people want to own land and the people of Papua New Guinea also want to own land. They have a very involved system of land tenure and one that we have endeavoured to accommodate so as to encourage them to handle their own land problems. This also is not an easy matter. There is a great problem with roads and highways and the transport system in a country with a terrain like Papua New Guinea. The New Guineans have co-operated in the building of aerodromes in remote areas as well as highways over almost inaccessible places. A tremendous job has been done in Papua New Guinea over the years by cooperation between the New Guinea people and the Australian Government. I cannot too highly commend the Minister for his cool direction, despite unfair and unjust criticism, in a very difficult situation. 
I believe that these people have a great future. We should not forget that they live very close to us. It is important to Australia for many reasons that they remain our friends and that we remain the friends of the people of Papua New Guinea. I know many New Guinea people; I have known them for many years. They are very fine people indeed and it makes my blood boil to hear uninformed criticism of what Australia has done and what these people are doing for their country. I commend the Minister and the Government for doing a great job in difficult circumstances. There are some members of the Opposition, such as the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who do understand the situation and who must be embarrassed by what has been said. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
that death from mass starvation and disease is occuring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
that, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
that the Government grant income tax deductions for donations over 2 dollars made towards the relief of overseas disaster areas. 
that this be effected with haste to ensure the maximum possible aid to those at present in refugee camps and those in danger of famine in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
A short time ago we were treated to a most unAustralian exhibition in this chamber. It might have been reminiscent of the bullrings of Spain, but it did not do anything for the dignity of this place. This is a very serious debate and that sort of behaviour does not help at all. Perhaps we should look very carefully at our immigration policy. Australia has a very sound immigration policy. 
I did not refer to anybody,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  If the cap fits anybody, let him wear it. The Australian immigration policy had one great architect. In my book he is a very great Australian. I say that although I do not agree with him politically. I refer to the right honourable Arthur Calwell, the right honourable member for Melbourne. He is a very great Australian. He is a man who represents rather a disappearing race in the federal Australian Labor Party today. He is a man who personifies honesty, sincerity and dignity. Unlike the permissive Left which now seems to be taking a predominant position in the Labor Party, the right honourable member for Melbourne believes in democratic government, and he always did. Unlike the new extreme Left, he does not believe in violence or in the breaking of the law; he believes in changing the law democratically. 
I remember the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  not very long ago referring to any man who did not have a university degree as being little better than a peasant. This has been his general attitude, and perhaps that is the reason why he dumped the peasant from Grayndler as Labor's spokesman on immigration matters. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  is another one of the old solid genuine Labor men. He has been dumped because he does not have a university degree. 
Australia's policy has one principal aim, that is, to try to develop this vast country so that we are able to hold it, provide an inheritance for our children and earn our place in this part of the world. We set out to try to maintain a population with similar ethnic origins, similar cultures and similar standards of living. The emphasis has always been on our ability to integrate, to assimilate people and to avoid the setting up of small national minorities. It certainly has been a restrictive immigration policy, but not nearly as restrictive as the policies of many Asian countries. Our policy has been based on the ability of our migrants to assimilate, to become part of our community. It has been based not on race, colour or creed, as so many members of the Opposition would like people to believe. 
It is a fact that nowhere in the world today does a multi-racial society continue to live in harmony and peace for any length of time. Perhaps the United States of America is the greatest example of this. With its vaunted high standard of living, culture and all the rest, the problems which it faces are a striking example of how difficult this immigration question is. Our policy is not based on any feeling of superiority. That is not the point at all. I know that this has been pointed out repeatedly by the right honourable Arthur Calwell since he introduced the policy for which he has fought all along. We are friendly, tolerant people. Australian people are singularly free of prejudice. Travel in South East Asia makes this very apparent. We have a tremendous image in South East Asia. I have been told over and over again that we Australians are prepared to accept people irrespective of colour or creed, provided we respect them. This is an invaluable image, and it gives us a tremendous potential to do a worth while job in South East Asia and in fact in many other under-developed countries. 
We have Britain's example of what happened when she allowed unrestricted immigration. Eventually she had to restrict immigration. But her example is a warning to us. Britain has been a tremendous influence for good, and I believe that we can have an even greater influence in this area. It is true that the Labor Party's policy and the Government's policy have traditionally followed the same lines. Today we see vast changes in many areas, but I still believe that the great majority of the genuine Labor people in Australia support the policy that was enunciated by Arthur Calwell. 
Today we have many policies on immigration. I am not quite sure what is the policy of the Leader of the Opposition because I did not have a chance to read tonight's newspapers. But I know that all the statements which he has made have been based on unashamed opportunism in an attempt to receive political gain from this very important question. I remember how inept this man was in a campaign in Hume when he brought pop singers to play to the peasants in Hume, as he put it, and got the biggest drubbing he has ever received in his life. Here again, in an attempt to gain political popularity he has fallen down on his face again because the Australian people do not want his immigration policy or the policy of so many others who have expressed variations of Labor's policy. As a matter of fact, I do not believe that the Australian Labor Party has an immigration policy today, because it has left the policy of the right honourable member for Melbourne and the honourable member for Grayndler. That was an Australian policy and that was the pol icy that most Australians want to see. I think perhaps one of the most disastrous statements ever made by the Leader of the Opposition was the one referred to by the Minister for Housing. The Minister said: 
Hitherto, migration was always judged to be a necessary and -welcome addition to our national increase. Children born in Australia were always the first migrants. 
We all agree on that. The Minister continued: 
The Leader of the Opposition has now adopted a policy for a Labor Government to persuade people to have fewer children. He wants a smaller Australian family - not his own, of course, but for others. Nevertheless, migrants from whatever source are to be encouraged. They will be in that environment a substitute for our national increase. The deletion of the population requirement from the Labor Party platform proposes this effective substitution. It is simply un-Australian. 
I do not believe, and I do not think any genuine Australian patriot could believe, that the Australianbom child should be discouraged while uncontrolled migration be encouraged. The development of a genuine Australian sentiment from a vigorous Australian people would be ruined. 
I think we all agree that the Australianborn child is the best migrant we could possible have. I believe that the honourable member for Grayndler still has the support of the majority of the people in his own Party. Immigration is an important problem. It affects every Australian. It affects his social life; it affects his standard of living; it affects his job. To adopt the policy put forward by the Leader of the Opposition would be to endanger this standard of living, to endanger this social life that we hold in such reverence and respect. It would be to endanger our working conditions and, above all, it would build up resentment among other people, as it has done in the United States of America. 
We Australians have established an immigration policy to give us a homogeneous society, and we are determined to maintain it. I believe that to maintain this homogeneous society we can do much more good in this world by not letting in people whom we cannot integrate into our society. To do so would destroy very largely our ability to interest people from those countries in our immediate vacinity to come here. I believe that this policy, as originally enunciated by the right honourable member for Melbourne and supported by the Labor Party and the Country Party over the years until just recently, is the policy that best suits this country and the policy that would give this country a strength to stand and take its place as the leading nation in this part of the world. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as a part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That, the Government go beyond the plea of the Prime Minister for magnanimity and compassion in the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on charges of treason, and insist on the liberty of this openly and democratically elected leader. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray.  Petition received. 
In rising to support this Bill I would first like to point out that the purpose of the Bill is to give effect to certain recommendations made by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development and agreed to by the House. I think that when we look at the terms of the amendment we want to be very careful. This Committee was set up by the House of Assembly with a membership of 14, 10 being indigenes. The  Chairman  of the Committee,  Mr Paulus  Arek, MHA, is an indigene. The Committee made its recommendations. I think we should be very careful in giving directions. This is something which sometimes the Opposition is prone to do, to direct the people of New Guinea as to what they should do. I can assure honourable members that they know this. As a result of the recommendations of this Select Committee on Constitutional Development the Government is preparing to grant full internal selfgovernment during the period 1972-76. This will depend largely on the attitude of the new House of Assembly which will be selected in February. 
It is interesting to note that provision is made for an increased membership of the House of Assembly - in the open electorates from 69 members to 82 and in the regional electorates from IS to 18. Provision is made to change the name from the Territory of Papua and New Guinea to Papua New Guinea. The membership of the Administrator's Executive Council, as recommended by the Committee, will comprise the Administrator, 10 Ministers and 3 official members. There will be 17 Ministers in the House to replace those members who previously were called ministerial members or assistant ministerial members. They will have the authority that they have been exercising actually since about August 1970. There will be 18 regional members elected by the people, 82 open electorate members also elected by the people, 3 members nominated by the House of Assembly for special purposes and 4 official members appointed by the Governor-General on the Administrator's nomination. Because the Australian Government will remain responsible in certain areas, such as defence, it is important that there should be members who understand the position and who can watch it not only in our interests but also in the interests of the people of Papua New Guinea. It will be imperative that any nominated member has been resident in Papua New Guinea for at least 5 years so that he understands the local position. As I have said, the Bill gives effect to the change of name in all legal documents. 
This Bill marks a dramatic forward move in the development of Papua New Guinea towards nationhood and it is as the result of the remarkable progress that has taken place over the last 30 years. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  referred to the tremendous changes that have taken place. It is almost 30 years since I first knew Papua New Guinea and it is unbelievable what has happened during those years. It is even more remarkable how that development has accelerated in the last 8 years or so. On a recent visit to New Guinea 1 visited a number of areas in the Gulf country where there has not been as much development as there has been in other localities. The Gulf country possibly does not have the natural resources that are present in the highlands. The Gulf country is backward but recently has been developed by outside sources, but it has noi made much progress because the inhabitants feel that they do not have natural advantages. However there is tremendous potential. The people of Papua feel that in many respects they have been left on the way. They believe it is necessary that they should reach a higher state of economic development before complete independence is achieved. There is potential for fishing in the area and a considerable quantity of fish is being air-freighted from the area at the moment. Many local people are taking part in this enterprise. There is potential for the development of a cattle industry and for the breeding of pigs. There is potential for rubber production. Help is definitely needed in the Gulf area where this potential exists. In that area is one of the greatest reserves of natural gas in the world and some day this must be of tremendous benefit in securing export earnings. Oil research is proceeding, as is copper research. I visited Kennicott's copper deposit. The ore there is much richer than the ore on Bougainville but it is difficult to get at. There is potential for timber and for the production of wood chips. Palm oil is being produced at Cape Hoskins and in other areas. 
In the Highlands tea, coffee and cocoa are grown successfully by the indigenes and there is potential for quick development and the indigenes are making full use of it. I believe that there is a tremendous need for extension offices in Papua New Guinea. 
Even in Australia great difficulty is experienced in getting across to the man in the field the findings of o.ir scientists and our officers in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization and Agriculture Departments, but there is a far greater need for such a service in Papua New Guinea. There are experts in Pap-ia New Guinea but there is a dearth of people who can falk to the farmers in their own language and assist them with the marketing of their produce. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  and I visited Tapini where vegetable!, are grown. The indigenes could get these to Port Moresby at quite reasonable air freight rates if they could only organise themselves, but they seem incapable of doing this. Freight planes arrive with cheap freight rates provided but can get only half a load. We need experienced officers to help these people. Over the years a number of nien experienced farmers who have set their families up, have come to me saying that they would like to give service somewhere but they cannot get appointments because they do not have the necessary qualifications, yet some youngster, who has come out of university with no idea of practical problems, secures a position. The practical men could have been used to apply scientific findings in helping the people of Papua New Guinea. 
The Papua New Guinea Development Bank is performing a tremendous service. Also of considerable benefit are vocational centres. The honourable member for North Sydney and I saw a number of these centres which are doing a worthwhile job. A number of children who have finished their primary education cannot be accommodated in secondary schools and they tend to get into trouble. They are easy meat for the troublemakers, and there are troublemakers in Papua New Guinea just as there are in every community. There are more than 3,000 vocational centres and they are serving a worthwhile purpose. When I was returning from New Guinea I travelled with an American educational officer who had spent some time examining these vocational centres. He was high in praise of them and said that nowhere in the Pacific was there anything to match them. He was returning to the Pacific and said that he would tell his Government that it should study what Australia was doing in these vocational centres to help young people, for whom there were not the right kind of jobs, to do something worth while. Once a lad has been educated he does not want to return to his village to plant sweet potatoes; he wants to do something that makes demands on him. The vocational centres are helping in this regard. Throughout the Gulf country are people with outboard motors half of which are out of action because no-one knows how to repair them. Some of these young people could be trained as mechanics to repair and keep motors operating. 
After listening to the last speech I am not surprised that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  made his comment at the Launceston Conference about the experts in his Party. It is quite understandable. Tonight 1 want to deal with another side of the question altogether. While I support the Bill in principle I want to protest very strongly about the elimination from this benefit of the second largest cooperative cannery in New South Wales, which is in my electorate. Here is a cannery that has made an effort to diversify and improve its return. Today it is trading quite satisfactorily, except for the longterm, hard-core debt in which it is involved largely by the action of other less efficient canneries. 
The Mountain Maid factory at Batlow claims that the Commonwealth Government has drawn a line through the electors of New South Wales by assisting only one of the 2 big co-operatives in New South Wales on an unjustified premise when the financial situation of the 2 factories is very similar. The Mountain Maid Cannery is just as entitled to Commonwealth assistance as Letona was. In some ways it is more entitled to assistance because it has been a more efficient factory in many ways. The whole town and district of Batlow are dependent on the cannery for their livelihood. The success of the cannery is most important to a whole rural community. The financial problems facing this factory are exactly the same as those facing other factories that have received assistance. As far as one can discern, the reason given by the inter-departmental committee for not granting assistance to the Mountain Maid Cannery was that it did not depend on deciduous fruits. I do not know what apples are if they are not deciduous fruits. 
This factory at Batlow made serious attempts, back in the days when we were in trouble with exports, to graft on to the types of pears it could not export other types of pears and changing over to other types of fruit so that it could enter the local market. Today we find that Batlow is selling most of its fruit on the local market through its own efforts to diversify. The people of Batlow feel that they have had a pretty raw deal. I appeal to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Government to have another look at the Mountain Maid Cannery. It is the second largest employer of labour in southern New South Wales. Each year it pays out over $lm in wages and over Sim to growers in the area for raw material. Batlow is a one hotel town - in other words, a small town. With the exception of the State Forestry Commission it depends almost solely on the cannery and the packing house there for its livelihood and its prosperity. 
The factory has been canning fruit for a long time. When it became difficult to sell certain varieties, the factory diversified by grafting and changing the varieties. That is the reason that it has been able to carry on reasonably successfully. The bulk of its market is not for export. Three-quarters of the other factories have been caught without the same long range view. The Batlow factory has developed a local market for its fruit as well as markets in the Near East and in the Pacific. I believe that the Mountain Maid Cannery is entitled to support. While I strongly support the Bill I want to get the point across that Batlow, because it has justified itself by its efficiency, has been excluded from the support that the other factories have received. This factory needs it just as much as they do. In fact, it can justify such support on economic grounds to a much greater extent than other factories can. I appeal to the Minister and to the Government to have another look at the position at Batlow. 
The whole community depends upon the factory. They do not can only fruit at Batlow. They can peas, beans and asparagus. The largest area of asparagus in the southern hemisphere is grown at Gundagai and canned at Batlow. There is more than just the canning of fruit dependent on the success of the Batlow cannery and packing house. I support the principle of the Bill in giving assistance to canneries on which the livelihood of so many country people depends. But 1 appeal to the Government and to the Minister to support an industry that, by its own efforts, is more successful than those that are receiving support. 
I rise to support the Bill, which provides for a substantial increase in unemployment benefits. This is distinctly in line with the Government's policy, over a period of 23 years, of full employment, during which period the salaried workers and the wage earners of this country have enjoyed a Fishig prosperity never before seen here. Today the working man has a belter home. He has a car, television, radio, refrigerator and all the things that he did not have under a Labor government some 23 years aso. This Government's deliberate policy of providing full employment has been successful right through the years. Today there is a degree of unemployment - fortunately, not large as yet. At 2.3 per cent it is one of the lowest in the word in comparable countries. 
Unlike the Chifley Government, this Government did not proceed to cut pensions to deal with the unemployment. It increased the unemployment relief. That is a different action altogether. The Government is taking measures to assist people under what it believes is a temporary situation. The unemployment has been brought about deliberately - not by the Government but by a few extreme left wing leaders who are misleading many honourable members on the other side of the House. They are the real masters of the present leaders of the Australian Labor Party, and they have a vested interest in unemployment. This Government would have much to lose if unemployment rose; the Opposition would have everything to gain. No decent person wants to see unemployment. There is nothing more demoralising than to see a man with a wife and family who is unemployed and looking for work. I know that the majority of the honourable members on the other side of the House agree wholeheartedly with that contention. They do not want to see unemployment. But the danger is that they are. willingly or unwillingly, being led by those who have a vested interest in unemployment and who are trying to create in this counory, with all its prosperity and potential, a depression atmosphere. They are trying to exaggerate the position. Many of them cheer every time more people go out of work. 
Quite recently the Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament came to my electorate ostensibly to look at the unemployment position. That is an area where there is very little unemployment. I have been to every shire clerk and town clerk in my electorate and 1 know what I am raying. There is very little unemployment there. He did not go to the areas where there is some unemployment - out in the far west, where the economic conditions requiting from the fall in the price of wool have created unemployment. He came to my area because there is a revival of confidence and he wanted to block it. He wanted to paint as black a picture as possible because he was afraid that the true position would militate against the Labor Party's chances of winning in the next election. My strongest criticism of my own Government is that it has not taken strong enough action against the disruptionists, the ones who are trying to cause unemployment for their own ulterior motives. 1 think we ought to look at the real cause of rising costs and the lowering of purchasing power. I have said repeatedly that inflation bears hardest on the average wage earner, the pensioner, the man on a fixed income and particularly the superannuitant who through thrift and sheer hard work sought to provide for his old age.  His  savings have been eroded and he is not able to live decently. What are the real causes of the lowering of the purchasing power of these people and of the wage earner generally? Firstly, unquestionably the greatest cause is a wage increase without an equivalent increase in productivity. Every farmer knows that the more money you can pay the working man the better. Every businessman and every manufacturer knows that the wage earner has the greatest purchasing power in this country. But you cannot go on paying increased wages without an equivalent rise in productivity. If wages do rise without that equivalent rise in productivity somebody has to make up the difference, and that somebody is the buyer of the goods, the housewife. The wage earner himself is the greatest sufferer. 
The loss of productivity through engineered strikes results in higher costs, higher prices and a loss of purchasing power. A 35-hour working week, as advocated by many honourable members opposite, would increase costs tremendously, ft has been estimated that it would increase costs in city areas by 12 per cent and in country areas by at least 20 per cent. For example, a councillor of the Northern Riverina County Council in my electorate said that a 35-hour week would force the council to increase the cost of power to the consumer, the housewife, by at least 20 per cent. Again it would be the working man, the wage earner, who would be the loser. Let us not forget that it was  Mr Hawke  who said that 1971 would be a year of strikes. He se' out to make it that. He has been much more successful than even he hoped he could be. He said that it would be the year of the 35-hour week, and he. did all he could to force that through. 
What is more interesting and has a tremendous impact on people in the rural areas is what  Mr Hawke  said regarding farmers. He said that 1971 would be the year of the 35-hour working week and that he would resist all efforts to use arguments about the cost price squeeze and its impact on farmers as a reason to hold down wage levels. He went on to say that some farmers were in financial trouble, but these were solely small and inefficient marginal producers without whom we would all be better off. That is interesting to people in my electorate. It shows his complete ignorance of the average farmer and it shows what he thinks of 'he primary producers. I would like to know of one industry today that, with today's costs and receiving the prices of 20 years ago that the farmer is getting, would be solvent. A great many of 'he farmers today are extremely efficient. Of course it is in the best interests of the primary producers, the manufacturers and the businessmen that the wage earner be paid 'he highest possible wage, providing he is earning it. It is when  Mr Hawke  and his left wing disruptionists, and sometimes big business, give wage rises without an equivalent increase in production that we destroy the purchasing power of the people and of this nation. 
At the present time we do not have a really big problem. It is one that we can deal with by giving assistance to those who are temporarily unemployed. But if we do not deal with the disruptionists we will have a major recession. I believe that the Government must take a firmer stand in dealing with those who are trying to create such a position. This nation is basically prosperous, compared with any other country with an equivalent standard of living. Our balance of trade has never been higher. Our banks and savings accounts are at an all time high. Most of them belong to working people. The wool market is very much better and promises well. The wheat situation has changed dramatically for the better. Meat markets are opening up everywhere. New markets for coarse grains and oilseeds are becoming available all over the world. Air freighting of fruit and vegetables is being developed From my own area we are freighting fruit to South East Asia and even to London. But all these export industries, both manufacturing and primary, will be in jeopardy if we allow these rising costs to go on without the equivalent increase in productivity. Export earnings are vital to the prosperity of everybody in this country. 
I appeal to the genuine Labor men - there are not too many of them left now as we are getting so many of the new academics on the other side who have an entirely different approach - to see that this white-anting of what was a once great Party is stopped. I appeal to them to cease supporting the attitude of creating unemployment for political ends. By promoting frivolous rolling strikes and go-slow policies the left wing element is trying to promote misery and want, because that is the only way that they will be able to succeed. This is a country with untold resources and tremendous opportunity. It is surrounded by a tremendous potential market. Here we have a once great Party trying to promote an atmosphere of destruction, an atmosphere of despair. What is said is just not true but is said for political ends. Tt is time Australia woke up to what is being done, lt is time Australia woke up to the fact that there is no substitute for a fair day's work and to treat the employer as public enemy No. 1 and to do as little as you can for as much money as you can get out of him will destroy the purchasing power of the country. 
It is true that there is some unemployment including some in rural areas caused, by the world recession in the prices of primary products. But the picture is not nearly as serious as has been painted by those who have a vested interest in trying to destroy confidence. Confidence is a very delicate thing. Morale is a very delicate thing. If you destroy the confidence of those engaged in industry you will destroy the confidence of those from whom they would borrow and those who would assist them in developing this country. This is the last thing that we want to see. I believe that instead of handing out unemployment relief as a permanent cure we ought to look more seriously at providing major work programmes during this temporary period, lt is perhaps degrading to ask a man to do things such as clean the gutters in the streets when this can be done more efficiently by a machine. It is far better to start some major developmental work and give a man a decent self respecting job in which he can earn good money. These jobs could be provided by long term finance. 
I am thinking of such things as those which I have been trying to promote in my own electorate for a very long time such as the Tumut-Canberra road which would bring untold benefits to many people. This is something that would absorb any unemployed in that area. The provision of trickle irrigation in a place like Young which is the largest sweet cherry growing area in the world would result in saving many hundreds of trees that are lost and take 10 or 12 years to replace. It would level out production. The provision of better roads and bridges and other long term development projects would give worthwhile employment to people in the country until such time as the position rights itself, as it undoubtedly will, if we do not retain the better type of worker in the country, as the revival comes - it is coming in the rural areas: it will come there more quickly than it will in the city areas because generally country people know how to work - we will not have these workers when we need them and the whole nation will suffer. 
Australia is a wonderful country, as I have said before. It has a tremendous future. For over 23 years we have, had the greatest prosperity under a Liberal-Country Party Government. For over 23 years this Government has been able to provide full employment. For the first lime in 23 years there is a small degree of unemployment which has been created deliberately not by the Government but those who have a vested interest in unemployment. I have said this a dozen times and the more it is repeated the better, when we have calamity howlers and prophets of doom in this country who want to create this atmosphere for their own benefit: The Bill is a: temporary measure to provide work for those who want to work and to restore the confidence and morale of the people in this country - a great country which still has unlimited opportunities. There is no place for despondency. There is no place for those who would paint a picture of unemployement rising without any cure for it at all. I have much pleasure in supporting this Bill and congratulate the Minister and the Government on their timely action to relieve what is, I repeat, a temporary situation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is. truly responsible. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The knowledge of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  of the problems of Australia's rural industries is evident from the speech he has just concluded. He has no appreciation of just what is the position in country areas. It has been the deliberate policy of members of the Opposition to paint the picture as black as possible. We have had many calamity howlers and prophets of doom on the position in our rural areas. They have all painted a picture that is unfair and untrue. Our rural industries have just turned the corner and are on their way back. As one  moves  around the rural electorate one finds that confidence and morale is returning. There is an appreciation that the rural industries are on the way back, despite the attempts by all the prophets of doom to paint the picture as black as possible. 
It is ridiculous to say that the rural training scheme is not being made use of. It is repeatedly well advertised in every newspaper in the land. The scheme provides many opportunities for retraining. It is obvious from the remarks of the honourable member for Bendigo that he does not understand the position in the rural areas. Not all children of farmers want to go back onto the land. Many children of farmers are from the time they are at school training themselves for some other job. But those who remain on the land and work on it do not want to leave it. They have confidence in their occupation or profession and want to stay there. The Government has done a tremendous amount to assist those people who want to stay on the land. Over $44m has been spent on rural reconstruction and farm build-up. Many of these young men are taking advantage of this assistance. As I said earlier, not every farmer's son wants to go back on the land. For that matter not every coalminer's son wants to be a coalminer, not every butcher's son wants to be a butcher and not every teacher's son wants to be a teacher. God forbid that there would be another teacher, or for that matter, politician like the one who has just concluded his speech. That would be too much to put up with. 
There has been a definite returning of confidence in our rural areas. The honourable member for Bendigo showed a complete lack of knowledge and appreciation of the Constitution under which our Federal and State, system operates. To say that this scheme should have been operating months ago shows a complete lack of appreciation of the fact that it had to be approved by the States and no machinery had been set up, except perhaps in New South Wales, to deal with it. The amount of money which is to be made available to New South Wales has been already almost wholly committed. The Government is conducting another review of the situation and will consider the position in all its aspects - retraining in rural reconstruction, debt reconstruction and farm build-up. 
The plain, cold hard fact of life is that the Opposition has a vested interest in creating a depression atmosphere. I believe that there are honourable members on the other side of the House - fortunately not too many of them, but those who represent the extreme left - who throw their hats in the air every time there is another 1,000 people unemployed. Those honourable members on the other side of the House who are weeping tears over the problems of the rural community are the very ones who are creating the only real problem we have, that is, the problem of costs. The farmer has to use every device of every known development to improve his production but cost is his real problem. Yet we have people in this House advocating a 35-hour working week and an increase in wages without an increase in productivity, all of which puts up costs in primary industries which cannot pass them on. Yet these people criticise in this House a free training scheme that is available to farmers to enable those who want to be retrained to go into other fields. 
I have been around my own electorate fairly frequently lately and I have talked to every shire and municipal clerk in that electorate. There is not much unemployment available - there is some - and it is a tragic thing when we have unemployed people who want to work. I get more criticism in my electorate because there are so many no-hopers getting jobs than I do because there are other people who are in need of relief. There is not a lot of unemployment around the rural areas at the present time except perhaps away out in the far west and this has been created largely by an economic situation which has been out of the control of this Government and has been aggravated by rising costs which have tended to make it impossible for the farmer who cannot pass on these costs as is done in secondary industry. 
I deprecate the attempt to build an atmosphere of depression and to try to build up a story that this country is in a major recession. This is just not right. Our overseas balance of payments has never been higher. Our bank deposits have never been higher. There is a relatively small amount of unemployment. I have already said that anybody who has a heart at all would be sorry for the genuine man who is unemployed but our rate of unemployment is still the lowest in the civilised world. This country has tremendous opportunity for development to go ahead to prosperity again. But there is one lesson that Australians have to learn. They have to learn that there is no substitute for a reasonable day's work. Nobody in this country has to work excessively hard. Anybody who does a reasonable day's work in this country earns his money. Unfortunately a great many are not doing just that and this has put up our costs. 
The Government has provided tremendous support for our rural industries so we do not have a great need for retraining in this field. There are not so many young people in the country looking for retraining. The revival of the wool industry is a story that ought to be printed on the front page of every newspaper. The Australian Wool Commission has been a tremendous success but do we ever read headlines about it? There are plenty of headlines in regard to criticism of the Wool Commission. The Commission has sold almost 30 per cent of its stocks and it has made a very substantial profit on everything it has sold. The Commission had a support price of 36c a lb but the price is now 40c. It is a story of success, tenacity, determination and guts by the people who represent the rural people who are still important in this country. The wool industry is on the way back again. The wheat industry is sound today. Quotas do not really mean anything to most growers. Despite the attack on quotas by the so-called representatives of the rural industries who sit on the other side of this House the wheat industry is sound today. Quotas were brought in by the wheat industry itself. The meat industry is sound. There is a tremendous market development for our coarse grains and oil seeds. Today our produce is being flown all over the world. Of course, young farmers are not going to leave the industry. They are not going to be frightened out of the industry by the prophets of doom on the other side of this House. 
Honourable members opposite are very tender when we hit them where it hurts. The previous  speaker  in this debate, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  is one of those who helped to create a situation that has been of great detriment to the rural industries. To revert to one other very important scheme, the training scheme for widow pensioners, the honourable member for Bendigo completely misconstrued this scheme. He quoted the total number of widows in this country. Many widows have independent means but of the 5,500 widow pensioners, 3,500 have not only commenced but have completed their training. There are 1,000 different jobs for which they can be trained. I have in my hand a large list of the jobs. While the women are being trained they are being paid. They are also supplied with the materials and equipment. 1 have in my hand 2 sheets of paper setting out positions, professional and skilled, for which widows are being retrained. It is a complete misconstruction of the real situation to criticise this scheme which has been eminently successful. The retraining scheme has done a tremendous job. If people do not take advantage of it then unlike the Australian Labor Party we do not dragoon them into it. The Labor Party would dragoon people into it. The late Ben Chifley said: 'If we have not got enough workers on the Snowy we will send them up there.' That is what the Opposition would do with a retraining scheme. They would put people into a field on which the Opposition decided. I think it has been a frivolous waste of time to criticise in this House a scheme introduced by this Government which is already showing itself to be successful. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The most important thing about this debate is what it indicates about the present Australian Labor Party and its open support for communist aggression. I believe that the Australian people must be made aware of what has happened to this once great Party. It is a very different party from the one which was led by the Chifleys and the Curtins. They led a socialist party but, although believing in socialism, they put Australia first. It is a very different party today. Today the Party is dominated by the new left wing intellectuals and the communist unions. It continually follows the communist line, seeks to destroy our youth and advocates the permissive society, the relaxing of all laws governing decent behaviour, and free access to drugs. Recently in a television programme the Australian people gave a very clear indication of what they thought about that question. This is the Party whose Leader advised youth to break the law and to support violent demonstrations in the streets; one of whose leading members of this Party - a shadow Cabinet Minister - calls on the youth and the people of Australia to take to the streets and defy law and order in an attempt to destroy democratic government in this country. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. I ask: Following the recent discussion on immigration, can the Minister assure the House that there will be no change in the Government's policy of facilitating the reunion of families through sponsored immigration, while at the same time continuing the policy of Commonwealth sponsorship of migrants from countries from which there is no tradition of family sponsorship? 
I think we all agree that there is a need for some sort of an inquiry into this matter, but it may be that there is some difference of opinion as to what form the inquiry should take. There is undoubtedly a continuing problem of want in the community and I am afraid there always will be, for various reasons. There should be a continuing inquiry into this problem. The Department of Social Services has made inquiries over the years, as has the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I do not suppose that any Minister has shown more sympathetic understanding or feeling towards areas of need. The Minister has always been accessible to anybody who has had a social services problem or a problem concerning people in need and who has wished to discuss the matter with him. There is always an opportunity for representatives of the churches or for anybody else to go to the Minister or to his Department to discuss problems and to point out areas of need, but far too often people rush into print. I think that sometimes the needs of the Opposition force Opposition members to rush into print to make political propaganda out of something that should be treated far more seriously than that. 
I agree with the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  who said that housing is one of the greatest problems, but this is something that is not within the control of this Government. Housing comes under the control of State governments. Housing rental is a real problem, but it is much more serious in industrial areas than it is in country towns. Do not think that we do not have areas of poverty in our country towns. Many of these areas of poverty are surely man-made. That is something that we must continually try to understand and appreciate because the position is changing so often. The Government has a remarkable record in what it has done over the years to improve conditions of people in need. The Government has a record of which it can well be proud. I do not think any honourable member would try to claim that we have done more than we should have done or all that it has been possible to do but we have to do what we can with the means that are available to us. One of the great problems is that as fast as we improve conditions for people in need the cost of living goes up. The Opposition could not claim that it is not partly to blame for the increase in costs which always hits the pensioner, the superannuitant and the man on a low wage, particularly if he has a large family. Increases in the cost of living are caused by various factors, and events which have occurred in industrial areas have hit the pensioners more than events in any other area. The Australian Labor Party and its affiliates bear a great deal of the blame for the position which exists today. But despite all the efforts of the Government, there still are areas of need. 
Since this Government came into power way back in 1949 there has been a steady increase in the rate of pension, but there has been a much greater increase in the side benefits and all the other benefits which have been brought about by this Government to assist in this great problem of need and poverty. Let us look at the age and invalid pension. In 1949 the rate was $4.25. Today it is $18.25. Expressed as a percentage the total increase in the pension rate since that time has been about 329 per cent for a single person or 276 per cent for a married couple as against a 263 per cent rise in the cost of living for the same period. So unquestionably the pen sioner today is better off. We have just gone through a period in which we were continually told that there was industrial recession. What did this Government do? It raised the rate of pension to try to assist those in need. The action is very different from the action taken by the Chifley Government in a period of recession. That Government reduced the pension at a time when there was perhaps greater need. I do not think it is reasonable or fair - and I think most people would agree with me on this - to blame this Government and to say that it has done nothing about this matter. It has done a great deal more than any other government has ever done. It does not matter how one looks at this, it will be found that there has been continual improvement in conditions. 
For instance, take the case of a pensioner with a child. In 1949 no assistance was given to a person in this category. Today assistance is given for all children of pensioners. It has been raised from about $1 a week initially to now about $4.50 a week. Supplementary assistance for single, widowed or divorced pensioners has meant a tremendous amount to people who have had to pay rent. It has been raised to $2 a week. Many of us would like to see this additional assistance given also to those who pay rates. Sometimes they are worse oS than those who have to pay rent. Those who have to pay rates and maintain a home find themselves perhaps in a worse condition than those who have to pay rent. The Government has recognised the special needs of widows and divorced persons and has introduced a guardian's allowance where they have children. This has been extremely worth while. In many cases widows or pensioners are responsible for children, and this has helped immeasurably. That allowance was raised recently from $4 a week to $6 a week. This is quite a new form of assistance that has been given by this Government. 
Back in 1949 a widowed pensioner with 2 children who was renting the family home and was entirely dependent on the pension received a total payment of $5.15 a week. Today the maximum payment for the same family is about $35.25. The introduction of the means test and the gradual reduction of the application of the means test has been a tremendous benefit to pensioners and to those who are just on the edge of getting pensions. A lot of people just missed out over the years on being eligible for a full pension, and were in a worse position than those who were getting a pension. The gradual liberalisation of the means test over the period this Government has been in power has helped tremendously, as has the alteration of the application of the means test, to where it was based partly on income and partly on property, creating the merged means test. This has helped very considerably. 
Then came the introduction of the tapered means test, which helped those who had been thrifty in their earning years and tried to save and provide for their old age. This is an inducement to people to make provision for their old age, thus saving the Government the cost of keeping them and making more money available for those who definitely need assistance. The effect of this liberalisation over the years has been considerable, to the point where today a married couple can have an income of up to $46.50 a week or can own property worth $24,580 before they lose all rights to a pension of any kind. The introduction of a blind person's pension, which is not subject to a means test, has been of inestimable value and has helped a lot of blind people to rehabilitate themselves, in many cases, back into the community. These are the sorts of things this Government has been doing continually. The wife's allowance for invalid pensioners is another benefit that was introduced here. The wife's allowance has been steadily increased until today a maximum rate of $8 a week is payable. It is not enough: we agree that it is not enough, but there are limits to what you can do. 
Again, I say we do need an inquiry, a continual inquiry, to find out the areas of greatest need. I think that what the Opposition always tends to ignore are the many benefits that this Government has introduced in addition to the payment of a pension. The Minister listed a few of them. One is the Aged Persons Homes Act, under which the Government helps to provide homes on the basis that an institution contributes $1 and the Government contributes $2. This has been a tremendous benefit also in relieving the pressure caused by high rent. Another additional side benefit is the allowance payable for chil dren. Payment for hearing aids is another. Hearing aids are a very high cost item. I have mentioned supplementary rent payments. The Government has acted also on telephone, television and radio rates. All these things have helped. And do not forget that the Government now helps with hospital and medical benefits. It pays hospital and medical benefit fees for those who are earning up to about $30 a week. 
I believe that this Government has an excellent record. Surely it is not all we would like to do, but it is a record of progressive improvement and assistance to those in the areas of greatest need. It has been a serious attempt to improve the lot of those who really need assistance in this country where we should not have any widespread poverty but, as I have said, there always will be areas of poverty, often man-made. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen recent allegations by the honourable member for Riverina of widespread black market wheat sales in border areas? Will the Minister inform the House whether sales are taking place to the degree stated by the honourable member and whether these sales could lead to a breakdown of orderly international marketing of wheat? Additionally, can the Minister confirm the allegation that he is blocking efforts to determine the extent of racketeering in the insurance of wheat and the extent of wheat thefts from silos? 
My question is addressed  to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
The Minister will be aware that the Bureau of Transport Economics recently made a study of the need for a direct rail link between Yass and Canberra and found that there was no case at present for this link. Will the Minister ask the Bureau of Transport Economics to make a survey of the need for a 4-1 ane highway to connect Yass to Canberra to facilitate the passage of goods and people, the present Barton Highway being totally inadequate to carry the increasingly heavy flow of both goods trucks and passenger vehicles? 
Can the Minister for Trade and Industry say what effects would be likely to be felt by Australian industry and what would be the impact on our international trading position of adopting the apparent suggestion by the Reserve Bank of Australia that the Australian dollar should be revalued? 
I agree with the comment of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that this is one of the best Budgets that this House has seen for many years. It is an excellent Budget indeed. It is a Budget for the average man; it is a welfare Budget. I pay a tribute to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is sitting at the table for the tremendous effort he put into making this an average man's Budget and seeking out the areas of greatest need and doing his utmost to assist those areas. He has done it so successfully that even the public media which has endeavoured to attack the Government and the Minister has been unable to do so effectively. In other words, as the Sydney Morning Herald' said, the Budget pulled the rug completely from under the feet of the Opposition. The pathetic speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - surely one of the poorest speeches he has made in any Budget debate - is evidence of how completely this was done, that is not just my opinion but also the reluctant opinion of some of the public media. Perhaps the speech of the Leader of the Opposition was exceeded only by that of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who has just spoken but, after all, he is very inexperienced in this House and has a great deal to learn. 
As a representative of a rural area I was a little surprised at the attempts made by the public media to suggest that this was not a country man's Budget, I do not think I have ever heard anything more ridiculous. I wonder what the public media expect. I was even more surprised to see one or 2 rural newspapers and one or 2 very ill-informed leaders of rural industry take the same line. This Budget marks one of the greatest advances ever made by rural industries. It is to be found in the promise of the provision of long term finance for rural industries. This is something for which I and my colleagues have fought over the years and it is extremely significant. It is a vital need of rural industry in almost all its fields and I am delighted to see that the Government has recognised this. We are not asking for any gift; we are not asking for a handout. We are asking for the type of finance that suits our industry and which is vital for our industry. The attempt to suggest that the $20m which has been set aside will be the total amount is ridiculous. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget speech said: 
The Budget provides a sum of $20m to be appropriated for purposes of facilitating the increased availability to farmers of long-term loans. The measures to be adopted have still to be finalised; the intention is to bring down legislation in this session of Parliament. 
We are looking forward to the legislation which will give the industry that muchneeded finance. Primary industries in this country are subject to fluctuating seasons and prices and it is vital that we have this sort of finance. We are prepared to pay the normal commercial rates of interest provided the term of the loan is long enough. Short term finance is totally inadequate for the development of a property, to pay off debts or to buy equipment when there is the problem of fluctuating seasons and prices. I wish to quote  Dr Harris  again - I have quoted him over and over again. He said that a loan of $10,000 at 5 per cent over 5 years would mean the repayment of one-fifth of the capital each year and it would be necessary to earn 23 per cent on the capital to service the loan. That is quite impossible. That loan at the same rate of interest but over 10 years would require a return on capital of 13 per cent in order to service the loan. The same loan over 20 years would require an earning capacity of about 8 per cent on capital and if the loan were for 30 years the earning rate on capital would need to be  6i  per cent and this would enable payments of interest and repayment of principal. That is the sort of long term loan we are looking for and which we feel primary industry can justifiably receive. 
Unfortunately this sort of finance has not been available. I suppose we cannot blame the trading banks which have been restricted to charging  Ti  per cent interest on rural overdrafts when they can earn 20 per cent and better through advances on hire purchase. How many farmers have had the experience, no matter what the state of their overdraft, of going to their bank because they want to buy a tractor or some other necessary replacement plant and being informed: 1 am sorry, we have no finance'? They are sent around to the bank's hire purchase counter or to an associate company where they pay 12 per cent or 14 per cent flat, which is equivalent to 20 per cent. This alone would justify the Government in putting this provision in the Budget. Do not let us forget that rural exports still earn approximately SO per cent of our gross export income and about 70 per cent of the net export income of this country. 
The other provision in the Budget that has been of tremendous value to the primary producer has been the reduction of estate duty. It is the policy of the Australian Country Party to move towards the eventual abolition of estate duty. We believe that it is one of the great deterrents to progress and we can prove that governments actually lose money over a period through the loss of taxation revenue by the application of estate duty. Estate duty inhibits development and, of course, the 
Government loses in production and, therefore, taxation. It compels us to take out heavy life assurance which is tax deductible and this in itself reduces the funds available for development. Estate duty has broken up many a family property which has been run efficiently for generations to the great advantage of the nation, the district and the people in it. It has been one of the principal causes of debt reconstruction and any rural member will know that of the problems that come across our table debt reconstruction caused by the application of probate is one of the most important. One of the first things a bank manager says to a man who has to pay probate and is short of money is: 'I am afraid there will be no superphosphate this year'. Consequently down goes production again and down goes income tax revenue. The farmer cannot diversify because he cannot get the finance to do it and he cannot replace the plant which it is necessary to replace. I have seen properties on which noxious weeds and animals have got out of hand because there was no finance to employ labour to keep them in check. Estate duty forces the sale of properties. But to whom? The better improved the property is the more likely it is that some professional or business man will buy it to save tax. 
Death duties were introduced by the socialists to break up large estates and distribute wealth but it had the opposite effect because the wealthy and the owners of the large estates were able to take steps to avoid this. It has hit hardest of all the small business man, the small farmer and the provident wage and salary earner who has attempted to save something for his old age. It has caused the bankruptcy of some of the best citizens of this country and forced many of them to resort to debt reconstruction. It is an unjustifiable tax; it cannot be justified on any ground. The Federal Government has made a substantial move in the right direction. But Federal estate duty is only a fraction of State probate duty and we must now do all we can to persuade the States to reduce probate duty in the interests of the nation as well as the people who are the backbone of this country. Another thing that has benefited the primary producer tremendously, particularly the primary producer who wants to hand over to his family property that he has gained and built up Over the years by sheer hard work - incidentally, he paid taxes on any income earned - and who then has found that he is unable to provide for his family, has been the relaxation of gift duty. 
The Budget contains many benefits for the primary producer and I cannot understand the altitude taken by some people towards it. The Budget contains support for the woo] industry. I do not need to elaborate on the success story of the wool industry. Honourable members will recall the state of the wool industry not very long ago when we had a great fight to get sufficient funds to keep it financial and afloat. That fight has been more than justified. Today the wool industry is back on its feet. One of the attacks made on the Government for not providing more money for the primary producer related to a drop in subsidy. Why was there a drop in subsidy? It was because the wool industry did not seed a subsidy, the action of this Government having put the wool industry back on its feet. We set out to make our primary industries independent and able to stand on their own feet, and we have done this extremely successfully in regard to the wool industry. The Government is also supporting the wheat stabilisation plan. We know that this is a success story, despite the attempts of certain members of the Opposition to make wheat a political weapon. For political gain and for no other purpose they handed to the Chinese a stick with which to beat the Government. 
And the wheat grower. We have sold more wheat without China's custom than we have ever sold. China did not want our wheat. When I hear people like the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  talking about wheat being really political as far as the Chinese are concerned I want to know how he can explain the fact that the Chinese are buying increasing quantities of sugar. God help us, we must keep him out of China and out of Russia or he may mess that one up too. 
And get him out of sugar too. Sugar, steel, manufactured goods and equipment are all being sold to China in increasing quantities. Are they not political? What a ridiculous argument, but the honourable member for Dawson is still using it, and that is what astounds me. The future for coarse grains and oilseeds has never been brighter. The phosphate bounty will continue at $46m. This is a very vital part of rural production. In this country nothing is more important in most of our rural areas than the adequate use of superphosphate. The application of adequate quantities of superphosphate has made this country the great producer it is. The Budget refers to the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. The dairy industry will receive $33m and a support price of 34c per lb. Whichever way one turns, one finds that the Budget provides more assistance in more areas for the rural industries, which are now on their way back to prosperity. There is prosperity in almost every industry except tin and dried fruit where there is a peculiar problem. 
Large sums are provided for rural reconstruction - an increase of $16m - and for debt reconstruction. As I said before, there have been many reasons for the necessity for debt reconstruction. One of those reasons was probate and estate duty. Let me refer to one of the things that debt reconstruction has done. I have seen this and I am sure that all honourable members who live in and represent rural areas have seen this. I have seen a man who has been demoralised because he owed money to people in bis town or village, to the suppliers of all the commodities he required. The reason for this may have been probate; it may have been buying at the top of the market, with the approval of the financial institutions. They come out from under now, but they approved at the time. It may have been a run of bad seasons; it may have been a drastic drop in the price of his product. This man has been taken up by the Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales and given what we are asking for - in effect, a long term loan. He is given 20 years to repay that loan.  His  small debts are paid. He has been able to walk up the street and look the tradesmen in the face. He has gone back with new enthusiasm and new energy to work his farm, and he is working better than he has worked it for years. Surely that is tremendously worth while. 
Perhaps the most useful part of the rural reconstruction programme has been in the farm buildup area. We believe that it is a permanent cure. Through over-subdivision - the socialist governments have a lot to answer for here - we have been in trouble over and over again, particularly after the First and Second World Wars when unpractical theorists in our departments based the size of too many rural properties on what they considered was a living area when the seasons were good and the prices were high. That is just not normal in this country. Dry periods and fluctuating prices are the normal thing in this country. Almost all of our settlement schemes have been in trouble because the margin has been much too narrow. What we are endeavouring to achieve in farm buildup is to help the man who is in an impossible position or is too old and would sooner get out, to sell his farm to the younger man who can make what was an unviable area a viable area. I am always amazed when I hear members of the Opposition opposing this sort of thing. Do they want to see a peasant population in this community? We cannot condone a peasant population in the rural industry when we have such high wages and such a high standard of living throughout most of our country. 
We want to see closer settlement, redesigned and redeveloped on a realistic scale so that those who are involved in it can do an effective job. We want to see a living area that makes it possible for a man to live decently and to repay what he owes. Some of the best citizens this country has had, some of whom went overseas and fought in 2 world wars, have had their hearts and their pockets broken by the sheer stupidity of theorists, bureaucrats and unpractical people who tell the other fellow how to do it when many of them are in the departments because they failed on their own properties. I do not condemn all of them but I condemn a great many of them. The people who built up this country in its hour of need, who fought for it and who have improved their properties were all the time up against an impossible problem because of the small areas in which they were involved. Under farm buildup in the Budget we now have 30-year terms. As I said earlier, long term finance for rural industries is a vital need in this country. Again I emphasise that we are not asking for a subsidy. We are not asking for a handout. We are not asking for cheap money. We are asking for the sort of money that this industry needs, and needs urgently. 
If this Budget has done nothing else for the primary producer, the promise by the Government that legislation will be enacted before the close of this session to provide long term finance at reasonable rates of interest for the primary producer, will have done something extremely worth while not only for the primary producer, not only for all the people who live in the country towns and who depend on it, but also for the nation. The primary producer is still the most important single economic unit in this country. I strongly' support  thi  Budget. There is much more I would like to say. I hope to have a' chance to speak on social services in the Estimates debate because I have been closely involved with the Minister for Social Services and I know what effort he put into it. I am delighted with what we have been able to achieve. I believe that this is one of the best Budgets that this country has seen for many days. 
It is with pleasure that I rise to support both the Bills before the House today. They mark a very definite advance in the Government's programme of assistance to the aged and the frail aged. Already it is a programme of which we can be proud and one that has entailed the spending of a tremendous amount of money. The need to provide accommodation in the many fields involved is very important indeed. Many organisations have taken advantage over the years of the Government's $2 for $1 subsidy. It has been of tremendous assistance to many of those organisations. One of the very good features of these Bills is the provision of assistance to those organisations which already have proved their ability and their desire to do all that they can to assist with the provision of accommodation for the aged. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  said that the Government had provided money that had not been spent. Let us just get that into perspective. It is up to the organisations to apply for that money. If they have not applied then it cannot be spent. The Government is always prepared to approve an application provided it meets the requirements. I am reminded that back in 1967 when we were discussing the legislation which extended the $2 for $1 subsidy to local government bodies, the Opposition delayed the legislation for more than 6 months because it claimed that it was not specifically spelt out in the legislation that industrial unions could benefit from the $2 for SI subsidy. I remember very well that the then Minister pointed out that that was not so, that there was provision for industrial unions to obtain the subsidy. However, the Opposition held up that legislation for 6 months. It is rather significant that, as far as I can discover, no industrial union has ever applied for a subsidy. So I think the honourable member's criticism was rather uncalled for and unfair on that point. 
I wish to deal with the increased subsidy for nursing homes. This is something, of course, which has been needed urgently for quite some time. Many organisations which provide nursing homes and assistance for the aged are faced with great difficulties because of rising costs and increased wages. I feel that the personal care subsidy is an important part of this legislation. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  very carefully spelt out in his second reading speech that in order to qualify for this subsidy it will be necessary for these homes to provide meals, to employ sufficient staff to help the residents who need assistance with bathing and dressing, the cleaning rf rooms and so on. lt is important to note that this subsidy will be paid to homes caring for people over 80 years of age and also for any other aged persons who need particular care. Again this will involve the Government in substantia] expenditure. The increased subsidy should provide something over and above the cost to the hostel of accommodation and other expenses for each patient in the home. It should allow for some pocket money, which up to date too often has been missing. The Aged Persons Hostels Bill is a timely piece of legislation. It will bring a tremendous amount of relief in this area. 
As honourable members know the Government has over the years provided assistance in relation to 3 types of accommodation: Firstly, for self-contained units, which assistance has been a tremendous success; secondly, for hostel type accommodation, which has not been taken up to a great extent due, I think, very largely to the cost of servicing this type of accommodation and paying for the staff; and thirdly, assistance for nursing home accommodation. There has been a tremendous increase in nursing home accommodation. Very often elderly people are forced to go into nursing homes because no hostel accommodation is available for them. A substantial number of pensioners would fall into the category of being better accommodated in hostel type homes. The Minister has estimated that about 50,000 pensioners - which is a large number of people - would be in this category. He said also that it has been estimated that the number of aged people needing accommodation is increasing at a rate of about 1,000 a year. The present method of subsidising homes on a $2 for Si basis will never catch up on the backlog unless urgent action is taken. 
Assistance for the provision of hostel type accommodation is specifically directed at increasing the availability of accommodation as soon as possible. It is well known that many nursing homes, particularly the hostel type, have large waiting lists, I know that in my own area there is great difficulty in getting accommodation for people in nursing homes and in hostel type accommodation. Many of the country hospitals are filled with geriatric cases who are accommodated at considerable expense to the taxpayers. In many cases it is unnecessary expense and these people are not in the best atmosphere. The Minister went on in his second reading speech to' point out very rightly, that a hospital or a nursing home is not always the best atmosphere for an aged person who still is reasonably active to be living in, and that it is much better for a person to look after himself as far as is possible rather than to be treated as a patient. We know that because of a shortage of staff there is a tendency - I speak from some experience on this because of my association with the situation - for aged people to be left in bed too long, not because of any lack of interest by the staff but because of the sheer inability to get them out and moving as they should be. The costs incurred in accommodating these people in nursing homes and hospitals would go a long way to providing hostel type accommodation. 
We are continually faced with the problem of a greater demand for accommodation for aged people. This is something that is part of what we call our developing civilisation, but sometimes I wonder about it. More and more people are unable or unwilling to provide for or to care for aged parents. The provisions in this Bill for home assistance will be a big factor in this regard. I think it is very good that we are encouraging people where possible, to keep their relatives at home. It is essential that where this is not possible we should provide accommodation for people who are not nursing home patients. Most of us know how aged parents enjoy their grandchildren; they are very very welcome in small doses but when they are continually around it creates friction in the home. Very often elderly people are much happier in a different environment such as a hostel type atmosphere where they are able to move about and take an. interest in everyday happenings. 
It is unfortunate that there is in some sections of the State departments a resistance to establishing hostels in country areas. People who have lived in the cities all their lives imagine that to go out into a country town is to go out to the bush or the scrub where there are no facilities whatsoever. I have in mind one proposed hostel which was criticised because no facilities were available for the people. It is situated about 100 or 150 yards from 2 substantial general stores; nearby is a post office, a public hall, a library, and even a hotel should anyone desire . to go there. How many hostels in a city would have facilities equal to or as convenient as those? .. . 
Another point I stress in regard to institutions located in country areas - and I am thinking now of one which is in my electorate, the Mount St Joseph Old Peoples Home in Young - is the part which is played by the town. This home has become the responsibility and interest of the town because it is the only large institution of this type in this town, other than the local hospital, which excites the sympathy and interest of the people of Young. The individuals in it remain individuals rather than members listed in a card index system. The nome itself has became the responsibility of the local people and there is human atmosphere about it. There are many senior citizens who, having gone to the city to work, are pleased to come home to the quietness and the sympathy and interest of people in a country area. I stress that there is a need and a place for hostel type accommodation in the country. 
There are many successful nursing homes in country areas which will be grateful for the assistance provided under this Bill. I am delighted to see the worthwhile financial assistance which will be provided in the provision of new beds and the purchase of furniture for new nursing homes. I think that this is a tremendously worthwhile provision for institutions which have already proved their interest and ability to look after aged people. These homes are being given an extraordinary amount of assistance to increase their ability to provide services for people. In other words, we are giving support to the tried and proven and those who have shown an interest. This is tremendously worthwhile. 
I know that the Minister and the Government want to get this legislation through as quickly as possible, and I know how urgent it is. There are many other aspects that one could deal with in regard to these 2 very worthwhile Bills. I conclude my remarks by saying that these Bills, particularly the Aged Persons Hostels Bill which provides for a 3-year crash programme, will provide something which has been desperately needed in this community for a long time; they will provide a challenge and an opportunity for many people to accept some worthwhile assistance for the frail aged and the people in our community who need assistance and whose numbers are increasing as a percentage of the total population. 
I commend the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  for the work that he has put into this matter. I congratulate the Government for supporting him. I do not think that we have ever had a Minister more dedicated to his portfolio. I speak perhaps with a little more knowledge than many because I am  Chairman  of the Government Members Social Services Committee. From working with the Minister and with that Committee I know just how sincere and keen he is and how hard he works to do all he can for those who are in need in this community. I have very much pleasure in supporting the Bill and commending the Minister and the Government for one of the most worthwhile measures that has been introduced in this Parliament for social services, atleast during my time in this House. 
Has the Minister for the Navy seen a claim in a new journal on military news that most of the Royal Australian Navy fleet is obsolete? How true is this claim? ls the fleet currently effective in dealing with sophisticated threats? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Has the Department of the Interior agreed with the State governments to control the number of laying hens in the States and in the Australian Capital Territory? Has the Department agreed to licence a New South Wales poultry farmer to set up a large poultry farm in .the Australian Capital Territory? Was this poultry farmer refused a licence in New South Wales to increase greatly his number of laying hens in that State? Would not the granting of this licence defeat the purpose of the agreement between the States and the Department to limit total egg production in Australia? Is the Minister aware that the Young district in my electorate is a large supplier of eggs to Canberra and that the licensing of this New South Wales poultry farmer would greatly jeopardise the livelihood of a great number of poultry farmers? 
I address a. question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Did he in a recent statement say that the Federal Government was developing, in consultation with the States, a programme for further improving the national highway system? Did the Minister also say that our major interstate links did need considerable improvement? Will the Minister press for an up-to-date assessment of the already surveyed Tumut-Canberra road? Is he aware that such a road would provide a shorter and more direct route to Canberra from Victoria, South Australia and the Riverina? Does he not agree that a direct Canberra-Tumut road would become a major interstate link and would relieve pressure upon Australia's busiest and most dangerous road, the Hume Highway? 
