 I am pleased to be the first elected member of this Parliament to represent an electorate which bears the name of Holt. Up to the time of his tragic death in December 1967 few names would have been better known throughout Australia and indeed the Asian countries than the name of Harold Holt. I am sure the people of my electorate are deeply aware of the honour that has been given to them which will perpetuate the name of a much loved and respected Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia. I also feel it is appropriate that I should spend the first few minutes of my maiden speech and join with other honourable members to record my allegiance to  Her  Majesty the Queen. As head of the British Commonwealth, the Queen is a source of hope and inspiration to many people and it gives me very much pleasure to have this opportunity of expressing my continued loyalty to her. Without a doubt, Great Britain and, for that matter, Australia and many other countries, are passing through a difficult period - a pagan one where the great emphasis is on materialistic gain. Of course, the more of these things we get the more we want and the less time we have for the more important things in life. 
Many people today say that Britain is on the way out as a country of power and influence. I well recall many people saying this in the early days of the last war and we all know what happened then. As a matter of fact, people have been saying or making this statement for a century or more. But the fact remains that Britain survives and continues to play an ever increas ing part in world affairs. Surely the quality that makes a country great is our loyalty and allegiance to each other and our loyalty to the Queen. These precious things are going to live on long after all our materialistic possessions have disappeared. Britain has handed down great traditions over the years. This is a challenge that the young people of the British Commonwealth countries must face up to. It is entirely in their hands. We have a young Queen in a still younger Commonwealth who is setting a magnificent example of service unto others. All we need do is to follow her way of life. 
This leads me to speak of the changed pattern in world affairs and particularly of what is happening in Asian countries and our responsibility to people in these countries. Yes, we certainly have responsibilities towards those who have less. Each and every one of us has a responsibility. Today, too many people are inclined to turn their heads on one side and say that it is not their responsibility and that it should be left to the Government. This attitude, of course, has applied for far too long and it is one of the main reasons why a great deal has not been done to help the people in these countries. Never before have so many people in the world needed succour. Every day the story of their plight is told. They range from the aged and needy in our great cities to the hungry people of India; from the orphans in Vietnam to the victims of racial discrimination. 
I think the great danger lies in the fact that it no longer shocks us to know that these great tragedies are occurring. We are no longer shocked today to know that ten thousand people in Asian countries died of starvation and neglect and that another ten thousand will die tomorrow and so on. Out of every 20 children born in many of these countries 10 will die in infancy and 7 out of the remaining 10 will be stunted both mentally and physically for life because of malnutrition in childhood. Only 3 out of 20 survive the ravages of hunger. When we take time off to think about this situation we tend to shrug it off without any thought of personal commitment. We tend to sit back and wait for someone else to act or to see what the government or governments will do about it. Today we must realise that our true destiny lies in Asia. If we wish to continue to live in peace and harmony and maintain our high living standards it is so essential that we have strong independent countries to the north of us. It is so essential that we make great sacrifices to help the people of these countries grapple with their many problems of poverty, privation and neglect. 
Here 1 would like to direct my remarks to foreign aid, as I am sure that one of the best ways to win friends and influence people in these countries is through economic aid - that is, self help and practical assistance which will enable these people to help themselves more effectively. As  president  of For Those Who Have Less, a voluntary agency which sends livestock to these countries, 1 can speak with some experience on this matter. As the majority of the people in these countries are dependent on agriculture for a living, 1 think our major effort should be directed along the lines of agriculture and livestock. With the closing of the Suez Canal most of the Pacific and African countries are looking to Australia for good breeds of livestock. I envisage Australia within a few years as a huge stud farm from which the majority of these countries will draw good breeds of livestock to build up their herds and flocks. I predict a great demand for exotic cattle from Australia within the next 5 years. 1 instance a country like India, where approximately 80% of the population live in some 600,000 villages. In the majority of these villages life has not changed very much over the years. I know that some villages close to towns now have power and better communications, but speaking generally things have not changed a great deal. For most of the village people life goes on much the same. Their main objective is to live in happy family communities and to grow sufficient food to survive. Strong, independent and self supporting villages are so essential in India today. Everything possible must be done to retain the villages as separate identities. India's great strength lies in the village communities. Today these people are totally dependent on nature. When they have good rains, food is plentiful. When drought conditions prevail, food is scarce. However, on most occasions they are able  to  grow sufficient paddy and vege tables and receive sufficient bulk food. The diet is not a balanced one, as they lack protein. 
Help is urgently needed to provide animal protein. Of course, India has plenty of cows. As a matter of fact, India and Pakistan have half the world's population of cows, but those cows do not give very much milk. The cows are kept for three reasons. One is to produce motive power, that is, they carry something on their backs or pull a cart. They are kept also to produce dung, which is dried out and used as a slow combustion fuel. Milk is really a by-product of the other two operations. Naturally, the cows do not give very much milk. 1 venture to say that milk is the most important food item in India and in many of these other countries today, particularly insofar as the women and children are concerned, because there is just nothing to supplement the mother's milk. This is where the high mortality rate exists - not at the infant level, but after the child has been weaned, that is, between the ages of 1 and 5 years. It is here where help is urgently needed to produce better milk producing cows. 
Being aware of these factors, my Society has concentrated on sending good breeds of high producing cows to India and many other countries. Many good projects have been established in most States in India. Approximately 5 years ago we sent a consignment of Friesian cattle to Harringhata in West Bengal. The cows are kept purely for milk production and breeding purposes, but the bulls are used to upgrade the better types of indigenous cows. The progeny from these crosses greatly lift milk production. The hybrid vigour comes out in the cross, and milk production is raised to approximately 4 times that of the indigenous dam. Some 16,000 cows at Harringhata are being replaced with these cross animals as quickly as they can be bred. Two thousand of these cross bred cows will be in production by the end of June, and hundreds more are calving every month. The Indian authorities are so pleased with these cross animals that they have now been introduced in most States. 
Only 15 months ago the United Nations started a similar project at Harringhata. Here some 1,200 indigenous cattle were purchased, and these have been inseminated with Friesian and Jersey semen. It is the intention of the United Nations to evolve a new breed of cow. They are hoping to provide a cross bred cow that has fiveeighths exotic blood. No doubt this will take quite some time to produce because they will have to cross the crosses; but without a doubt they will eventually evolve a better type of cow. Similar cross bred programmes are under way in most Indian States. Many of the good bulls we have sent to these various States are used in artificial insemination centres. It is quite a common sight to see illiterate farmers walking their cows, when they come into season, 20 to 25 miles to have them inseminated with Friesian or Jersey semen because they know that if they get a cross bred calf it will1 mean more milk and more rupees. 
Similar programmes are under way with sheep and pigs. Here the females are kept purely for breeding purposes, while the male animals are used for upgrading. On my recent trip I was greatly heartened to meet in these countries so many keen, young, dedicated animal husbandry and agricultural people who are anxious to do something for their country. While they have this spirit these countries will show much progress in the field of agriculture. This is exactly what has happened in India and Pakistan in recent years. They have an abundance of these dedicated young people who are anxious to help their country. But good breeds of animals are needed to enable them to do this job effectively. India and, for that matter, all developing countries can overcome their hunger and unemployment problems only through a prosperous primary industry. One of the problems in the village area is that the farmers are working with unproductive animals - cows which give very little milk, pigs which are scavengers and sheep which cut hair and not wool. It is a matter of introducing new cross bred animals into the village areas. In this way farming will be more economical. The indigenous farmers will take greater interest in their livestock, which will in turn give them greater purchasing power and assist the economy of the country. Of course, all developing countries, particularly Australia, built up their secondary industries on prosperous primary industries. 
Many voluntary agencies have been doing very effective work in these countries for a great number of years. I would like to see any increase in the Colombo Plan funds channelled through those agencies which are assisting at a government level on self help projects. Large incentives are given today to industry and commerce. I am crf the opinion that the work which is carried out by the voluntary agencies in these countries is of equal importance for three reasons. Firstly, aid given through voluntary agencies is generally better utilised. Secondly, voluntary agencies are able to make direct contact with the private sector, which is where the great need exists. Thirdly, thousands of people work through these voluntary agencies and are able to give these projects the warm, human, personal touch which is sometimes lacking at a government to government level. 
The work which the voluntary agencies have been carrying out amongst the underprivileged people has been going on for many years and the assistance which has been given is considerable. Perhaps of equal importance is the encouragement and hope which goes with the assistance. Aid from voluntary agencies is able to penetrate into distant villages where government assistance is not always available. For this reason we must give them greater support. Therefore, I would like the Government to give urgent consideration to channelling a percentage of its Colombo Plan funds through agencies which directly assist foreign governments. The problems in these countries are great and challenging and must be faced up to for many reasons. On humanitarian grounds alone I think we must do more to assist the people in these countries. It was never intended for one moment that we should have most of the good things in life whilst so many millions of people do not have the bare necessaries to survive. Whoever set this world in motion never intended for one moment that there should be such a great disparity between, to put it another way, those who have less and those who have more. The sooner we do something about the matter in a voluntary and sacrificial way the better it will be. My second reason is that I think it is in our national interest that the living standards of these people be raised. Even if they are raised 5% in 10 years it would open up a huge potential market to Australia. My third reason is that if we wish to continue to live in peace and harmony and retain our high living standards it is essential to have a strong India today because no country could possibly ignore a nation of 500 million people, armed both morally and with a sense of purpose. Today approximately half the people of the world do not know where their next meal is coming from. In times of war I have seen Australians share their last cigarettes with enemy troops who but a few hours earlier had been trying to kill them. In the world today we have hundreds of millions of peaceful people who in the main bear us no grievance and who wish to be our friends, yet they are dying of starvation. If this is not throwing down a challenge to the people of Australia I do not know what is. It should certainly stir us out of our complacency. I believe it is the duty of our leaders, both religious and political, and the duty of our leaders in industry and commerce - trade union leaders, heads of schools, ex-service organisations and women's organisations - to throw down this challenge to all with whom they come in contact. 
I firmly believe that if Australians were presented with the real facts about what is happening in these countries they would take up this challenge just as readily today as they have done in times of other great crises. It is for this reason that I am pleased to have the opportunity to mention some of my thoughts regarding the people of these Asian countries. I should like to see the Government doing more along the lines I have suggested; that is, to channel a percentage of Colombo Plan funds through these voluntary agencies, because the great human problems of these countries must be faced up to in our time. 

 Mr BERINSON (Perth) [10.171-1 want to take this first opportunity available to me in the Parliament to thank the electors of Perth for their support and for the confidence they have expressed in the Party whose platform I represent. The recent surge of support for the Australian Labor 
Party in Western Australia has been remarkable both for its extent and for the circumstances and period in which is occurred. As recently as 1958 Western Australia had only one Labor member in this chamber. Today there are six. Last October our numbers here were doubled, and though these figures alone are, of course, significant enough they are all the more so for the fact that this increased Labor representation required the defeat both of the third ranking member of the last Government - the Minister for Externa] Affairs - and of a former Minister for the Navy. 
As impressive, however, as the extent of the swing has been, I want to suggest that at least equally significant are the economic conditions in which the swing has taken place. There is a view commonly held, and with a great deal of authority and experience to support it, that a government should always be secure in times of economic prosperity. The reasoning is that at such a time the public will support the status quo rather than risk any possibility of detrimental economic change. Yet over the past decade, over this period of increasing support for Labor and increasing antagonism towards the Government, the Western Australian economy has been extremely buoyant. This leads one to ask: Why should we have this apparent paradox? Why should a government lose support when all the external indicators suggest that it should in fact be gaining it? The answer involves many complex factors but I want to mention only two which continually came to my attention during the recent election campaign. 
The first was a sense of sheer boredom with the present Government and the second was an utter disillusionment with a prosperity which does not permeate to the average citizen. For years Western Australians have been assured by successive Liberal governments that they live in a boom State, in a State on the move. In an abstract and impersonal sense that is no doubt true. Enormous wealth has poured into the State and has been generated within the State over the past decade. However, the question is: Who has benefited as a result? The answer must be: Very few. Higher wages, increased, overtime and a mineral boom of staggering proportions have not produced a higher standard of living. On the contrary, this standard is constantly being eroded by increased prices and increased charges, and not least by the effects of Commonwealth Government policy. On the one hand, Commonwealth payments in areas such as social services, education and housing have been too low and have been inequitable; on the other hand, a scale of taxation at least 10 years out of date has made Commonwealth collections too high, and inequitable. 
The vote at the recent election was meant to be a rebuke to the Government and obviously has been accepted by the Government as a rebuke. It now remains to be seen just what the Government will do about it. If the Governor-General's Speech and the early Bills presented to the Parliament are an indication, it will not be doing nearly enough. The problems of the elderly and sick will not be solved by paying 10c a head to Meals on Wheels. The problems of land prices and rent levels will not be overcome by fiddling with the home savings grant scheme. Nor is it possible to have any realistic confidence in the proposed changes to the health scheme. In the judgment of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  - I refer to the Honourable Minister's statement at page 36 of yesterday's Hansard - the success of the amended health scheme depends on a suitable arrangement for periodic adjustment of fees and benefits. Yet almost in the same breath we are advised by the Minister that no such suitable arrangement has in fact been arrived at. 
I would like to leave the discussion of specific items of Government policy for other appropriate occasions in order to deal with some aspects of Commonwealth and State relationships. Let me introduce the subject in this way. In the recent election the Labor Party placed considerable emphasis on questions such as the cost of land and rent, education, hospitals and urban development, all areas the essential control of which lies with the State governments. After the election we were accused of in some way misleading the electorate by this concentration on what were said to be primarily State issues. Of course, the short answer to that charge is to be found by reference to other matters such as conscription, Vietnam and the means test, which we also stressed and which are clearly and purely of Federal concern. But it seems to me that this criticism of the Labor Party for its emphasis on so-called State matters should be answered in a broader way. What needs to be said is that in these days of State reliance on Commonwealth finance it is no longer realistic to discuss State and Federal responsibilities as though they are independent and exclusive. They are not, and the sooner we acknowledge this frankly the sooner there might be some prospect of our facing up practically to the future relationship of the Commonwealth with the States. 
In reporting the result of the Premiers Conference last month the 'Daily News' of Perth used on its billboards the headline: Shock For State Premiers'. The story was that the Premiers had requested at least a partial return of income tax powers and had been shocked at the outright rejection of the proposal by the Commonwealth. May I say that I for one would have been shocked had there been any other result. I simply do not believe that it is in the nature of political institutions to relinquish powers that they already exercise. I would go further and say that I do not believe that political institutions will refrain from increasing their powers when it is open to them to do so. 
This has in fact been the pattern in Australia, where we have observed an increasing Federal dominance of the system as Federal governments have come to realise the extent of the power which the Constitution, as interpreted, bestowed on them. This has been the pattern of political development in this country; there is no reason to doubt that this pattern will continue and personally I welcome that prospect. I welcomed it on the ground of economy; I welcome it on the ground of efficiency; I welcome it, above all, on the ground that the very concept of Australian nationhood requires that the needs, the problems and the demands of Australians should be met on a national rather than  on  a fragmented basis. 
It seems to me that too much of the discussion by the Premiers and others proceeds on an unsupported assumption that in some undefined way the interests of the nation will be better served by a return to greater States' rights and reduced Federal powers. It is easy but cheap and superficial politics to erect an argument and to attract public support on the basis of an appeal to parochial patriotism. But somewhere along the line we have to ask: Are we to be one great nation or six mini nations, and if the former why cannot our affairs be managed nationally and with a national outlook? The founding fathers of this nation bequeathed us a federal system. It was the right and, indeed, the only practical form of organisation to propose for 1900. But many things have changed since then; not least the fact that the federal system is simply not operating in the way that the founders anticipated. They foresaw a balanced partnership between the Commonwealth and the States whereas what has developed is a very lopsided relationship indeed with the Commonwealth clearly dominating the field. 
In this state of imbalance there are two alternatives open and it seems to me a pity that only one alternative ever seems to be considered. The first alternative is to attempt to correct the imbalance by reinforcing and renewing States' rights. The other is to consider a conscious and orderly transfer of power to the Commonwealth, especially in such areas as transport, education, health and housing, where the Commonwealth increasingly is required to foot the bill on matters over which it has no direct control. Until now most discussion on the subject has been restricted to consideration of the first alternative. That is natural enough because what discussion there has been has taken place at the State level where there are special interests to preserve. The argument most often raised against centralism at such times rests on an appeal to fear of control from distant quarters. Remoteness of the seat of government is equated with unconcern and unresponsiveness. Conversely, geographic proximity of the seat of government impliedly assures the reverse. This sort of view is common and popular but will not stand examination. 
I do not believe that our social services would be better if we had seven social service departments rather than one. I do not believe that our postal services would be more efficient or our defences more effective if each State had its own post office and army. On the other hand I do believe that this nation would have been far better served by one central railway authority than by the seven we now have. The same might be said of our roads, schools, hospitals, houses, companies administra tion, and drugs and poisons control to mention only a few. As well as the prospect of increased economy and efficiency which would flow from national rather than fragmented control there is a further and perhaps overriding advantage to be gained from a fusion of responsibility with financial capacity. 
Too often, legitimate claims for assistance are frustrated by a shunting process which has been developed to high degree by both State and Federal governments. This process has the Commonwealth saying that it would like to support a given appeal but that the matter is beyond its constitutional authority, and the States saying they would like to help and they do have the authority but please go back to the Commonwealth because only it has the funds. This cynical and frustrating procedure has been used time and again not as a reason but as an excuse for inactivity. Until 1961 it was used to excuse the Commonwealth from direct financial assistance to preuniversity education. Until the GovernorGeneral's Speech this week it was used to excuse the Commonwealth's refusal to assist with the training and treatment of spastic children. For years it was used to excuse the Commonwealth from participating in the upgrading and standardisation of Australian railways, and it was still relied on, as indicated in Hansard of 18th March of last year, to excuse the national Government from the provision of what is obviously a national facility, and that is a first class sealed east-west highway. 
I appreciate that in arguing for centralised authority in Australia one opens a wide and contentious topic, lt is also, if past experience is a guide, only a long-term though also a certain prospect. Let me argue then, in the short term, for at least this much: That the Government refrain from using its constitutional limitations to justify its inactivity in any given field. It is better to say that you do not want to, or do not feel able to use Commonwealth funds to assist spastics, or to attack land prices, or to make kindergartens free, than to indulge in what is now everywhere recognised as a transparent device. 
I come from a State which has always been conscious of its isolation from Canberra and the difficulties which can flow from that isolation. It is the only State ever to have determined by referendum to secede from the Commonwealth. But since then a war, a depression, advances in communications and transport and, not least, uniform taxation have made all such sentiments obsolete. 'Centralism' recently seems to have become a dirty word in some quarters. I do not know why. It involves nothing more or less than dealing with national affairs on a national basis. I regard that as clearly desirable. History suggests that it is also inevitable. We will be better served, however, if it comes as a result of conscious decision and planned development. I believe it is time to give serious attention to both. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Pettitt)  adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. With the rapid development taking place in the Westernport area of Victoria it is known that the Department of Civil Aviation is interested in reserving land for an airport in this area. A local newspaper has gone much further and has stated that land is to be earmarked in the Devon Meadows area for Melbourne's second international airport. As this statement has caused local residents much concern, can the Minister inform the House whether the Department of Civil Aviation has any plans for an international airport in the Devon Meadows-Cranbourne area? 
I wish to raise a matter which concerns me and, I am sure, the general public. Pilots employed by Qantas Airways Ltd again unjustifiably stopped work last week. The reason given is (hat they are being victimised and that their superannuation claims have not been met. I am sure there are few people who would sympathise with them. Their latest exercise shows complete contempt for the travelling public. I strongly condemn their actions. After all, pilots are well paid. A senior Boeing 707 pilot receives a guaranteed minimum salary of $18,700 per annum and works fewer hours than anyone else for it. [ am sure thousands of ex-Royal Australian Air Force pilots have read with complete disgust of the recent strike for increased benefits. If pilots are to receive greater remuneration it is reasonable that they should put in a greater effort for it. Pilots should realise that they are not the only ones who accept responsibility. There are many people who have far greater responsibilities at nowhere near the salary which pilots draw. With all of the modern navigational and safety aids available in aircraft a pilot's responsibility has been considerably reduced in the last 10 years. Further strike action by Qantas pilots must considerably reduce their prestige and would just about bring them into the same category as engine drivers. 
I might add - supporting the honourable member's remarks - that engine drivers also accept responsibilities. The Qantas pilot strike in 1966 cost $13m and any such repeat performance could be disastrous to our national airline. It would certainly not enable the airline to introduce cheaper fares for the travelling public; this is what the pilots should be working towards. If pilots take further strike action Qantas should consider cancelling its order for Jumbo aircraft, purchase a fleet of second-hand Constellations and make the pilots earn their money. We cannot afford such luxuries as strikes today, particularly from such a privileged group as pilots, whilst so many millions of people throughout the world need succour. The position in many overseas countries where some 10,000 people die each day from hunger and neglect is appalling, and far more must be done to help these impoverished people. The point that I am making here is that the Qantas pilot strike in 1966, which cost $13m, would probably have fed 100,000 people in India for 6 months. I think it is about time pilots realised they are a privileged group and should endeavour to look a little beyond their own self-interests. I am sure I speak for the majority of the public in condemning the unjustifiable strike last week. 
1 wish to make a few general observations on this Bill which I am sure will be welcomed by most dairy farmers who are in needy circumstances. However, I would like to have a few words to say, firstly, about the product - that is milk. I have often said that milk is nature's purest food. It has stood the test of time. Why people would want to replace it with a substitute I just cannot imagine. Milk is almost as essential to a growing child today as is the air he breathes. When one sees children who are deficient in animal protein, it makes one realise how fortunate we are in this country where milk and milk products are in plentiful supply. In many developing countries two-thirds of children die because of lack of animal protein. As I have mentioned in this House previously, if you take 20 children in a developing country, 10 die in infancy and 7 out of the remaining 10 are stunted mentally and physically for life because of malnutrition in childhood. Only 3 out of 20 escape the ravages of hunger. To me it appears to be a great tragedy that we are curtailing the production of milk in this country whilst it is so urgently needed in so many Asian countries. When one considers the price of milk today, which is 10 to 11 cents a pint, depending on the State in which you live, and compares it with the price of a bottle of soft drink, which is 15c, or a bottle of beer, which is 40c, it is out of all proportion when one considers the nutritional value of milk. The price of a pint of milk should be 25c at least. This is the true value of milk in relation to soft drink. If this price were paid butter subsidies could be substantially reduced. 
I will not attempt to go into the cost of production, but as most people know cows have to be milked twice a day, once in the early hours of the morning and again late at night, 7 days a week. Some people say thai if the price of milk were raised the demand would fall. However, this is not the case where soft drink and beer are concerned. Prices are increased but this does not have much effect on any increase in other commodities. People accept regular price rises in most commodities which could be included as essential goods. But today people do not so readily accept price rises for the essentials, such as butter, milk, bread and doctors' fees. Perhaps if people realised the health benefit of milk in relation to the other products I have mentioned, they would be prepared to pay a higher price. After all, farmers' costs have greatly increased over the years. Not only is milk worth 25c compared with these other commodities I have mentioned, but the farmer needs this amount today if he is to meet rising costs which is one of the difficulties many of them are confronted with. No dairy farmer who milks under 50 or 60 cows can afford permanent labour on his farm. 
Dairy farming over the years has been mainly a family effort. That is, each member of the family takes his place in the cowshed. I suppose the days are gone when children had to milk cows before they went off to school but in many dairy farms it is still a family effort that gets them by. Farm equipment has also greatly increased the overhead on dairy farms. The farmer who milks 50 cows cannot afford very much farm equipment. He could possibly afford a tractor, a plough, a set of harrows, etc., but then he would need to get a good utilisation out of this equipment. On the larger farms where there are over 60 cows to be milked - and when I say '60 cows' I am referring to dairy farms in West Gippsland - labour can be employed and additional farm equipment, such as harvesting equipment and irrigation equipment, can be purchased. All these things assist in putting farming on a more profitable basis. In my opinion one of the greatest factors in farm costs is that few farmers today grow sufficient crops even though they have the machinery available. I would say that at least one-third of farmers' overhead costs in the western Gippsland area is represented in the purchase of fodder. If all farmers on marginal farms grew their own crops marginal farms would be on a more profitable basis. 
There is also the problem of diverse weather conditions. If a property is without irrigation it means that during a dry autumn additional fodder may have to be purchased if no silage is available, and I have no hesitation in saying that rising costs and the purchase of fodder are the 2 major reasons why marginal dairy farms are in financial difficulties. I know the Department of Agriculture in Victoria has always encouraged farmers to grow more crops. However, it has been difficult to have plans implemented when they can go along and purchase their fodder from the store. Whilst, I suppose, the main factor in this legislation is to enable the marginal farmer to dispose of his dairy farm because of his limited acreage and for economic reasons, increased acreage in itself is not the answer. On many farms close to Melbourne - and many of these properties have been long established as dairy farms - it is becoming uneconomic to raise cattle because of high rates and taxes and because the farms have to compete with the local industries for employees. A more economic way is to bale feed the animals and grow crops. 
Dairy cattle are stabled in most European countries, in north America and in Asian countries such as Taiwan, the Philippines, Ceylon and Pakistan. In the main cattle in many of these Asian countries are stabled in long concrete sheds and the farmers have been able to obtain very good production from them even in a place like New Delhi where temperatures are very high. Some cows there have been producing up to 95 lb of milk a day and in many other centres they are giving between 40 and 50 lb of milk a day. But many of these farms are quite small. I recall visiting one of 100 acres in Hong Kong. All the cattle there, 1,200 of them, were stabled and a big percentage of the fodder was- grown on this 100-acre area. It is quite an economic proposition to stable animals providing the fodder is grown on the property. I would like to see the Departments of Agriculture in some States encourage the stabling of dairy cattle in order to obtain a better utilisation of acreage. The economics of it all must surely be to grow more fodder on the farm, and the point I am making here is that there is room in the dairying industry today for the small efficient dairy farm provided animals are stabled and crops are grown on the property. It is generally recognised, however, that there is a serious economic problem within the dairy industry particularly in the case of producers relying on the sale of milk or cream for manufacturing purposes. I think it is a sound move on the part of the Commonwealth and State governments to bring into existence a marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme whereby dairy farmers whose farms have insufficient potential to become economic units may dispose voluntarily of their land and improvements to the State at market value. For those reasons I commend the legislation to the House. 
First, I should like to thank the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who is of course an ex-Royal Air Force pilot from the First World War, for withdrawing from this Grievance debate to give me the opportunity to take part. I think that most honourable members and a large number of visitors to Parliament House are aware of the Austin Byrne exhibition that has been on display in Kings Hall for the past 2 weeks. This exhibition has given promi nence to  Sir Charles  Kingsford-Smith and crew members who flew with him in the Southern Cross'. The exhibition is a priceless collection of records of the 'Southern Cross' and our courageous pioneers who flew in this remarkable aircraft. This aircraft was a 3-engine Fokker with 3 Wright Whirlwind engines developing approximately 220 horsepower each, lt had a wing span of approximately 23 metres and a cruising speed of about 100 miles per hour. Total fuel capacity of this aircraft was 1.080 gallons, giving it an endurance of 37 hours and a range of approximately 3,230 miles, which was remarkable for an aircraft of that time. 
The 'Southern Cross' circumnavigated the world. It was the first aircraft to do so. This is remarkable, as very few navigational aids were available in those days. I consider the flying, navigational and maintenance skill of Kingsford-Smith. Ulm, P. G. Taylor and other crew members who flew in this aircraft on their pioneering world flight with little more to assist them than instinct, sheer courage and a display of great pioneering spirit - a far greater achievement than landing the first men on the moon. This exhibition in Kings Hall would not have been possible but for Austin Byrne, who at considerable personal expense, has dedicated the last 30 years of his life to arranging this historic collection of Kingsford-Smith, Charles Ulm and Southern Cross' records. All those interested in aviation owe Austin Byrne a great deal. 
I want to give a few statistics concerning early aviation in the day of Australian pioneers. It is not generally known that when the Federal Government, through  Sir Archdale  Parkhill, the then Minister for Defence, acquired the 'Southern Cross' on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia he made a solemn promise that it would be housed in Canberra. That was on 18th July 1935 - 35 years ago. This is the most famous aircraft in aviation history. At that time it was known right throughout the world, lt was then forgotten for 22 years. Owing to the endeavours of  Mr Bruce  White, a brother of  Sir Thomas  White, and a few enthusiasts an annexe was built at Brisbane Airport and the aircraft is housed there today. We must not forget that Smithy and Ulm flew the 'Southern Cross' on their great pioneering flight of the Pacific from the United States of America to Australia and not to any particular city. For those reasons it is felt amongst the early pioneers that the 'Southern Cross' should be housed in Canberra. This also applies to the Vickers Vimy in which  Sir Ross  and Keith Smith with Shiers and Bennet, their mechanics, blazed the trail from England to Australia in 1919. Owing to the efforts of a few loyal citizens this aircraft is now housed in an annexe at Adelaide Airport. 1 would like to suggest that the Government accept the Byrne collection and the Kingsford-Smith/Charles Ulm-'Southern Cross' tribue to Australian aviation. I also suggest that an historical areonautical centre be planned to house these and other valuable aviation records. The time is now overdue to begin this project. It is 5 1 years since Ross and Keith Smith blazed the trail from England. It is now 42 years since KingsfordSmith and Charles Ulm were the first to fly the vast Pacific Ocean from the United States of America to Australia and later made the first crossing of the Tasman to New Zealand and the first east-w,:st crossing of the Atlantic. Had Harry Hawker, prior to Lindberg's flight, had a little more petrol and not gone down in the sea in sight of Ireland, Australians would have pioneered every trans-ocean flight in the world, including those across the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific. 
Any further delay in coming to a decision will rob posterity of the memories of those still living and who also retain very valuable records of the finest pioneer pilots of their time and are ready and willing to give when there is somewhere to house these aircraft and the records. These early pioneers have so much to give if a historical aeronautical centre is available. Tradition is something that we in this country sadly neglect. Young people are being deprived of the wherewithal to inspire them and stimulate their desire to play their part to further the illustrious record of those who made aviation history. We cannot afford to pass this opportunity over and go on procrastinating and forget the days of the world's greatest aviation pioneers. For those reasons I would like to see a historical aeronautical centre planned for Canberra as soon as possible. 
I ask the Treasurer: When does the Government intend to introduce legislation providing for the issue of convertible notes which arc not taxable? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Holt respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscentiy, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
I hat their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. O. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in "Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Can the Minister for External Affairs let the House know the up to date position in the Middle East and the objectives of the Australian Government? 
From what has been stated by the Opposition and from what has appeared in the Press concerning the poor deal that pensioners have received in the Budget it would not be unreasonable for many people to arrive at the conclusion that all pensioners have received a poor deal. For this reason I direct my remarks to social services. Together with the Government, we must all accept greater responsibility for pensioner! in necessitous circumstances. Of the 960,000-odd age and invalid pensioners not all by any means come within this category. I know that many pensioners, particularly those who pay high rents, are having difficulty in getting by on their pension. This group should receive greater assistance. 1 ask: From whom should this greater assistance come? Many pensioners have families. Should they not also accept some responsibility? I know that, for certain reasons, it is not possible for all families to assist, but the majority of young people could do far more for their parents man they are doing at the present time. 
Many times I have read in the Melbourne 'Herald' when it is conducting its blanket appeal the sad story of an aged person living alone. What astounds me is that so many of them have a number of married sons and daughters living close by, most of whom seem to have forgotten they have parents. Surely such people also have a responsibility along with the Government. What so many of our pensioners need today is a little love and attention from their families. I am sure this would mean far more than an extra $1 a week in the pension rate. Our first responsibility must be to our families. But surely our second responsibility should be to our parents as we can never repay them for the sacrifices they have made. If in the twilight of their lives their families cannot give them a little of their time and care, how can we expect others to show a genuine interest? I am appalled at the situation today. So many families seem to neglect their parents completely and have little respect for them in their old age. Today far greater sacrifices should be made by families to see that their parents are better provided for and have the love and attention they deserve. I am sure many of our young people are missing out on the elementary principles of why we live our lives on earth when they do not accept greater responsibility for their parents. There are always some people who will find a dozen reasons why they cannot assist. However, I am happy to say there are others who have a genuine interest and a deep respect for their parents. No matter how difficult the situation may be they will always find some way to assist them. 1 have taken out some statistics on age and invalid pensioners which may be of interest to honourable members. At 30th June 1970 there were 827,000 age pensioners and 133,766 invalid pensioners. That is a total of 960,766. Of this total 237,519 married pensioners own or are buying their homes and 27,288 invalid pensioners come into the same category - that is, own or are buying their homes. There are 231,598 single pensioners who own or are buying their homes. That is an exceptionally high figure. There are approximately 28,000 pensioners in aged persons homes, 22,289 pensioners living in low rental homes provided by the States and approximately 31,000 living in nursing homes. A further 29,000 approximately occupy public hospital beds. 1 have not been able to assess the many thousands living with their families and friends but this would be a considerable number. As honourable members will agree, a large percentage of the pensioners I have mentioned would not be in necessitous circumstances. The pensioners who are in necessitous circumstances must surely be those receiving supplementary assistance - that is, those entirely dependant on their pensions. There arc 104,720 aged pensioners and 50,931 invalid pensioners receiving supplementary assistance. Honourable members will appreciate that a large percentage of those receiving supplementary assistance are living with sons and daughters and friends and again a certain number would be living in low rental home units, nursing homes or occupying public hospital beds and so on. If I was asked to give the number of those in necessitous circumstances 1 would say there would be approximately 100,000, which is only a little more than 10 per cent of the total number of age and invalid pensioners. This is the group that could no doubt use additional assistance. 
Perhaps rising costs in recent years are the pensioners' greatest worry and industrial disturbances are one of the major reasons for rising prices. Whilst this situation continues it would greatly relieve the anxiety of pensioners if they had automatic adjustments to the pension rate. This would enable them to know where they stood and plan accordingly. However, some formula would have to be worked out other than attaching pensions to the consumer price index. If pensions were based on the consumer price index from the year 1949-50 - that is the year the Government assumed office - the present rate of pensions would be only $10.25 for a single person and $20.50 for a married couple. That is $5.25 and $7 lower respectively. 
In addition to age, invalid, widow and Service pensions there is some feeling throughout the electorate against the present voluntary system on the grounds that a superannuation pension or provision for retirement through some other form of savings can, because of the means test, result in the loss of age pensions and associated fringe benefits, which, of course, are considerable. Many people who belong to superannuation schemes feel the means test prevents them from receiving a fair return by way of pension for some of the substantial amounts of income tax paid by them over a period of perhaps 50 years. In other words, although they in effect helped to meet the cost of pensions for other persons the present scheme provides nothing for them. The only fair way to overcome this anomaly is to introduce a national superannuation scheme. This would enable all people to receive a guaranteed return from contributions made during their working lives. However, such a scheme would require considerable Government money to establish and would not help those already receiving pensions. Ft would not help those people one iota and they are the ones, as 1 mentioned, a large percentage of whom are in necessitous circumstances. At the present time there are many people on superannuation pensions who have led frugal lives to provide for their old age and with rising costs many today are far worse off than are a number of pensioners. 
Perhaps as a start to the eventual total abolition of the means test on age pensions consideration should be given to the removal of the means test for all persons over 70 years of age who are qualified for the age pension on grounds of residence. 1 feel that many persons who have retired on fixed incomes have contributed a great deal to the prosperity of this country and deserve some help from the Government in their old age. However, as 1 have already stated, the Government cannot be expected to take over all our responsibilities in old age as the young people also have a far greater responsibility than any government and I think it is about time they accepted this fact, lt is quite obvious that if people do not accept responsibility for their parents the Government has to set up some bureaucratic department to provide the services they should be providing themselves and this to me is a very negative approach to a very human problem and is not in keeping with the respect and love our elderly citizens deserve. I support the Budget and congratulate the Treasurer on bringing down his first Budget which has sought to assess fairly the needs of the nation. [Quorum formed.] 

 Mr LES JOHNSON (Hughes) 14.5] - Unlike the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  who preceded me, 1 do not .support the Budget. In fact, I would not have a bar of it at all and I think that when I say that I speak more typically for the Australian people than did the honourable member for Holt. I am mindful of the resolution of the A ils tral ian Council of Salaried and Professional . Association in respect of the Budget. These people are. of course, the white collar workers of the country and they, in a long resolution, summed the matter up in precis or synopsis form: 
Conference, conscious of public respectability is nevertheless forced to emphasise its disgust and contempt for this Budget decision and say 'it is a bloody insult'. 
It comes to something when the white collar workers of the country in a very considered and contemplative way use that kind of language, not ordinarily regarded as parliamentary, to express their very strong feelings. From my standpoint I support the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who, as the House will recall, opposed this Budget and condemned it out of hand. He condemned this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to standards of social service and war pensioners, assistance to schools, hospitals and urban authorities and restructuring of stricken primary industries, and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature. That to me seems to be a pretty effective analysis of the situation. 
We not only oppose the Budget  in  iiic forthright way I have outlined but  we  also propose to oppose as vigorously as  we  can the iniquitous receipts tax legislation which has been introduced. I do not think people want to be paying additional surcharges for the goods which they have to purchase for their day to day needs. Now, faced with this strategy and faced with our direct opposition both to the Budget and to the receipts tax legislation the Government has decided to invoke a strategy of its own. lt is a strategy of diversion which is called a campaign for law and order, lt is not a campaign designed primarily to bring criminals to heel, and it is certainly not designed to curb the ruthless exploitation that is being allowed to take place in this country. Basically it is designed to put up an Aunt Sally so the Government can knock it over itself. It is putting up a smoke screen, as my colleague the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  has said, and the Government intends, by the utilisation of this smoke screen, to oppose any challenge to the old shibboleths which are so faithfully upheld by honourable members opposite. They will be opposing all those people in the community who are concerned, for example, about Australia's illegal involvement in Vietnam. They will be talking about mob rule, when people are active in their opposition to conscription for overseas military activities and when people are conducting their meetings and circulating their petitions about the control of monopolies. 
The Government will be invoking its law and order technique against those who are active in the campaign against rising prices or the farmers who march for drought relief or, indeed, those who are concerned with the war against pollution or those who might be active in the campaign for better education opportunities. All of these are to be heaped together including the people who are now taking up the cudgels on behalf of the Gurindjis who are seeking land rights. All of these activities are to be heaped together and relegated under the heading of lawlessness in terms of the Government's new strategy. I do not think that this will be at all appealing or acceptable to the Australian community. We are living in an era which is characterised by a dramatic quest for participation on the part of the people. No longer is the community prepared to have pontifical decisions dropped from great heights by unaccountable people. Even in this Parliament the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and most other honourable members have expressed their concern about the need for genuine participation by the parliamentarians of this country. They want a diminution in Executive rule. The searchers for genuine democracy are sitting on the benches of this national Parliament and they do not stand alone. Teachers are now anxious to have their say about the manner in which education is conducted. They have attitudes in regard to the examination system and many other matters. They are calling for the establishment in various States of education commissions upon which there is teacher representation. Our young people are showing their desire to participate as citizens in this land. 
We find also that there are many people who contend, as I do, that it is not good enough to allow our human resources and our raw materials to be dominated exclusively by one type of directorship and one facet of total involvement. For example, consider the conduct of oil companies. The one factor that can be identified is the capital factor. This is an important one naturally because capital is necessary. But who decreed that it was reasonable that capital should dominate the direction of oil companies? When all is said and done there are people working in those industries and they surely are entitled to be placed on boards of directors. There are also the interests of the motorists. They ought to be represented by the National Roads and Motorists Association or some similar organisation. The service station proprietors could well be represented on oil company boards. The community generally, which is affected by the utilisation of motor cars because of air pollution and many other things, also could be represented. 
Why is it that this Government slavishly upholds that old shibboleth that only capital should be represented? We think of the enormous profits being made by companies today and we wonder to what extent Parliament is governing this country when company after company is earning an income in excess of that of some of our State governments. We wonder whether parliamentary democracy is a myth. Only yesterday Mt Isa Mines Ltd declared that its profit had doubled and was $55m. Its earning rate was 116.3 per cent. Of course, that company does not stand alone. We know that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd recently announced a profit of $59. 7m. There are many other companies in a similar position. In 1969 General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd earned $30.8m. Other examples include the Shell Oil Co. with a profit of $26.5m, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd earned $26.5m and Hamersley earned $25.3m. Since oil and the capacity of oil companies to pay wages is the topic of the day in a certain sphere I ought to add to the list that Esso's profit on a world scale was Si, 242m, Texaco earned S769m, Standard Oil of California earned $453m, Caltex Oil in Australia earned $8.1m and Mobil Oil in Australia earned $13.6m. I think I already mentioned that Shell earned $26.5m. 
The point I make is that these enormous concerns affect the people of Australia and exploit their resources. In such circumstances interests other than capital are entitled to a say in the directorship and management of great concerns. These great $300m enterprises and $500m enterprises have no trouble in overcoming some of the burdens placed on them because they simply pass the cost on to the consumers. This is the process that has been allowed to develop in Australia. With several of my colleagues a short time ago I was at the Nabalco project at Cove Peninsula. The question of Aboriginal rights came up. We realised that the company probably would not balk at restoring the sacred tree and the sacred rocks there because it would be nothing to it to pass on the costs involved - even the cost of providing a few additional bouses. It would pass the costs on to the consumer in the form of a rise in the price of a beer can or a toothpaste tube. No wonder people are not surprised that the weekly cost of living rose by $1 during one quarter of this year. No wonder pensioners are concerned about these things. All honourable members know that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is supposed to base its decisions on the capacity of industry to pay and not on its capacity to pass on costs. Yet after judgments are handed down we find that it is the order of the day to pass on costs and consumers, especially those on fixed incomes such as pensioners, are further behind than they were in the first place. 
The number of age, invalid, widow and Service pensioners in Australia exceeds 1 million and represents a very large proportion of the community. As a result of an inflationary economy, in which average earnings and prices rise by 5 per cent or 6 per cent per annum, pensioner poverty is increasing. Superannuation arrangements entered into 10, IS or 20 years ago are as good as useless today because of the combined effects of inflation and the means test. The contrivances of the thrifty and selfrespecting are of no avail. Their savings are being whittled away and there is no benefit for them in their advancing years. After 21 years of successive LiberalCountry Party Government the pension rates still are being decided in the casual ad hoc way which invariably relates more to political expediency than to the needs of pensioners. 
The incredible fact is that pensions are dropping in value. The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied official figures showing that the standard and married rates are a smaller proportion of average male earnings than they were over 20 years ago in 1949. In 1949 the standard or single rate pension was $4.23 and average male earnings were $19.40 per week, lt represented 21.9 per cent of average weekly male earnings. Last October, 20 years later, when the standard pension rate rose to $15 and average male earnings were $77.50, it represented only 19.4 per cent of average male earnings. The standard pension rate was 2.5 per cent less as a proportion of average male earnings than it was 20 years ago. The married pension rate has slipped in the same way. 
 I present the following petition. 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the residents of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species, is now so low, that they may become extinct; 
There are not sufficient wardens in any State of Australia to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws in existence; 
As a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to Australia. 
It is an indisputable fact, that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that; 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth take the necessary steps to bring all wildlife throughout Australia, under its jurisdiction. 
Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes, can save surviving kangaroos. And your petitioners, therefore as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health, ls the Minister aware that most canned pet foods are based on meat from kangaroos, working horses and cattle rejected for human consumption? Is he also aware of recent reports that such canned pet foods are being purchased for human consumption? If the report that the majority of pet foods consist of kangaroo meat which is slaughtered under most unhygienic conditions is true, will the Minister consider introducing regulations requiring that all meat used in pet foods be purchased and handled under the same conditions and standards that apply to meat used for human consumption? 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to direct my remarks on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71 to external aid. I am pleased to see that the Government will provide over $200m this financial year for overseas aid. However, the total increase in bilateral aid for the current year amounts to only $4,836,000, providing a total of $45,198,000 for the year 1970-71. This amount is not realistic in relation to the need of these countries and Australia's wealth and prosperity. Such an increase does little more than fly the flag in many countries and, when one considers the poverty and privation of our Asian neighbours, our contribution is certainly not a sacrificial one. 
Today, our greatest challenge is to close the widening gap between the rich and the poor countries of the world. To probe outer space, whilst there is so much to be done on Earth, is meaningless. It has no beginning and it has no end - and this is the way it always will be. The sooner we get our priorities more into focus, the sooner peace and understanding will be ours. In order to tackle these great human problems, we need to stimulate a far greater interest amongst the Australian people. If we are to achieve anything, we need to do more than talk about these matters. It is really a matter of selfcommitment and action at our own level that is so desperately needed. 
Voluntary agencies throughout the world are raising approximately $ 1,000m per annum in overseas aid. In the United States of America, $800m is raised and only $200m in the rest of the world. The 20 or so voluntary agencies in Australia are raising approximately $Sm in overseas aid. The reason we do not do more is that we lack the right leadership. Today, more than at any other time, we need pioneers in the field of overseas aid. The average Australian is fairminded and generous and is prepared to assist those in need providing the right motive can be given. It is here where we need leaders who can work as pioneers in the field of overseas aid. I say pioneers' because the surface has hardly been scratched at the present time. 
Because of the complex problems confronting most of the Asian countries, a British presence in Asia until the turn of the century is of major importance. After almost 200 years of rule in the Pacific area, Britain has taken the easy way out by saying: 'I am going home after 1971'. I am pleased - and I know many countries must be - that there has been a change of government in Britain and that this policy has been reversed. Britain still has big responsibilities in these areas and should not be running away from them. Many of her former colonies and dominions have strongly supported Britain over the years. I refer particularly to Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Malaya, Nepal and many others. All these countries have strongly urged Britain to remain in the area and her withdrawal, if there is to be one, should be of a minor nature only, and certainly not before these countries are able to handle their own affairs more effectively. Britain's timing to withdraw east of Suez could never have been chosen at a worse time with the problems of hunger, over-population and illiteracy with which many of her former colonies are confronted. I fully endorse the remarks of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when he stated in a speech in the autumn session of this Parliament that it would be a major misfortune for the region if British influence was withdrawn. Never before in times of peace has there been such need for a strong British presence in Asia, as Britain's tact and diplomacy in handling the troubled situation which occurs from time to time is urgently needed today. Most of the trouble spots we have in the world today - the Middle East, Africa and Asia - have only risen because British tact and diplomacy is no longer there.  Her  influence is missing now from many Asian countries with the result that no major power has been able to fill the vacuum so created by her withdrawal. 
On humanitarian grounds alone, Australia must do far more to assist our Asian neighbours. I am of the opinion that economic aid, effectively used on developmental programmes, is the best way to win friends and influence people. In these countries, a great show of force can never permanently ensure lasting peace. It can only be a short term measure. I often wonder what we fought for in the last war. The millions of lives lost and the countless billions spent on defence have left the world, some 25 years later, more divided and out of balance than at any time this century. Over the years, too great an emphasis has been placed on defence - and it just has not worked out. Our problems today are much the same as they always have been. They are human problems and countless billions spent on defence have not provided any lasting solution, and they never will. This brings me to the point that, if the same effort that has been channelled into defence over the past 50 years had been channelled into economic assistance, many of the great human tragedies that confront us today would not exist. For these reasons, I am anxious to see far greater government assistance in the field of economic aid, yes, even if it has to come from the defence allocation. However, it is necessary if the Government is to play a more effective role in this regard, that the people also must play their part and make great sacrifices, as no Government can be expected to go it alone. 
On humanitarian and moral grounds all of the affluent countries have accepted that we have an obligation to assist the less developed countries and that our responsibility does not end at national frontiers. However, whilst the affluent countries have accepted the fact that we have obligations to assist the less developed countries, the assistance being given today is only a trickle of our actual wealth. It is out of all proportion to what we have. To illustrate what I mean, last year we channelled less than $1.0m in economic aid to India. This $1Om appears to be a reasonable sum of money - and so it is - but to bring it into its right perspective we have to divide $10rr into more than 500 million people, and it works out to about 20c per head of population. I ask: What could a person buy with that? It would buy approximately 2 pints of milk per head of population each year. If we divided our total aid programme into the population of Asia, the receipient countries would be receiving far less per capita. That is what I mean when I say our aid, both Government and private, is out of all proportion to what we have. 
There is very little sacrificial giving in this country both in the private sector and at the Government level. With so much poverty to the north of us, any Australian policy on international affairs, if it is to be effective, must provide additional funds for economic assistance and a percentage of this should be channelled through voluntary agencies. No one organisation or government can hope to meet more than a small percentage of the many requests for help. It is therefore important that the funds that we have at our disposal, be they Govern ment or private, be effectively used. The need is so urgent in these countries that it calls for an immediate close liaison between the Government and private sectors to see that our aid is directed where the need is greatest. 
There seems to be some reluctance on the part of the Department of External 
Affairs to work through voluntary agencies, yet foreign governments and other states of the Commonwealth are only too happy to do so. The only reason I have been able to obtain for this reluctance is that if the Government assisted voluntary agencies it would lose money to spend on Government projects. The other reason is that the Government funds are fully committed. This is really admitting that the Government is not doing enough. As far as I am aware the Department of External Affairs is about the only Government department that does not encourage a close working liaison with the private sector. It should be realised that voluntary agencies were doing effective work in the Asian countries long before we had an external aid department. I personally do not consider that the Department of External Affairs is the only expert in this field. 
Whilst Australia's contribution to these countries is so small it is a matter of spending what funds we have available as effectively as possible, and for this reason I feel that 10 per cent of any increase in Colombo Plan funds should be channelled through voluntary agencies to commence with. My first reason for saying this is that voluntary agencies consist of people who are generally interested in assisting those in need, and any assistance given is usually without fee or reward. In further support, there is nothing to replace a voluntary effort if given in the right spirit, as it can achieve almost anything. Again, voluntary agencies are able to make contact with the private sector where the need is greatest. I think it would be in the interest of any Government department to encourage a voluntary effort. The thousands of people who work through such agencies are able to provide that warm, human, personal touch that can be lacking at the government to government level. Again, voluntary agencies have been working amongst the under privileged countries for many years and understand their problems. Also, aid given through such agencies is generally better utilised. 1 could give many more reasons. However, to make my point once again, I would like to say that Australia has a very big role to play in these countries and it is therefore important that there be much closer liaison between the Government and voluntary agencies if we are to play an effective part in assisting these countries to grapple with their many problems. For this reason I feel that the Government should do everything possible to stimulate interest amongst voluntary agencies who have been doing effective work in these countries for a very long period. Australia's main role in Asian countries is as a donor nation, and it is important that our major contribution be along those lines. 
1 ask the Prime Minister a question. In view of the extensive public interest and concern about the possibility of the Reverend Ian Paisley visiting Australia at the same time as the Pope, will he state whether the Government intends to prevent such a visit? 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Honourable, the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament, assembled. The humble petition of residents of Cranbourne and surrounding district, respectfully sheweth: 
Our national symbol, the Red Kangaroo, is through shooting for commerce, being reduced to a numerical level where, if the shooting is not stopped, the animal will become extinct. 
Reports from scientists, conservationists, tourists, graziers and shooters, confirm that State Governments are unable to effectively enforce legislation to control shooting and that kangaroos are already extinct in many areas where they once were prolific. 
Science has established that kangaroos seldom come into direct competition for forage with sheep, there is. therefore, no reason why this unwarranted killing, which is branding us internationally as barbarians, should be allowed (o continue. 
We, the residents of this nation, want the kangaroo, which can be found nowhere else in the world, to be part of the Australian landscape. We believe that tourists, who will play an increasing part in the national balance of payments, want this too. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Quickly pass the legislation necessary to make the kangaroo a protected animal throughout Australia - the culling of herds for the protection of the few property owners genuinely threatened by excessive numbers, or for the welfare of kangaroos themselves, to bc carried out by or under direct supervision of Government officers. 
And you petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The matter of pre-embarkation instruction in English for migrants was raised in this debate last night and I would like to state just what the Government is doing in this regard. In Europe the Inter-governmental Committee for European Migration arranges classes and correspondence instruction in countries where ICEM operates from funds allocated by the Australian Government. In 2 countries, Belgium and the Netherlands, the immigration authorities conduct a limited programme with technical assistance from ICEM. In countries where ICEM is not operating the Department of Immigration is responsible for preembarkation language instruction. This is provided in the following countries: Turkey, Greece, Italy, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Finland and Yugoslavia. Consideration is also being given to the appointment of departmental language training supervisors to Paris with responsibility for Spain and, in due course, Portugal, and to Stockholm with responsibility for Norway, Finland and Iceland. Of course, instruction is given on ships and intensive instruction courses are provided once the migrant arrives in this country. 
I want to mention something closer to my electorate. For many years many teachers at Government and Catholic schools have had a problem teaching English to non-English speaking migrant children. In the main this has been usually at primary level and to a lesser degree in secondary schools in areas where there are large migrant populations. I have a number of these in the Holt electorate. It is not uncommon for 60 or more non-English speaking migrant children to commence a school year at primary school with little knowledge of the English language. Naturally this presents many problems for the teaching staff and this matter was raised with me as a former member of State Parliament on a number of occasions. What the schools wanted mainly were trained teachers for teaching English. It is only in the last year or so that State Government authorities have accepted, in principle anyway, that there has been a problem in some schools. However, State authorities with their limited finances have not been able to come to grips with this problem. It is for this reason that the migrant education programme is welcomed as it will enable schools with large migrant intakes better to provide intensive instruction in English by teachers with special skills. 
The special provisions in this Bill - I again emphasise the payment of salaries of these special teachers in addition to teaching aids and so on, is a very progressive step forward by the Department of Immigration and will be a big factor in enabling migrant children to settle more quickly into their new environment. 1 carried out a survey of a number of government and independent schools in my electorate and all welcomed these new proposals in the Immigration (Education) Bill 1970. From my survey I was able to obtain some interesting statistics from a number of schools which have large migrant intakes. 
Speaking generally, approximately onethird of the children attending schools within, the electorate of Holt are children of migrant parents, and approximately one-half of these are from the United Kingdom. I want to refer to a few of the statistics which I received from the schools. The first one is the Dandenong technical school. In many cases children attending this school come from homes in which English is not the commonly used language. In some cases the children's own mastery of English is so weak that the teachers feel that this handicaps them in their subjects, and I do not think there is any doubt about that. It is noteworthy that these are all in the lower forms either because they have mastered English by the time they reach the higher forms or because they give up the struggle, leave school early and enter unskilled occupations because of lack of qualifications. lt is worth noting that the percentage of migrant children is higher in the upper forms. This may be because the migrant who is dissatisfied with life in his own country and has the initiative to travel halfway round the world to a new country has the drive and intelligence to appreciate the need for higher education. The figures at this school to which I am referring now are based on a total enrolment of 630 students. Out of a total enrolment of 630 children there are 246 children of migrant parents, which represents over 40 per cent of the total enrolment. Children of migrant parents whose native language was not English represent approximately 24 per cent of the total enrolment; children from homes where English is not the commonly used language represent approximately 20 per cent; children whose parents could not speak English fluently or write it represented 9 per cent; and children whose lack of English posed a handicap to their learn ing represented 3 per cent, which is a quite high figure. 
One of the biggest difficulties which teachers at the Dandenong technical school experienced was communicating with the parents of these migrant children, both from the simplest level of understanding why a child was absent from school to the matter of giving educational or vocational advice or counselling. The teachers suggested that one way the Government could assist was to provide trained teachers, and again I want to emphasise this point. I want to refer to another secondary school - the Springvale high school. Of a total enrolment of 835 students. 230 are children of migrant parents, and of those 230 students. 55 are having difficulty with English at their particular form level. Twenty-four of these students are in constant need of assistance, and some recent arrivals have no knowledge of English at all. The remaining 31 students are also in need of instruction. Speaking generally, the teachers at this school said that children of migrant parents measure up quite well academically with the Australian born child, but that many find their task made much harder by their struggle with English, particularly in some cases because of the habit, or insistence, of parents in speaking their native tongue in the home. This imposes quite a handicap on these children as they have to cope with 2 languages - English at school and their native tongue at home. Again, what the Springvale high school urgently needs is a trained teacher in. English. i could go on and refer quickly to other schools. At the Noble Park high school there are 300 migrant children out of a total enrolment of 1,000. Mainly they are the southern European children who are having the most difficulty with English at this school. I want to refer to St John's Regional College in Dandenong, which is an independent school. Of a total enrolment of 450, approximately 130 are children of migrant parents. The migrant children at this school do not encounter difficulties with English to any marked degree, although naturally there are exceptions. Those of Italian extraction" generally seem to have more difficulty than the other migrant children.I have referred to secondary schools. 1 want to refer quickly to a few statistics regarding primary schools because these schools, in the main, encounter greater difficulties with migrant children speaking the English language than do the secondary schools. 
At the Dandenong South school there are 280 migrant children out of a total enrolment of 506, and of these 280, 105 are White Russian children. The principal of this school said: 
New arrivals at this school have to be given an intensive course in English language skills until they can understand what the grade teacher is talking about. Obviously, these children cannot progress very far until a knowledge of basic English is gained. 
He went on to say: 
Generally, no English is spoken at home. 
Again this presents a great problem for these children because, as I have mentioned, they have to cope with 2 languages. I also refer to the Noble Park primary school. Out. of a total enrolment of 650, 200 are children of migrant parents. The principal of this school, in a letter, stated: 
Once the English language is mastered migrant children can manage at an average level. This period varies with the age - the younger children assimilate fairly readily - the older children find the language barrier the cause of loneliness. 
She also stated: 
It is difficult to help slow learners within the migrant group - I have taken Italian children who have been with us for 3 years who still have difficulty in coping at grade level. 
The last school that I want to mention is the Dandenong West Primary School. Approximately 150 children from migrant parents are attending this school which has an enrolment of 600. At present 20 of these children have little or no English. Migrant children participate very eagerly in all sporting activities. They measure up well academically once the language difficulties are overcome. This seems to be the main problem. They cannot cope very well until they master the English language. 
I want quickly to summarise my remarks. In practically all of the schools that I have mentioned one of the most pressing problems with non-English speaking migrant children is that there is a complete lack of contact with their parents. Children returning home from school have to communicate in their native tongue and this imposes great stress on a young child who has to cope with 2 languages. Statistics obtained from the Dandenong Technical School show that only 30 per cent of parents from non-English speaking countries can speak English. Other schools show similar results. Many of the non-English speaking migrant children are at a distinct disadvantage with their parents conversing only in their native tongues. I am sure that one of the reasons for this is that they have never had an opportunity of readily mastering English. This is particularly so with women who do not have the same opportunities as men. 1 know that crash courses in English operate in most of the States. I have attended such a course in Canberra. Another is conducted at Enterprise, the migrant hostel in my electorate, butI am thinking mainly of the non-English speaking migrant women. 
To me there appears to be no reason why small classes could not be conducted in the home, local church hall or even infant welfare centre. If we want happy contented migrants it is essential that they have a good command of English. I should like the Minister to give further consideration to the provision of English lessons for migrants in such places as homes and church halls, I will explain quickly what I mean. Migrant women who are having difficulty with English are not anxious to attend large classes in public for various reasons, including embarrassment. They realise that they would have difficulty in coping in a large class and they have home commitments. Such women, however, are more inclined to attend a small private class for numbers between 5 and 10. Such a class was established last year in Doveton in my electorate at the local infant welfare centre where women could attend and leave their babies under the care of the infant welfare teacher. If we could foster more of these small classes this would be a good way of enabling the housebound wife to obtain a better understanding of the English language. This proposal, of course, could be implemented to some extent under the grant in aid scheme which is operating in some centres. 
Finally I want to list the main points which I trust will receive consideration. From my observations many Greeks, Italians, Yugoslavs and Turks are in need of intensive courses in English because, in the main, their children have to cope with 2 languages as little English is spoken in the home. Many of these migrants have no desire to learn English and they forbid the use of it in the home. One of the greatest difficulties is to communicate with the parents from the simple level of understanding why the child was absent from school to the matter of giving educational and vocational advice or counselling. 
Children who have migrated at secondary level sometimes have acute difficulties, particularly where parents do not speak English at home. These parents should be contacted by interpreters and given intensive training in the English language. This would ease considerably the burden on the children. It was interesting to note from the survey carried out among children in the Holt electorate that few retained their cultural talents. Perhaps greater opportunity should be given to schools to encourage children to retain their native culture. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable, the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
The Red Kangaroo, largest marsupial in the world, has through shooting for commerce become extinct or rare in many areas of Australia whereit was once prolific. 
All scientific evidence points to this decimation of numbers, which is clear evidence that State Governments are unableto control commercial shooting withintheir boundaries. 
We, the people of Australia, feel strong repugnance to the fact that industries should be allowed to operate, which in the past have decimated the koala to extinction over vast areas of this land, and which have now similarly exploited the kangaroo. We feel that the taxpayer should not have the heavy burden of having to pay for the control of an industry which benefits but a few people in this country, and that live kangaroos through their value as tourist attractions are economically far more profitable to our economy and to us aesthetically. 
We your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly insist that Slate Governments prohibit the commercial shooting of kangaroos. 
Enact legislation to give the Commonwealth Government control of all native wildlife throughout Australia. and your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Last Tuesday the Prime Minister announced a reduction of $7Sm in Commonwealth expenditure to combat inflation. It was also stated that foreign aid would be reduced by $3. 8m. Will the Minister inform the House which countries will be affected and what amounts are involved? 
The urgency discussion initiated by the Opposition is a purely materialistic one because an additional SI or so is not the greatest need of our elderly citizen. Pensioners do not live by bread alone. They are human, and they need love and affection. I am sure that a visit from a relative, or better still from their own children, would mean far more to our elderly citizens than would an increase of $1 a week in their pension rates. I am sorry to say that I feel that our priorities are hopelessly out of focus today whilst our young people do not accept greater responsibility for their parents. Should they not also accept some of this increased burden? I quite agree that the lone pensioner paying rent is in need of additional assistance, but should not his or her children, relatives and friends also accept greater responsibility? 
This reminds me of a story I must tell the House. A distinguished social worker from an Asian country visited this country last year. She was taken around to see all the wonderful sights of Melbourne and Sydney and she said: 'My word, you have a great country here. You seem to have everything you need.' But she ended up by saying: 'I would not like to grow old here', meaning that she would be put away in an old persons' home or she would be left to her own resources. Of course, in the Asian countries the children accept responsibility for their parents. This, of course, is one of life's lessons. We must accept a greater responsibility for our parents. For this reason, I do not like to see any government take over these responsibilities today from a lot of our young people. I feel that this is their responsibility. Their parents need their love and affection and they should be doing far more to help them. So the blame for this does not rest entirely with this Government or any other government. Although we use this general term pensioners' I do not think all of them are in need of an increase in pension. The ones who are, as I mentioned, are the single persons living alone. They are the ones in need of greatest assistance. 
I want to quote some figures 1 first quoted in a speech I made last year on people in need of assistance. When I took out the statistics on 30th June 1970 there were 237,519 married pensioners who owned or were buying their own homes. There were also 231,598 single pensioners who were buying their own homes. These are exceptionally high figures. Surely all these people were not in need of a pension. As I say, we use this generalisation of an increase in pensions but this increase should not include all those people. It should only, as far as I am concerned, take care of the single pensioner, the person who is paying high rents and other people who are invalids and are in need of assistance in other directions. I do not think the importance of fringe benefits is realised. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  touched on this subject a little while ago. These fringe benefits are of great importance to the pensioner, particularly health benefits. The elderly citizen has reached that stage in life where he perhaps puts health before anything else and it means a great deal to him, particularly if he is in need, to be able to go along to the chemist's shop and be provided with free pharmaceutical benefits. I feel that these fringe benefits provide for the pensioner who is in need and I do not think one can put a price on this for the pensioner who is desperately in need of this type of assistance. 
I cannot understand the attitude of our young people - I must come back to this statement - who want to hand all these responsibilities over to the government. I do not know just why they do not want to accept greater responsibility themselves, but it is certainly one of life's lessons. One of the reasons we live our lives on earth is to look after our parents and I feel that those people who have not had that experience are missing something very important in life. Pensioners who pay high rents are certainly, I feel, the ones who are in need of greater assistance and perhaps if the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders had been moved along those lines the Opposition may have received greater support from members on this side of the House. I just want to conclude by saying that the case put forward by the Opposition had rested far too much on the increased dollar. I am sure that our senior citizens are in need of a little more of something that no government can provide. They need love and affection and this can best be provided by their families and friends. For those reasons I most strongly oppose the materialistic approach on pensions taken by the Opposition. 
The purpose of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure in the current financial year of $120,968,000 on a wide number of items, including foreign aid. The Bill provides me with the opportunity of mentioning something of the tragic cyclone which ravaged the coastal regions and off-shore island of East Pakistan last November. Also I want to speak of events leading up to the tragic situation where fighting is at present taking place between Government forces and the Awami League led by Sheikh Mujibur Rehman. This unfortunate event has occurred at a time when East Pakistan is endeavouring to recover from the aftermath of the tragic cyclone of 12th and 13th November 1970, and it will take some 2 or 3 years before the survivors from the coastal regions and off-shore islands have been fully rehabilitated. It is indeed sad that the people of East Pakistan are again experiencing death an destruction, not as an act of God but this time man made. I am not making excuses for the. people of East Pakistan nor, for thai, matter, any country which has obtained independence during the postwar period, but I do think that the people in Australia and western countries should not judge what is happening in these newly independent countries by their own standards, as we are far removed from what is actually happening. 
I believe that we expect far too much from these people. It is only natural that many of these countries are having growing pains in their early years of self-government. After all, most western countries have an early history of civil wars, slaves and violence prior to stable government. Much of the trouble in East Pakistan today could have been avoided had the people received more sacrificial help with their domestic problems. I feel that the western countries must accept greater responsibility for what is happening there today. It is a difficult job running any country and East Pakistan and many other countries that have obtained their independence really have done a remarkably good job in tackling the many difficulties associated with self-government. Their main problems are human and economic problems and they will need tremendous assistance for years to come. 
We must realise that we live our lives on earth for a very simple reason, and that is to help each other. I am sorry to say that Pakistani India and many other countries are just not getting the support they need from the more prosperous and wealthy countries. Many of these countries face tremendous problems - problems of hunger, illiteracy, over-population and active Communist parties, not to mention health, housing, education, transport and many other domestic problems. Few. western countries could overcome these difficulties, and what these countries, need is far greater help and less criticism if they are to make a success of self government. 
I should like to go on record as saying that we are all guilty whilst we know that 10,000 children will die today of starvation and neglect in Pakistan and India alone, and another 10,000 will die tomorrow and so on, but do practically nothing to help them. Knowing these facts, we are just as guilty as the war criminals who were tried at the Nuremburg and Tokyo war trials if we stand by and do nothing about these great human tragedies. Whilst sp little is being done to assist East Pakistan and India with their great human problems of privation and neglect, the situation in many such countries will continue to deteriorate. What is needed today is a change of attitude towards these people, and the sooner we return to the fundamental principles of why we live our lives on earth the happier and more contented we will be. If a prosperous country like Australia cannot provide greater assistance, we are out of touch with reality. These days people are protesting and demonstrating against what they claim are. unjust laws that appear on the statute books. However, when we get down to the real essence of why we live our lives on earth, we realise that we do not have to be guided too much by legislation. The real laws are the unwritten laws and if more people were motivated by their conscience we might be able to come to grips with the real issues confronting the people in these countries today. One's real possessions are spiritual - part of the world of mind, not matter. One's love, courage, faith in God, acceptance of responsibility, sense of art and beauty, pleasures of the past, hopes for the future and the sacrificial gifts one makes are the real things . of life. They belong to each and every one of us. It is just a matter of knowing where to find them, and it is upon this foundation that goodwill lies and Australia must stand. All these qualities are far outside the law of any land. A person's individuality, a person's intuition, can never be controlled by legislation and it is important that we recognise this and do not deny this right unto others.. 
If more people were motivated by thenconscience, many of the great human problems that confront us would not exist. Let me illustrate what I. mean. Few people in Australia responded to the call for assistance to. help the survivors of the East Pakistan cyclone last November. This catastrophe was claimed to be the greatest this century, but there was little response at the Government or individual level. Similarly, the contributions from a wealthy and prosperous country like Australia in assisting developmental projects in these countries is out of all proportion to what we really have, so I am not at all surprised at the amount of aid given to Pakistan in connection with the cyclone disaster. This being so, it is about time we raised our sights much higher. A more humanitarian approach is needed if we are to come to grips with the problems in these countries. 
Early last December I visited some of the worst affected areas, shortly after the cyclone, and I am sure that neither the Government nor the people of Australia realised the size of this catastrophe, for the very simply reason that they were far removed from it. Without a doubt it was the greatest catastrophe of this century. I saw plenty of evidence of death and destruction when I visited those areas some 3 weeks after the disaster. I spoke to a number of the survivors - responsible people who included district commissioners, police officers and school teachers - in some of the worst affected areas and they gave me a graphic account of what actually happened. On one part of 
Bhola Island I visited 123,000 people were drowned. On a part of Hatiya Island 46,000 people were drowned. Out of a total of 77,000 inland fishermen 52,000 were drowned. On many smaller islands that supported human life, vegetation and livestock everything has disappeared. All the people, animals, vegetation, etc., were sucked out into the Bay of Bengal. No-one will ever know the total mortality but it must approximate 2 million people. These are the figures of the East Pakistan government. 
There are many stories of heroism and good fortune. Many parents frantically made small rafts on which their children floated to safety. Other people clung to trees or rode buffaloes to survive. Some escaped by climbing trees. Unfortunately the tidal wave came during the hours of darkness and this greatly hampered rescue operations. At that time of the year the majority of the farmers were harvesting their paddy crops. This is an occasion when all relatives rally to help bring in the harvest, and it meant that in many instances there were few survivors amongst very large families. Many of the dead were washed up on nearby islands, and this made identification impossible. Tens of thousands of people and complete villages have disappeared without any trace. The full extent of this tragedy will never be known. It is known, however, that hundreds of thousands were sucked out into the Bay of Bengal. Just how many noone will ever know, but without a doubt this is how the majority of the deaths occurred. I might mention that this great human tragedy has left the survivors stunned and bewildered as many have lost their entire families and possessions. Under such conditions one needs not only great courage to attempt a new start in life but also great faith and a strong desire to go on living. There are many, of course who will not take up the challenge. However, the majority have and help on a large scale will be needed for the next 2 years to assist with their rehabilitation. 
I believe these great tragedies happen for certain reasons, and one of these must surely be to test our sincerity and genuineness in coming to the assistance of people in need. I am sorry to say that in the case of East Pakistan we have not done so. To try to bring this tragedy into its right perspective, I want to say that the mortality in East Pakistan was 3 times greater than the total United Kingdom and American dead in the Second World War. It was 28 times greater than the total of fatalities among members of the British and Commonwealth Air Forces in the Second World War. We go to the assistance of peaceful countries in times of war to the extent of sacrificing thousands of lives and the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars, yet in times of peace when a friendly country has been ravaged by the greatest catastrophe ever known we provide less than $500,000 in assistance, and this under pressure. Surely at a time of the greatest natural disaster this century the contributions from a rich and prosperous country should not be just a mere token which does little more than indicate a casual interest by the Government and the people of Australia. 
As  president  of the voluntary agency For Those Who Have Less that has been working in these countries for some years, I can assure this House and the Government that voluntary agencies expect much more from the Government. If the Department of Foreign Affairs was not aware of the extent of this tragedy, I was, and I was prompted to forward a telegram to the former Prime Minister and the. former Minister for Foreign Affairs the first thing on the Monday morning after the tragedy was announced, urging aid to the extent of $lm. Subsequent events have now proved this catastrophe to be the worst ever recorded, and having witnessed the aftermath of it all I am greatly concerned that so little has been done to help these unfortunate people. What more can I do than to reiterate the following facts: Approximately 2 million people lost their lives. The American Ambassador to East Pakistan estimates the total at between 3 million and 4 million people. Some 3 million survivors have been left stunned and bewildered. They are in urgent need of rehabilitation and many have lost their desire to go on living. It is the greatest catastrophe this century and it has happened in peace time, not in time of war. The cyclone had an explosive force of 100 hydrogen bombs and all this happened in one night and was not spread over 5 years as was the situation with casualties in the Second World War. Again I want to stress that the mortality was 3 times greater than the combined British and American dead in the Second World War or 28 times greater than those killed in the British and Commonwealth Air Forces. However, perhaps of even greater importance is the fact that we are expected on humanitarian grounds to go to the assistance of another Commonwealth country in its time of great need and I am sure the Australian people expect the Government to make a more sacrificial contribution, which it has not done up to the present time. 
This is what I mean when 1 say that there has been little sacrificial assistance from the people of Australia to help the survivors of the cyclone in East Pakistan. Never before has there been such a catastrophe. Never before have the issues been so great and it seems to me to be a great pity that we have not faced up to our moral responsibility in this regard. Today Australia needs strong . moral leadership, and if we had sufficient leaders I am sure many more would follow, because in the past Australians have always been known as generous and fair minded people. However, if the members of the" present generation are not prepared to do more at their own particular level I would support and encourage a crusade if this is the only way to get the people to accept greater responsibility for those who have less. This great human tragedy must be faced up to in our time, and the time to act is now. Never before have so many people in the world needed succour. Every day the story of their plight is being told, from the aged and needy in our great cities to the hungry people of India, from the orphans in East Pakistan - and there are some 27,000 known orphans from the cyclone- to the victims of racial discrimination. 
I feel that the great danger of all this lies in the fact that it no longer shocks us to know that these great tragedies occur every day. We are no longer shocked to know that today 10,000 children in India and Pakistan will die of starvation and neglect and another 10,000 tomorrow and so on. Out of every 20 children born in these countries 10 will die in infancy and 7 out of the remaining 10 will be stunted for life both mentally and physically because of malnutrition in childhood. Only 3 out of 20 will escape the ravages of hunger. When we take time off to think of this sit uation we tend to shrug off any thought of personal commitment at our own level. We are all inclined to sit back and wait for someone else to act or wait to see what the Government or governments intend to do about it, and that is exactly why so little is being done. I have not heard of anyone wanting to protest about these 10,000 children who are going to die today in India and Pakistan. If anyone ever wanted a good reason for wanting to protest and demonstrate this great human tragedy must surely provide one. I venture to say that such inhumanity towards those people warrants a march-past in every capital city each week until these great human problems are tackled. I wonder how many people would be prepared to march on such issues. Surely on such issues as these we should forget party politics, come together as a national Parliament and make a positive approach towards relieving hunger and privation in these countries. If all parties pulled together we could achieve so much. I urge a positive approach along the lines I have suggested, as these great human problems must be faced up to in our time. 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina) ' (5.26)- In the first instance I would like to commend the remarks of the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid).  Only on rare occasions does he speak in this House but when he does he makes a contribution straight from the conscience. I think we all were privileged to listen to him this afternoon. I commend him for his thoughts and his genuine cry of conscience today. Consideration of items of expenditure under the Appropriation Bill conies before this Parliament at a time when the Government is suggesting that austerity should reign in relation to its expenditure and in relation to the expenditure of various segments of the community. The interesting thing is that when we talk about Government austerity we must ask ourselves where the axe is to fall. 
At the present time in New South Wales children are being sent home for a period every week because of the inadequate number of teachers available and inadequate accommodation. In NSW there have been warnings by the State Government that economies must be exercised in our public hospitals system. I am not sure whether it is suggested that they should close up for a day in each week. This is the situation of public services at the present time. School children are being sent home because of inadequacies and there are stringencies in our hospitals which should not be there. 
I want to draw attention particularly to the Prime Minister's Department. Additional expenditure of $491,800 is sought for that magnificant imperial hangover known as Australia House in London. As honourable members can probably gather from an examination of the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) this house of representation is under the control of the Prime Minister's Department and Cabinet. It has been thus since the beginning because it was normal in imperial times. We did not have a Department of Foreign Affairs or even a Department of External Affairs. The Constitution did not envisage that we would ever be independent or that we would ever need ambassadors or representatives in an independent way. It was assumed that all matters would be handled through the authorities in London. We have grown up and grown out of that stage except for this great monument to the past which in a full year will cost Australia about $5. 3m. I think that for this year the expenditure comes down by a modest $250,000. 
I wanted to direct attention to this because obviously it has failed to do the job that needs to be done. If any evidence is needed of this failure we have the decision of the New South Wales Government, at a time when schools are inadequate and hospitals are under stringencies, to spend another $2m on its new Agents-General's office in London. In fact NSW undertakes the major expenditure in London apart from that of the Commonwealth. That State spends $800,000 to do the job that it feels needs to be done in trade and commerce and representation. South Australia has the biggest London bill after New South Wales. South Australia spends $320,000 for its London staff. Western Australia spends about $250,000, Victoria about $141,000, Queensland about $250,000 and Tasmania about $132,000. All these States together are annually spending a tremendous sum of money to ensure their proper representation in migration, trade, commerce and industry, and they are expanding. This is a contradiction. If we have an overseas mission that is costing us more than $5m a year and it is doing its job this expenditure is obviously not necessary. However, there has been great dissatisfaction in the States. 
I can remember when I was a member of the New South Wales Parliament the concern expressed about the lack of drive by Commonwealth agencies, particularly in London. This is why the present New South Wales Government and its predecessor decided that they would expand their representation. We cannot have it both. ways. If it is correct to say that the overseas mission that we have is adequate then other expenditure is not necessary. But we do not need to have 1,300 representatives of Australia in London at this time. About 200 of them are employed by State Agents-General and 1,100 are in Australia House. That number is double the size of our staff in Washington. Our expenditure in London is equivalent to our expenditure in every mission of ours in neighbouring countries. This may have been the right thing in 1901 but times have changed and here we are 70 years later making the same obeisances. I suggest that there is room for a complete reorganisation. The first step is to' place this matter under the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs and then to reschedule the whole of its activities, if necessary in close consultation with the States. If we are to have austerity and improvements in public services this is one place we could start with. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Is he aware that  President  Nixon recently announced a new $4,000m foreign aid programme? The  President  went on to say that America could no longer ignore poverty, hunger and disease in the world any more than a person could ignore the sufferings of his neighbours. Can the Treasurer inform the House whether this Government shares  President  Nixon's concern? If so, can he indicate the total aid flow from Australia to developing countries in 1970 and its relation to gross national product? 
 This debate on foreign affairs is mainly centred on China. However, I wish to introduce a matter which is far removed from this subject but nevertheless it is a vitally important subject in any foreign affairs debate. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. 
Bowen) in his statement to the House mentioned something of the refugee problem in India and genocide in East Pakistan. It is my intention to direct my remarks to this great catastrophe. I am not surprised that this subject was raised as  a  matter of public importance by the Opposition last week. I was recently in India with the honourable members for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and I know, they were deeply concerned with the refugee problem there. The honourable member for Kingston worked as a doctor in a refugee camp in North Bengal for  9  or 10 days, so he can speak from first hand experience. 1 feel that this great catastrophe should have been raised as a matter of public importance as I believe it is a far more urgent subject than a dialogue with China. However listening to this debate, one would not think so. 
I believe that the refugee problem in India and the plight of the displaced persons in East Pakistan to be the greatest human tragedy post-war, and Australia must accept a far greater responsibility. I might mention that this Government is not accepting a greater responsibility if all we can say is that we are providing 1 per cent of our gross national product, which of course includes private investment, and that therefore we are doing our share. We cannot possibly measure human tragedy that way, as it provides little comfort for the millions of refugees who have nothing - absolutely nothing - and with little hope for the future. Any aid which we provide to these countries must be guided more on need and on humanitarian grounds. Also our aid must be commensurate with the size of the catastrophe. This being so, 1 am afraid that the Government must raise its sights much higher, as the $14 m provided to date, which includes the additional $500,000 announced by the Minister, would not feed the refugees for one day. 
Visiting the Asian countries as frequently as I do, I feel that the Government should show a far greater initiative in the field of foreign aid. At the present time it is inclined to shelter behind the Colombo Plan and other multi-bilateral agreements as though this is the beginning and end of aid so far as it is concerned. To indicate what I mean, the Government showed little initiative in coming to the assistance of the survivors of the tragic cyclone that ravaged the coastal regions and off-shore islands of East Pakistan on the night of 12th-13th November 1970. This was the greatest natural catastrophe this century, and I saw plenty of evidence of this when I was there shortly afterwards. All we provided for the survivors was $425,000. 
I have just returned from a further visit to these areas, and the situation is far worse than at first envisaged. Ninety per cent of these people are still completely dependent on relief supplies, as saline deposits have prevented them from growing their crops. This situation will continue until well into next year. Unfortunately for the people of East Pakistan they are confronted with a far greater catastrophe, this time man-made, as civil war has been raging in the country for the past 4 months and hundreds of thousands have already lost their lives. Many stories have been written of genocide in east Pakistan as complete villages and towns have been wiped out, with only a few survivors left to tell the tale of the terrible atrocities that have been committed. All this, of course, has resulted in more than 7 million refugees crossing the border into West Bengal and Assam. 
At this stage I wish to say a little about events leading up to the refugee problem. It all goes back to the cyclone that I have mentioned. It was the lack of support from foreign governments and, of course, the Government of West Pakistan, in coming to the assistance of the survivors which led to independence first becoming a real issue in East Pakistan. I know because I was there during the elections, and it was at this stage that Sheik Mujibur Rahman pressed for independence, and the movement soon won popular support amongst the masses. The point I make here is that the lack of support forthcoming from foreign governments, including Australia, was a major factor in leading to the unrest and civil war in East Pakistan today, which has caused millions of refugees to flee into the Indian States. 
I have visited a number of refugee camps and the position in most of them is indescribable. The people are living under conditions far worse than those depicted in any picture or story one has seen or read. 
Without a doubt mortality on an unprecedented scale must inevitably result unless the refugees are quickly dispersed, preferably back to East Pakistan. I discussed this matter with  Mrs Gandhi,  and she is adamant that the refugees must return to East Pakistan. However, she has laid down 3 conditions: Firstly, a civil government must be installed in East Pakistan; secondly, law and order must be restored before the refugees can return; and thirdly, a rehabilitation programme will have to be carried out because their towns and villages have been completely destroyed and they have nothing to which to return at the present time. I feel that it is in a rehabilitation programme that Australia has a major role to play. All this, of course, will take some time, and in the meantime India is placed in an intolerable position of having to feed and provide for 7 million refugees, which is breaking her economically. It is preventing the Government from honouring its election promises and is stopping it from fully implementing its 5-year plan. 
India initially budgeted for $350m to provide for 3 million refugees in the first 6 months because she thought she would have them for only a few months. Foreign governments have pledged some 200m of this amount. Australia's contribution is $Hm, which of course is less than 1 per cent of the total amount pledged. But now there are 7 million refugees in India and they will be there for at least 12 months. There is no quick and easy solution to this problem. If Australia wants to play her part a sum of at least $10m is needed immediately to assist the Government of India with the refugee problem. The situation in East Pakistan is far worse as there are millions of displaced persons who are not even receiving relief supplies, and they also are in urgent need of assistance from foreign governments. 
I believe that one of the reasons for the small amount of aid channelled into East Pakistan for the cyclone victims, the refugees in India and the displaced persons in East Pakistan is that foreign aid is very low on the list of priorities of the Australian Government. Last year when the Department of Foreign Affairs was reconstructed into 8 divisions, foreign aid was made one of 3 sections in the development division, which indicates its low priority. Surely there should be a separate division of foreign aid within the Department if the priority of aid is to be raised. However, 1 would prefer to see a ministry of overseas development created because it would mean that foreign aid would be given a much higher priority by the Government. It would also mean that Australia was prepared to accept a greater responsibility for development in overseas countries. A ministry of overseas development would enable us to come to grips more quickly with major catastrophes when they occur in these countries. At the present time the Government does not think this way, consequently we do only what we have to do and we are influenced far too much by what other governments are doing. 
Another important aspect is that a ministry of overseas development could liaise more closely with voluntary agencies, which have been doing very effective work in these countries for many years. Whilst the Government may have some difficulty in placing aid on a government to government basis, this is nol so with voluntary agencies, which are able quickly to channel assistance where the need is most urgent. I also feel that a percentage of overseas aid should be channelled through voluntary agencies as it could be better utilised. For these reasons the Government should seek a much closer liaison wilh voluntary agencies. 
I feel that someone must make a firm stand on the great human problems with which India and Pakistan are confronted at the present time. In times of great catastrophes it is up to the Government to come forward and give strong leadership. I am sure that the Australian people would support the Government in any move it made in this direction. However, I regret to say that the Government is not tuned in on the frequency of such disasters and consequently no special effort is made to initiate emergency assistance. We go to the assistance of friendly countries in times of war to the extent of sacrificing thousands of lives and tens of millions of dollars. But in times of peace - when those 2 Commonwealth countries are urgently in need of assistance - nothing sacrificial is being done to help them. It is time we made a firm stand. To date I am not at all satisfied with the Government's contribution to these countries which is mean and paltry to say the least. This being so we must raise our sights much higher and any further assistance must be commensurate with the size of the catastrophe. A sum of at least $50m should be provided for short term relief purpose and for long term rehabilitation programmes in these countries. 
In the time that I have left I want to give several reasons for suggesting why greater assistance should be given to India and Pakistan. Never before has the need been so great as it is at the present time. This is indicated by the refugee problem in India and genocide in East Pakistan. The plight of the refugees is one of the greatest human tragedies of this century and noone can possibly imagine the tragedy of it all unless one is part and parcel of it. Their present predicament is just as serious and challenging as was any crisis in the last war when huge sacrifices and countless billions of dollars were spent to bring it to an end. This type of approach is needed for India and Pakistan at the present time if we are to play om part in the preservation of peace in this region. Another reason for greater assistance is that in less than 6 months East Pakistan has been ravaged by the 2 greatest catastrophes this century: Firstly a cyclone and now civil war. If ever we needed a good reason for immediate action and self-sacrifice the time to act is now because some 15 million to 20 million people in these countries are urgently in need of assistance. If the Australian population were really aware of the plight of these people, their suffering and human indignity, Australians would demand that far more be done by both the Government and private sectors. On humanitarian grounds we cannot possibly write off 20 million people as though they were sheep or poultry. Surely these people have a right to live as human beings? We must accept a greater responsibility for them. (Extension of time granted.) I believe that any foreign aid policy should be based more on need and on moral grounds and should be commensurate with the size of the tragedy. It is for this reason that I have suggested a sum of $50m for relief and long term rehabilitation programmes in these countries. I say this because approximately $50m was provided to assist Indonesia recover from a rebellion which took place in 1965 and recently S25m economic assistance has been announced for Vietnam. 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has been somewhat critical of certain aspects of the Bill. However, I would like to assure the House that considerable concessions have been made, and I shall be mentioning some of them in my speech. Contrary to what the honourable member has said, this Bill will give effect to important social services proposals announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget speech. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has explained these proposals in more detail in presenting the Bill before the House. I would like to add, as secretary of the Government Members Social Services Committee, that I know the Minister to be hard working and deeply conscious of the needs of those who are dependent on social services. He is always seeking some new approach to their problems and is constantly working hard for greater social justice. 1 think this is evident in the Bill he has brought before the House, as the greatest increases have gone to those in greatest need. For instance, the single pensioners will receive the maximum increase of Si. 25 a week. There is also a SI increase in the married rate of pension and for Class B widows. Class A widows will receive an increase of SI. 25 a week and the wife's allowance is to be increased by $1. However, perhaps the most significant part of the Bill is the $2 increase in child allowance payable to all age, invalid and widow pensioners, as well as to recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits. There will also be an increase of 50c in child endowment for the third and subsequent children. The total increased expenditure on social services in the 1971-72 Budget is SI 47m, bringing the total in the Budget to SI, 182m which is an increase of 141 per cent over last year's Budget. 
Expenditure on social welfare and repatriation now constitutes the largest single item of expenditure in the Budget. So it is hardly fair for the honourable member for Oxley to say that the Government has done little in this regard. Coming back to the substantial increase of $2 in child allowance, no doubt all honourable members have had experience with one-parent families. Of course, not all such parents are widows or deserted wives; more than 10,000 widowers come into this category. They do not receive a pension or an allowance. The Government has given high priority to the one-parent family. Many parents in this category have had great difficulty in providing for their young families. Unfortunately, many widows have to go out to work to supplement their income, with the result that their children are neglected or have to fend for themselves. Many a widow has to send her children off to school before 8 a.m. and, as she does not arrive home before 5 p.m., the young children have to look after themselves. 
Under the new provisions in this Bill a widow with 4 children could receive social service payments amounting to $45 a week. I think it is important that I should itemise this $45. It is made up as follows: The basic pension of $17.25, a mother's allowance of $4, children's allowance - that is tor 4 children- of $18 and child endowment of $5.75. In addition the parent can take a part time job and earn up to $26 a week, making a total of $71 a week. I am sure that there are many widows who are not aware of their entitlements under this Bill; it will enable many widows who can supplement their income to stay at home and look after their children. One can never assess the importance of having a mother at home to look after her young family when they arrive home from school and I do feel this is perhaps the most important aspect of this legislation. 
Insofar as age pensioners are concerned, the critics quickly gloss over the many concessions which are of considerable value. Concessions for transport, medical service, postal charges and so on add several dollars to the value of the pension. For instance, the rate for a combined radio and television licence will now rise by $6.50 to $26.50 but pensioners will be unaffected by the rise and will continue to pay only $4. Also I do not think the value of free medical services could ever be accurately assessed for those people who do not keep good health and depend on them. My main criticism perhaps of this Bill is that I would have liked to have seen an increase in the supplementary allowance payable to single pensioners paying rent. There are more than 175.000 pensioners living alone and paying high rent and these are the ones facing the greatest hardship. Many are paying rent as high as $14 a week and this is placing them in a position of extreme hardship. There are also married couples who come into the same category and they are also in need of increased assistance. 
There is another matter I wish to raise. I feel it is a pity the Government has not provided an incentive to encourage young people to maintain their parents in their own homes where they can uphold their dignity and independence. Socially I believe the right place for them is in the home of their families. In many instances young people who look after their parents live frugal lives and many sons or daughters have been prevented from marrying because they have accepted the responsibility of looking after an aged relative. This in itself saves the Government in many instances from having to provide alternative accommodation. Some people make great sacrifices to look after an aged parent or relative and surely such qualities as those should be encouraged. I would have liked to have seen some incentive in the Budget in the form of tax concessions to encourage young people to accept a greater responsibility for their parents because old age is something we all have to face up to at some time or another. I feel that if our elderly citizens are to be adequately provided for we must continually search for improvements in the field of social services. Where there is a genuine need in the community we must all accept a greater responsibility both in the Government and private sectors. Unfortunately today not many people are prepared to accept a greater responsibility for those in necessitous circumstances. Consequently more people are coming into this category and I believe this trend will continue. 
As we become more affluent we seem to care less not only for people in needy circumstances but, as I have said before in this House, also for members of our own families. I am sure this was not the case pre-war when members of large families were prepared to share their possessions with a genuine concern for those in need. I might mention that this is not the position in the Asian countries where it is a family's responsibility to care for the parents and other relatives, and to me they appear to be much happier for the experience. I have been in a house in India where 76 people were living under the one roof; the sons and daughters have married and their children have married and have had more children and so on. The point I am making here is that there may have been only 2 or 3 sons working. However, they were happy to share what they had with the other members of the family. Perhaps it is only under such circumstances that the real meaning of 'to give' and 'to serve' becomes abundantly clear; to give with humility and purpose and to share sacrificially with those in need. Man as he is is incomplete and no doubt has to be completed in our time. Surely if we are to make progress in this direction we have to look a little beyond self-interest. 
Most people in Australia today have never been in a better position to give more freely of their time and means to assist their parents in old age. 1 might mention that the great great grandfather in the house in India where 76 people were living was the complete master in his home. He was prepared to share his house and what he had with other members of his family and was held in respect and, no doubt, loved for it.  His  children were, of course, his means of obtaining social services. He had provided for them and likewise they would look after him until the day he died. The lesson, of course, was that he was not only looked after by his children but also he received their love and affection and, perhaps of even greater importance, had respect and dignity in old age. Unfortunately in Australia today we tend to throw overboard many of these fine attributes and traditions that have stood the test of time. I believe post-war affluence and possessions, together with a more demanding life, have changed our attitudes and motives towards each other to such an extent that we have lost sight of the elementary principles of why we live our lives on earth. 
We are here for very simple reasons and one of these is to help each other. However, as I said before, the Government can do only so much. All it can do is to provide our elderly citizens with the means to obtain adequate necessities in old age or to supplement their savings if they are on superannuation. In retirement, however, I believe our senior citizens are looking for much more than materialistic possessions. I believe what they also seek no government can provide - that is love and understanding from members of their families. I believe it is a great pity that so many of our young people neglect their parents in old age. By so doing they are missing out on something very important in life. Even if the Government had the revenue to provide our elderly citizens with everything they need and accepted full responsibility for them, they would be missing something vital - that is that warm, human, personal and friendly touch that only members of a family can provide. 
A more happy and satisfactory life for our senior citizens, invalids, TPIs and so on can come about only as a partnership where members of a family must accept a greater responsibility along with the Government. I am sure that if more people showed a genuine interest and made some sacrificial contribution towards assisting those in need they would be happier and more contented for the experience. I know that such an approach would certainly encourage the Government to a far greater effort. 
In conclusion, I repeat that no government should be expected to take over the entire responsibility of caring for those in need while members of their families contribute little to their welfare. However, where it is proved that there are no relatives or people able to assist I believe the Government should accept a full responsibility. These simple facts are the fundamental principles of Christianity and of course, this is what social service is all about. It is about time these principles were practised more in our daily lives. This Bill has many good proposals and I commend it to the House. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government aware that there is mounting agitation among the churches, voluntary agencies and certain sections of the public concerning the Australian Government's small contribution to the refugee problem in India? This catastrophe is the greatest human disaster this century and the people of Austrafia are demanding that the Government come to the assistance of these impoverished people in a more sacrificial way. That is evident from a fast commenced by 3 young men on the steps of the Melbourne General Post Office. As Australia prides herself as a free peaceloving country which is ever ready to come to the assistance of people in times of need, is it the intention of the Government to provide assistance commensurate with the size of this catastrophe? Also, as it is costing the Indian Government $100m a month to maintain the refugees will the Minister bring this matter before Cabinet with a view to providing an immediate grant of $10m in cash and and material aid to help relieve the suffering and human indignity of some 8 million East Pakistani refugees? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some 20 million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems- ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale- the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet to be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that 3 men, Paul Poernomo, Steve Rooney and Geoff Evans, have commenced a fast outside Parliament House? Their aim is to highlight the desperate plight of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees in India and millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, most of whom face famine conditions and ultimate death unless large scale assistance is provided by foreign governments. Will the Minister inform the House whether the Commonwealth Government is prepared to make a more sacrificial contribution of $10m to help to alleviate the plight of these impoverished people? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9,000,000 East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some 20,000,000 refugees and dis placed persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation nutrition and child family problems ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way 
Your petitioners, therefore, most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide$10m for relief purposes In India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over 3 years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will  ever  pray. 
Petition received. 
I was pleased with yesterday's announcement by the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  of the increased foreign aid contribution of  $1.5m  to assist the East Pakistani refugees in India and the displaced persons in East Pakistan. I was particularly pleased to hear that the Government proposed sending $500,000 worth of rice to East Pakistan, as many of these people face famine conditions brought about by disturbances within the country. I say this because any aid that is provided by the Government must be provided free of political motives and must be given more on need and on humanitarian grounds. However, after some months of representations it goes without saying that I am disappointed with the Government's increased contribution of$1. 5m. I have no hesitation in saying that absolutely no notice has been taken of my strong representations over a long period of time and I am beginning to wonder whether I have been wasting my time. I regret having continually to raise this matter in Parliament and in other ways. However, I would have thought that by now the Government might have got the message, that is, that this is the greatest catastrophe of this century and that we have a moral right and responsibility to come to the assistance of these unfortunate people in a more sacrificial way. To date little notice has been taken of my pleas or for that matter the pleas of anyone else. I am beginning to wonder who makes the decisions for the Government. 
I would like to know who are the experts in this field and how they reach these decisions. When no notice is taken of one's representations one begins to wonder just what his role in this Parliament really is. If assistance provided by the Government for the survivors of the tragic cyclone last November, which ravaged the off-shore islands and coastal regions of East Pakistan, is any indication of our concern for these people, as only $425,000 was provided, I am not really surprised that only $3m has been provided to date for the relief of Pakistani war refugees. 
I have said before in this House that the Government is not tuned in on the frequency of human suffering or for that matter major catastrophes which occur from time to time around the world. It is quite obvious to me that we have no foreign policy in regard to such matters. We just sit back and do no more than we have to do, or again we compare what we are doing with what is being done by other countries of comparable size, which, of course, produces very little help for the millions of refugees and displaced persons who are already dyingin their thousands each day. How much longer are we to procrastinate while millions die? When will the Government really sit up and take notice of this great catstrophe the greatest this century? I repeat that this is the greatest catastrophe of this century. This catastrophe must be tackled on a far greater scale than anything else we have done in this field. Without a doubt there will be mortality on an unprecedented scale unless economic assistance on a war footing is quickly provided. One of the reasons for the present high rate of mortality is the lack of protein and the conditions under which so many of the refugees are living in these camps. However insofar as East Pakistan is concerned, some of the best rice growing areas are still unproductive because of salinity deposits which are a direct result of the cyclone last year. When I was there recently some 90 per cent of the people were still dependent on relief supplies whereas previously this was an area which produced a surplus of rice. 
Another reason for the acute shortage of food in East Pakistan is because of genocide in many towns and villages which has resulted in nearly 9 million refugees leaving their farms. Many more millions in East Pakistan have been prevented from sowing their crops because of civil war. Hundreds of thousands of these people are continually on the move within the country to avoid the liberation army and that of the government. Also when one considers' that the whole Bengal delta is in the grip of the worst monsoon post-war the transportation of relief supplies has become a most difficult operation. The result has been that many millions of East Pakistanis already face famine conditions. The present situation is critical. Unless large scale assistance is quickly provided acute famine conditions and ultimately death face millions of these people, particularly young children. I trust that the $500,000 worth of rice provided by the Government is quickly followed by greater assistance. 
In order to assist the Government to make a quick decision on this great human problem I shall refer to some statistics from other countries which have channelled funds through the United Nations for the East Pakistan refugees in India. Of course much more aid has been channelled directly through voluntary agencies and the Government of India. To the end of September, 48 countries had contributed funds through the United Nations. All but a few have given cash donations. India urgently needs these cash donations to buy food from these countries. To date the total pledges in cash and kind which have been channelled through the world food programme is $109,835,632. Of this amount $53. 3m has been a cash contribution and $56. 6m has been provided in material goods such as rice, milk powder, edible oil and other foodstuffs, shelter material, medical supplies, clothing, blankets, etc. Any of the above items are urgently needed as is cash lo buy food and material goods in India. To make matters worse, the United Nations fund is practically exhausted at the present time. It has been officially stated that only $2.7m is left. Therefore the Australian Government should immediately and without fear of political implications substantially increase its contribution through the United Nations and other voluntary agencies working in these areas. My reason for saying this is that Sweden which is 'a country half the size of Australia has already contributed $6m. The United Kingdom $7.lm and the United States of America $70.5m. 
Australia prides itself as a free, peaceloving country, ever ready to come to the assistance of others in times of need. Well, never before have so many people in the world needed succour as the 20 million refugees and displaced persons in East and West Bengal. Repeated calls for assistance have been made by the Governments of India and East Pakistan.* United Nations and other world leaders have warned of the gravity of the situation as millions of peasant farmers and small shopkeepers must inevitably die unless immediate large scale assistance is provided. Already 100.000 children have died and a further 500,000 are doomed to die before Christmas. At the present time the Australian people are looking for strong moral leadership. They expect the Government to come to the assistance of these impoverished people in a more sacrificial way. If Australia is to continue to call itself a Christian community we can no longer procrastinate while millions die. 
I wish to direct my remarks to the secular Acts under which education is administered in the States. Prior to the introduction of the Education Act of 1872 in Victoria, under which education became free, compulsory and secular, the churches ran most, if not all, of the schools, and much the same happened in the other States. This secular Act has been operating in Victoria for 99 years. Of course, it precludes any of the education grant being used to teach religion in schools. There was a very good reason for the introduction of the 1872 Act. Prior to the turn of the century most of the churches wanted their own schools for their own denominations in sparsely populated areas, with the result that it was costing de States far too much money as they had to subsidise the churches. However, the situation has changed greatly, particularly during the post-war period. For instance, there are more than 3 million people in Victoria. But the important point I want to make is that for certain reasons today people just do not go to church. It means that their children do not have the opportunities that existed when this secular Act was introduced in Victoria. 
When national reservists are called up for training they go along to their training camps and they are interviewed. Of course they are asked the obvious questions: What church do you belong to? What contact have you made with the church? Fewer than 10 per cent have made any contact with the church. I think this is most alarming. It certainly brings home the point I am endeavouring to make here, that of the national reservists who were interviewed fewer than 10 per cent had made any contact with the church. For this reason 1 would like to see the old secular Act changed. To me it appears to be illogical. It is incomplete. 
I do not quite see the logic of spending some SI, 500m, as the States and the Commonwealth are spending on education this year, giving our children every opportunity of developing mentally, physically and emotionally if they miss out on their spiritual growth. I venture to say that their spiritual development is just as important as any of the other 3 attributes I have mentioned. I will go even further and say that it is as important as the other three put together. Of course, this was one of the reasons why the Council for Christian Education in Schools was formed in Victoria in 1950. A few years later the Education Act was amended to enable chaplains to be appointed to secondary schools. Some 28 appointments have been made over the past number of years. Many more schools want to appoint chaplains, but it costs between $4,500 and $5,000 to appoint a chaplain to a secondary school. As I have mentioned, under the secular Act none of the education grant can be used, lt means that this money has to be raised on a voluntary basis. Each of these chaplains at the secondary schools has a district chaplaincy committee working to raise funds. Approximately one-third of the money is raised by the local churches, another one-third is raised by the school and the local chaplaincy committee raises the other one-third in various ways, mainly through donations and voluntary effort. 
I do not think that anyone could assess truly the advantages of having a chaplain in a secondary school. For certain reasons students want to contact a minister of religion. The important thing is not so rauch the work that a chaplain does insofar as religious instruction is concerned; it is the counselling that is carried out in the schools. He has his own study. Any of the students can seek the chaplain out. One cannot truly assess the advantages to be derived from having a chaplain there. He is able to provide the students with information that could be of great assistance to them for the rest of their lives. The Victorian Government recognised the important work carried out by the Council for Christian Education in Schools and provide a grant of $40,000 per annum to assist with the appointment of chaplains. These appointments are mainly carried out in industrial areas because the people in those areas are not able to raise the $4,500 to $5,000. A lot of the very important work of school chaplains is carried out in industrial areas. 
Religion in schools is primarily an educational subject and I see no reason why it should not become an integral part of any school curriculum in much the same way as other subjects are taught. Local churches must also realise that they have a vital part to play in education, and one way of assisting is with the appointment of chaplains to secondary schools. I know that the Council for Christian Education in Schools in Victoria and its counterparts in the other States are anxious to carry out research in education with a view to expanding chaplaincy work. However, they are prevented from doing so because of lack of finance. For this reason I would like to see the Commonwealth Government support the Council by providing a grant ot $250,000 for the purposes I have just expounded, as I really do believe that a return to religion in our State education system could well mean that our schools could turn out better balanced students, better able to adjust and meet the challenge of modern day living. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australians is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further$50m over 3 years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also thay are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies to assist their work in these countries. 
As some 20 million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
You petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least $5m immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I am pleased that this ministerial statement has enabled foreign aid to be debated as I believe the general public is vitally concerned with what is happening in Bengal. This is indicated by the large amount of mail, telegrams and petitions that I and, I know, other honourable members have been receiving. I think it is important that the general public should show its concern by contacting the elected members of Parliament. The catastrophe in Bengal is the greatest catastrophe this century and 1 saw plenty of evidence of this on my recent visit to quite a number of refugee camps in West Bengal. Whilst India is doing a wonderful job in coping with the refugee problem and has most of her civil servants working around the clock, there is, of course, a limit to what she can do. Unfortunately to add to the situation Bengal is experiencing the worst monsoon postwar and to the uninitiated many of the refugee camps present a panorama of suffering and death. There is no doubt about that. The plight of the refugees in many of these camps is indescribable, lt is far worse than any picture or story one has seen or read and unless the refugees are quickly dispersed to better camp sites, preferably back to East Pakistan, there will be mortality on an unprecedented scale. There is already mortality on a large scale. 
I believe we are failing in our duty by not going to the assistance of these people in a more sacrificial way. For these reasons the Government's additional allocation of $2.5m is disappointing. It still only represents less than 0.5 per cent of the total amount of $ 1,200m that is needed each year to provide for the refugees. The United States of America has recently announced an additional contribution of $125m in cash. I must emphasise that cash is urgently needed because it enables the Indian Government to buy food items in India. It can be immediately used and no transport costs are involved. Britain has also provided an additional $17m and Sweden, a country approximately half our size, has provided Si Om in cash and has already promised further large cash contributions. This is the type of aid that India and Pakistan need. They need it in cash and it is disappointing that of this additional $2.5m only $500,000 is in cash. It obviously will take some considerable time before the balance of $2m is utilised. They urgently need this additional cash now to provide for the refugees and I would like the Minister to give further consideration to sending portion of this additional $2m in cash. 
One of the factors which influences government thinking on overseas aid is, of course, that we are providing 1 per cent of our gross national product. As the Minister said in his statement, we are fourth on the list of donor countries. But why be fourth? Why not be first, second or third? This magical percentage of 1 per cent was never intended to be the beginning and end to overseas aid. It was only intended to be a percentage which foreign governments might aim for in normal times. I hasten to say that these are not normal times. As we know, and as so many honourable members have said, Bengal is being ravaged by the greatest catastrophe this century. There is no doubt about that. Some 20 million people are involved and there will be mortality on an unprecedented scale unless hundreds of millions of dollars are quickly provided. Australia must accept far greater responsibility because of the dimensions of the Bengal catastrophe and our assistance must be commensurate with the scale of the catastrophe. It must be determined on that basis. Our assistance must be provided on need and any further contribution should be over and above anything we have ever done in the past because aid on a huge scale is needed if we are to come to grips with the problem there. The Bengal disaster is an emergency on an unprecedented scale. 
These are not normal times and we must act on humanitarian grounds. We cannot look at it from a cold statistical point of view and say that we are providing 1 per cent or even 10 per cent of our gross national product. This provides little comfort for the millions of refugees who have not even the bare necessities required for survival. An emergency situation of this magnitude where millions of human beings face famine and ultimate death can only be tackled on one basis, and that is on need determined on humanitarian grounds. Precedents have been set in the past. We have to go back only to the years 1965 to 1967, the years of the Bihar famine. The Australian Government at that time came to the assistance of India and the survivors of the Bihar famine in a most sacrificial way. For instance, it granted large consignments of food aid. In March 1965 it provided $7.8m worth of food aid. Eleven months later, in February 1966, another $8m worth of emergency food aid was provided. This was predominantly wheat but it also included skim milk powder and other food items. The very next year, in 1967, we provided an additional $9m of emergency food aid. That amounted to $25m worth of emergency food aid in under 3 years. 
Because the Australian Government and other governments quickly came to the assistance of the victims of the Bihar famine in a sacrificial way a large scale famine was averted. I must go further and say that the Bihar famine was not on the scale of the present catastrophe in West Bengal. We have heard other honourable members speak about the grave situation there - about the great need for providing for the refugees. We must always remember the millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, who are worse off than the refugees in many cases because they are not even getting relief supplies. This catastrophe is far greater than the Bihar famine for which we provided $25m. Again, we provided $US60m to assist Indonesia to recover from the rebellion of 1965. That $US60m was spread over 3 years. Again I stress that the catastrophe in Indonesia was nowhere near the scale of the Bihar famine. 
I cannot understand the Government's piecemeal approach to this great tragedy in West Bengal and East Pakistan. Had the Government seized the initiative and provided a substantial grant, as was the case during the Bihar famine, there would have been little public outcry as there is today We have experienced some 3,000 people in Canberra, including members of Parliament, holding a lunch hour fast outside Parliament House to bring prominence to bear on this great catastrophe in Bengal. I believe that the Government still has a lot to learn in the field of foreign aid as it is a complete newcomer compared with the voluntary agencies which have been working in these countries for 30 or 40 years and even longer. 
I feel that the Government should take more notice of the representations of the voluntary agencies and seek a much closer liaison with them. For the past 3 months the voluntary agencies have been requesting the Government to increase its aid contribution to $10ra. However, it has been all to no avail. Yet apparently at the request of the United Nations just recently we have quickly responded with an additional $2.Sm. This indicates what little influence the voluntary agencies have had on Government thinking. To me this is a piecemeal approach to a great human problem. I intend to speak out strongly on these issues as I believe the Government to be out of touch with the grave situation in Bengal. On humanitarian grounds I cannot accept an additional $2.Sm as a sacrificial contribution to the greatest catastrophe this century. Therefore, I am left with no alternative but to support the amendment. 
I present the following pet  ition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representaves in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respecfully showeth: 
that death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
that, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Australian Government take steps to offer employment, at least on a temporary basis, and in order to effect some relief, to academic and qualified persons among the persons from Bangla Desh. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned respectively showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government grant income tax deductions for donations over two dollars made towards the relief of overseas disaster areas. 
That this be effected with haste to ensure the maximum possible aid to those at present in refugee camps and those in danger of famine in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To The Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are deeply concerned about the plight of the East Pakistani refugees in India. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will immediately increase aid by $10 million to the Pakistani refugees, exclusive of the cost of distribution. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced' by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced person are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that In tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over 3 years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people .of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death oh an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. It is reported that some 10,000 people died and another 5 million are in urgent need of assistance as a result of the cyclone and tidal wave that struck the Indian State of Orissa 11 days ago. Can the Minister inform the House whether the Commonwealth Government has contacted the Indian Government offering asistance? If so, what amount of aid is envisaged? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come  to  their assistance in  a  more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide$10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to  the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is reported that the armed conflict in East Pakistan has already resulted in tens of thousands of additional Pakistanis being forced to leave their farms and villages in the battle areas around Jessore and in the north. Is the Minister aware that the fighting between India and Pakistan will considerably increase the refugee problem within the country? As it is obvious that the refugee position will considerably worsen, has the Government any plans for immediate relief assistance or will it adopt its usual wait and see policy which, of course provides little succour for the refugees? 
-I present the following petition: 
To  theHonourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned aboutthe desperate plight  of  millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness  to  contribute substantial funds  to voluntary  agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedentedscale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further$50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in 'duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and dis placed persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutritionand child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to (heir assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide$ 10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It has been reported that armed hostilities between India and Pakistan have prevented Australian aid being flown into Calcutta airport. If Calcutta airport has been closed to foreign aircraft, could the Minister arrange to have our emergency aid flown into Madras, Hyderabad or Vishakhapatnam - which is only 350 miles south of Calcutta - from where it could be transported by road to refugee camps in West Bengal? If this is not possible will the Government make an immediate grant in cash to enable goods to be purchased in West Bengal? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and. Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representiatves in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Parliament in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth. 
That as part of the world community, the Austalian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action on behalf of those sulfering and left without home or work through their effective expulsion as refugees from East Pakistan. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled should - 
Urge that the Australian Government take steps to offer employment at least on a temporary basis, and in order to effect some relief, to academic and qualified persons among the refugees from Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware that it will be many months before rail and road services are operating normally in Bangla Desh and that less than 25 per cent of goods arriving at the port of Chittagong are moved without considerable delay? Can the Minister inform the House where the $700,000 worth of aid to Bangla Desh in the form of food, medical and building supplies, etc. is earmarked? Is the Minister aware of the importance of getting the land back into production as quickly as possible and that cash is needed immediately to buy small tillers and irrigation equipment which can be bought in Calcutta and Singapore? If so, will the Government give consideration to making available a cash grant which can be immediately utilised? 
 I am sure that many electors within Holt will welcome the announcement of an increase in the unemployment benefit from SIO to SI  7  a week. Unfortunately many people in my electorate found themselves out of work as a result of the State-wide power strike. In addition to those affected as a result of the strike there is high unemployment in the electorate and J am genuinely sympathetic with anyone who, through no fault of his own, is unable to obtain a position. This is particularly hard on parents with young families attending school. These increased benefits will be of some help! 
In emergency situations, such as the power strike, there seems to be an unbridgeable gap between the employer and the employee. Suddenly, without knowing what it is all about, people find themselves out of work. There seems to be no compromise on either side, no tapering off as one would expect in big industries and big unions. Big business and big unions have great power, as was so ably highlighted in a sermon titled 'Power' by the Most Reverend  Dr Frank  Woods. Primate of Australia and Archbishop of Melbourne, when he was guest preacher at the ecumenical service in St Andrew's Presbyterian Church this morning to mark the opening of our parliamentary year. I strongly recommend that all directors of big business and the executives and shop stewards of trade unions obtain a copy of his sermon and thoroughly study its contents. 
Power is dangerous when vested in the hands of a few, particularly when innocent people are suddenly affected. People must realise that this power is granted to them by God and it is to be used in the best interests of the people. These thoughts are the fundamental principles of Christianity which must be demonstrated and practised more in our daily lives, particularly in big business and big unions, if people are not going to be hurt. I have often wondered why big businesses are not better organised, why they suddenly have to dismiss hundreds of people, as they have done recently in my electorate. This was before the power strike. Surely they should be better able to judge their potential more accurately. It is obvious that they must know that production from their industries is outstripping demand, and subsequent action should be taken more progressively. But no. they like to saturate the market, then suddenly call a halt, with the result that hundreds of workers are affected. Surely the employer must realise he is dealing with human beings who have responsibilities to maintain their families, and that he is nol dealing just with motor cars and other materialistic things. I emphasise that human beings are not playthings. 
If firms persist in continuing with their stop-go tactics of hiring and firing people at will they should be penalised and made to contribute to the unemployment benefits of their affected employees. I am sure that if this was made compulsory they would be able to organise their businesses more effectively. In my electorate it has been left to the churches, community service groups and the Springvale, Dandenong, Berwick and Cranbourne local councils to supplement assistance in the form of food vouchers, with very little active participation on behalf of some employers. It is about time that employers realised that they also have a responsibility within the community in which their products are produced. 
I cannot speak too highly of the voluntary groups, individuals and donors who did a great job in assisting with and processing the needs of the unemployed and in providing assistance where necessary. One cannot readily assess the importance of a voluntary effort within a community. This was very evident within my electorate, particularly within the townships of Dandenong, Springvale, Berwick and Cranbourne, where a large number of people were ever ready to assist. I only trust that some of it rubs off on the firms, as they should realise that they are not just there to increase their dividends to shareholders each year. Unfortunately, for certain reasons many of those unemployed, particularly migrants, were unaware that they had to register to receive unemployment benefit and consequently missed out until they had registered. In instances such as this, all one should need to do to become eligible is to produce evidence that one has been unemployed from a certain date. The same principle should apply with respect to sickness benefit. 
Finally, I commend the Government for quickly making a decision to increase unemployment, sickness and special benefits. These have been increased from $10 a week to $17 a week for adults, from $6 a week to $11 a week for persons from 18 years to 20 years of age and from $4.50 a week to $7.50 a week for those in the age group from 16 to 17 years. The wife's allowance remains at $8 a week as does the allowance of $4.50 a week for each child. The allowance for each child was increased from $2.50 to $4.50 a week in the last Budget. 
An important aspect of this Bill is that those who qualify for special benefits will receive the increased rate as soon as this Bill is passed. This category includes some women caring for invalid parents or other relatives, some migrants not residentially qualified for normal pensions and certain unmarried mothers. This will provide much needed relief. As these increased subsidies are urgently awaited within the community, I am sure that this Bill will have a speedy passage through the Parliament. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Foster)  adjourned. 
No doubt many stories will be written about the birth of Bangla Desh. However, the main factor which brought about its creation was the greatest movement of refugees this century - as some 10 million refugees crossed into the nearby Indian States - from mainly West Bengal, during the 9 months commencing March 25th 1971, up to the end of November. It is well known why they came, as the story of the refugees has been constantly told throughout the world per media of the press, radio, television, etc. 
As Bangla Desh commences its first few weeks as a sovereign State, many more stories of genocide and atrocities begin to unfold. That such inhuman acts have been committed on these people is beyond our comprehension. However, now that the people are free to speak without fear and intimidation, many more stories of persecution and genocide will be told. Whilst millions of refugees were able to escape to India, millions more within East Pakistan were refugees within their own country, and some 3 million of these lost their lives in a gruesome way. It will be many months or years before the full story is told as many of the survivors are mentally disturbed and stupefied by what has happened in their cities and villages over the past 12 months. There is no doubt many more would have lost their lives had India not invaded East Pakistan and quickly brought an end to this horrible massacre of innocent people. 
However, not all the atrocities and killing were on one side as many parties were involved. I do not have the time to go into this matter right now. No doubt the determining factor which forced India's hand was the refugee problem as she could not alone cope with the intolerable position where she had to provide for some 10 million refugees, as it was affecting India's economy, and this was preventing her from tackling her own enormous problems of poverty, illiteracy, over-population, etc. However, perhaps of greater importance, had this situation continued many of the children in the 1,000 refugee camps faced acute problems of malnutrition and there would have been mortality on an unprecedented scale had they had to endure life much longer in these camps. As it was, some 400,000 children are reported to have died and this was quite evident when one observed the few infants returning home with their parents now that they are free to do so. 
India's invasion of East Pakistan on 3rd December 1971 quickly brought an end to all this. Few armed conflicts have brought so much happiness and joy to so many people. It is obvious America and other 
Western countries were not happy with India's action. However, they failed to understand the intolerable position she found herself in. Her great victory quickly brought freedom for the people of Bangla Desh and the refugees in India and this alone warranted India's action. The only criticism one can perhaps level at India is that her invasion should have taken place many months earlier. Had this happened the large red centre of the Bangla Desh flag, which indicates the blood of those who gave their lives in their fight for liberation, might not have appeared so prominently. What has happened is now the history of Bangla Desh. It is fortunate that the war was over in 14 days and that this very beautiful country and its happy and carefree people have been liberated. 
Whilst India did everything possible to provide for the refugees, their plight in the camps was grim and desperate, particularly during the monsoon, which was the worst in 25 years, as thousands continued to arrive each day with a peak of from 70,000 to 100,000 a day from April to June 1971. Never before has there been such a large movement of refugees. How India provided for such large numbers each day only a few district commissioners and those directly involved could possibly tell. Prior to the war even the most optimistic person believed that a certain percentage of the refugees would be in India for many years. However, a miracle has happened. The refugees have returned to their new country at the rate of one million a week which was never expected. They were such a pitiful lot as they arrived carrying their few scanty possessions with them and many did not survive those harrowing months. 
Now it is all over. Many people have asked why it is that they have returned in such numbers so soon after liberation and what they could possibly hope to find from the ruins of their homes and villages and the sad memories that precipitated their departure. However, to see them trekking back fewer in numbers by 500,000 - scrambling onto the hundreds of trucks, buses and trains which have been employed by the Government of India to evacuate them from the camps - is truly a miracle. Their ready acceptance to return must have been motivated by a natural instinct to return to their country of birth. 
The movement of these unfortunate people in such large numbers makes the Normandy landing and D-Day operations, which were meticulously planned by top military administrators, tiny by comparison as a Dunkirk has taken place each day in the evacuation of the refugees back to Bangla Desh. It must also be remembered that the refugees - illiterate farmers, small shopkeepers and so on - were not disciplined like servicemen. However, their return to their villages with great haste and efficiency equalled any carefully planned military operation of the last war. It is perhaps natural that these people would want to return to their country of birth and the loved ones they left behind. However, allowing for all these factors, the evacuation of 10 million refugeeswithin a few weeks is truly a miracle. Whilst the Press came from around the world to record the plight of the refugees in India, their great evacuation has gone unheralded. 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Earlier today I took part in the 'Grievance Day' debate and I mentioned some of the problems concerning the new sovereign State ofBangla Desh. However, time did not permit me to complete what I wished to say so I am taking the opportunity of doing so in the adjournment debate. Earlier this month I visited Bangla Desh and had discussions with Sheik Mujibur Rahman, the Prime Minister. He spoke to me with great emotion and told me something of the many problems confronting his people.Bangla Desh, with its 75 million people, is our newest sovereign state. It is a Commonwealth country and the people there have to rebuild their land from the ruins of war and genocide. They face a tremendous task. Thirty million people are homeless, and 50 per cent of the schools have been destroyed. The transport system has been completely disrupted as many railway bridges were blown up and few buses and only limited transport generally are now operating. In addition to this, three-quarters of the land has not grown a crop in the last 12 months. At present they are completely dependent upon relief supplies, as some 250,00 tons of food grains - that is, wheat and rice - are needed each month. In addition, 100,000 tons of high protein foods - skim milk powder, drugs, medicines, etc. - are required each month. They require 100,000 tons of cement, 50,000 tons of corrugated iron and 50,000 tons of building materials for the building of bridges, homes and other buildings. As I mentioned, these quantities of materials are needed monthly and will be required for the next 12 months on this basis. 
Surely the future is not bright for these unfortunate people who have had to cope with 3 great catastrophes in the last 15 months. I have mentioned before in this House the tragic cyclone that occurred on the 9th, 12th and 13th November 1970. It ravaged the off-shore islands and coastal regions of East Pakistan, as the country was then known, killing 1.5 million people and leaving some 5 million people homeless. As honourable members know, only in last March there was a civil war in the country. There was genocide in many towns and villages. This resulted in some 10 million refugees fleeing to nearby Indian States, mainly West Bengal. The third catastrophe happened only last December when there was war with Pakistan. Surely no other country has had to endure 3 such catastrophes in the short space of 15 months. 
I was pleased to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  say in answer to a question this morning in this House that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  may visit Bangla Desh. I am sure he will be warmly welcomed as Australians are very popular in Bangla Desh at the present time. Australia was the first Western country to recognise the sovereign state of Bangla Desh. We have had a long association with that area going back to the early days of 1944 when Lord Casey was the Governor of Bengal, which included the new sovereign state of Bangla Desh. He was also Minister for External Affairs and he visited these areas many times. Because of the great need in the country I think it is important for our Minister for Foreign Affairs to go and see these things for himself. I am sure that he will approach them in a sympathetic and humanitarian way and that he will not be influenced too much from the point of view of the gross national product. This magical figure of 1 per cent of the gross national product that we seem to hear so much about is not the beginning and the end of overseas aid. It was intended in the first instance only to indicate a percentage at which foreign governments might aim in normal times but I stress again that these are not normal times. Bangla Desh has been confronted with these 3 great catastrophes and is in desperate need of assistance. 
The visit of our Minister for Foreign Affairs to Bangla Desh is a very important one. He will be one of the first Foreign Ministers to go to that country and his visit will have an important bearing on our aid commitment. I am sure that he will approach the problems there in a sympathetic frame of mind and will consider them from a humanitarian point of view. No country has been confronted in this century with the problems that Bangla Desh has to face at the present time. The people of Bangla Desh have great faith and trust in their present Prime Minister, Sheik Mujibur Rahman, but they will soon become very disillusioned unless he provides much needed relief. In other words, unless he produces the goods he will not be very popular for very long. 
Surely the people of Bangla Desh have suffered enough. On humanitarian grounds foreign countries must come to their assistance in a sacrificial way. We have a major part to play. The country urgently needs cash. I stress this point again: The country urgently needs cash today - not tomorrow - to buy tillers and irrigation equipment to get the land back into production. It is important that the people get the land into production and produce their own food. Cash is urgently needed to build homes and to help with rehabilitation programmes. This is why I stress that it is important that we make a cash contribution to provide immediate relief needs right now. This contribution should be supported with an amount of approximately $40m for a rehabilitation programme. In this case, Australia would take over the commitment for a certain area and send in not experts but practical people to get the land back into production as quickly as possible. This would be worked in conjunction with the building of homes, hospitals and schools. But I stress that an immediate cash grant of approximately $10m is needed now to meet immediate relief needs. The country faces tremendous problems and it is up to all foreign governments to come to its assistance in a sacrificial way. Otherwise, there will be mortality on an unprecedented scale. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will shortly visit Bangla Desh to assess the urgent needs of the people. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry a question. It was reported by a member of the Victorian Egg Board,  Mr B.  Talbot, that 540 million surplus eggs are to be dumped into the sea this year. This situation is scandalous while millions of people in India and Bangla Desh are dying of starvation. Will the Minister raise this matter in Cabinet with a view to providing surplus high protein egg pulp to the needy people of Bangla Desh? 
Two Bills are under discussion before the House. I wish to direct my remarks to the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill, the purpose of which is to increase per capita grants to independent schools. As the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  said, these grants were first made available from the beginning of 1970 at the annual rates of $35 a head in primary schools and $50 a head in secondary schools. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  recently announced that the new rates would now be $50 a head in primary schools and S68 a head in secondary schools, from the beginning of 1972. For some time the Government has supported independent schools by providing funds for both capital and recurrent purposes Where capital funds are made available the Commonwealth has established objective standards against which the entitlement of an individual independent school can be judged. This is done for science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools. 
When the question of recurrent expenditure in independent schools is considered, a different set of circumstances applies. The Commonwealth Government, in common with nearly all the State governments, has chosen to provide per capita payments for all children in primary and secondary schools without any kind of means test. This method of assistance has been supported by the National Council for Independent Schools which recently issued a strongly worded statement explaining its view. It is also supported by the Federal Catholic Schools Committee. There have been many discussions on State aid. However, it is generally overlooked by those people who oppose State aid that the secular Act operating in most States does not provide funds for teachers to teach religion in State schools. To all other intents and purposes independent and State schools function much the same. Therefore the whole basis for discussion on State aid must surely evolve from the importance of religion. During the last century religion was always part, of the school curriculum, particularly in the early life of Australian schools and in most other school systems around the world. 
The churches pioneered education and most governments were happy to subsidise the churches for accepting this responsibility. Why should they not continue to subsidise independent schools whilst the States are having difficulties, mainly due to overcrowding in some areas? Also there is the question of economics and the right of the parents to choose their children's schools. Parents do have a right to the choice of a school for their children and as taxpayers they are entitled to have a part of the cost of educating their children met from government revenue. Those parents who prefer to send their children to independent schools are entitled to expect governments to contribute directly to the cost of running those schools, provided the parents continue to accept a reasonable share of the cost themselves. 
In government schools very large sums of Commonwealth and State moneys have been spent on education, and rightly so. However in independent schools the very considerable efforts of the parents are now supplemented by the Commonwealth and State governments for both capital and recurrent purposes. However this support is still significantly less than the total support which governments provide for State schools. However, I am not saying that State schools have everything provided; far from it. Having served on the advisory council of 5 high schools I am well aware of the problems of commencing these schools in developing areas. I have never quite seen the logic of spending about $250,000 as we do on a secondary school these days, when little is done to complete site works. This creates problems for the staff and parent bodies who do a very good job in establishing these schools in developing areas. 
Prior to the introduction of the Education Act of 1872 in Victoria, under which education became free, compulsory and secular, the churches ran most of the schools. This Act has been operating in Victoria for 100 years and, as previously mentioned, it precludes any of the education grant being used to teach religion in schools. In 1872 there was a good reason for the introduction of this Act, as prior to the turn of the century most of the churches wanted their own schools for their own denominations in sparsely populated areas, with the result that it was costing too much money, as the State governments at that time subsidised the churches. However, this situation has changed, particularly during the post war period. We now have a greatly increased population. As a matter of fact our population has increased more rapidly than has that of any other country in the world on a percentage basis, with the possible exception of Israel, and this of course has created some problems, as I have mentioned. 
However the important point I wish to make is that percentage-wise many fewer people attend church these days because of counter attractions. This means that thenchildren do not have the same opportunities the existed when this secular Act was introduced in Victoria. To illustrate this point, when reservists are called up for training they are interviewed by Army chaplains and asked the obvious questions: What church do you belong to? What contact have you made with the church in recent years? About 90 per cent claim no contact with the church whatsoever. I think this is most alarming. It certainly brings me to the point I am endeavouring to make, that of all the national reservists called up for military service in recent years, fewer than 10 per cent have made any contact with the church. 
It is obvious parents are not accepting the same responsibilities as was the case at the turn of the century and if our youth are not given encouragement in the home, I feel they should receive more incentive whilst they are at school. It is for this reason I would like to see the old secular Act changed, as to me it appears to be illogical and incomplete in its present form. As I have said before, I do not quite see the logic of spending some $ 1,600m, as the States and the Commonwealth are spending on education this financial year, to provide our children with an opportunity of developing mentally, physically and emotionally, if they miss out on spiritual development. I venture to say this spiritual growth is just as important as are any of the former. I will go further and say that it is more important. 
There are few words in the dictionary which have such an impact on our society as the word 'education', as we are all affected in some way. One might go so far as to say that everything near and dear to us is an integral part of education, as it all begins with the education of the young child in the home. When we use the term to educate' just what do we mean? If we look at 'Webster's' we will find it refers to many important matters, such as the attaining of knowledge, development of mind and character; it also refers to morals and attributes, skills and methods; also other matters such as human understanding and self reliance. We can go much further iri trying to define the term education' by including such definitions as love, courage, faith in God, the acceptance of responsibility, our sense of art and beauty, our pleasures of the past and our hopes of the future, our respect for each other. Even such matters as birth control and racial discrimination must surely be tied up in any education system.  1  would like to go further and say we should also educate the people to look beyond self interests - we should also educate the people to give sacrificiously. When I say this I refer to the hungry people of Bangla Desh and India, the victims of racial discrimination, and the orphans of the wars in Vietnam and Bangla Desh. I say again, how can we possibly exclude religion when we refer to the above matters, as they are surely part of each other. The freedom to worship is perhaps the greatest cherished right we have. However. I must go further and say it is the most neglected. For people to say religion is not an integral part of education indicates how little they understand its true meaning, and this surely strengthens the case for the removal of our secular education act. 
Ali this leads me to say I would like to see a Ministry for Religion, which could be a top Cabinet portfolio in Federal Parliament. Such a minister could liaise closely with government departments, particularly the Department of Education, the Department of Health and the Department of Social Services. It could also liaise closely with the churches and provide financial assistance for the church in developing areas by making crown grants of land available where necessary. This is not new thinking of course. It has been done in Australia before and in many European countries. In West Germany they go much further as an additional income tax is levied, and this provides funds for the church to extend its missionary work inside and outside the country. It is for this reason I propose such a portfolio, and am sure it would be a major factor in encouraging higher morals and increased financial support for the church. It would also stimulate the missionary activities of the church in Australia, not only in forward and developing areas, but also old ones, in bringing people back to the church in local communities, and I think this is necessary from the statistics I have quoted for national reservists. 
I would like to see both the Government and the Opposition give serious consideration to such a portfolio, and perhaps our Christian fellowship could give some leadership in this regard. To commence with I would like to see the Government set up a committee of inquiry to ascertain the needs of the churches and the schools in this field. I am also of the opinion that such a committee could investigate ways in which such a ministry could liaise closely with the Health, Social Services and Education Departments, and the Armed Forces. I feel it is up to the Government to provide leadership in these fields as we cannot continue to sit back and leave religious education entirely to the churches any more than we can leave education to the States. 
The increase in per capita grants in this Bill is urgently needed for Catholic schools in developing areas and also in my electorate where a number are having great difficulty in raising sufficient finance to meet teachers' salaries and general expenses associated in running their schools. Most of the parents make great sacrifices to keep their children at independent schools, and their main reason for doing so is that they want them to receive a well-balanced education. By that I mean not only mental, physical and emotional growth but spiritual growth as well. I could, if I wanted, speak of the early difficulties encountered by the Catholic schools in and around Dandenong. As a State member at the time I knew one particular school that was so overcrowded some  75  pupils were accommodated in a tin shed with a dirt floor. I reacted strongly to this as the State member and arranged for the State Minister of Education to visit the school and see what action could be taken. This was of course approximately  13  years ago - well before per capita grants were introduced. It was of course conditions such as these I have mentioned that brought about State grants in Victoria and soon after the Federal Government followed with assistance for libraries and science blocks and with per capita grants.  1  am pleased to say the introduction of these grants has been a major factor in assisting Catholic schools to expand and provide facilities comparable to those in the State schools. 
However, since the initial grants were made school costs have considerably risen. and I know these increased grants will bring much needed relief to many schools throughout my electorate. Even the Protestant schools are having difficulty and a well established school such as Hailebury College, which in recent years moved from Brighton to a new site at Keysborough, is dependant on per capita grants to keep school fees within a reasonable level, and I am sure this is the general position in most independent schools. These increased grants are welcome. I am pleased to support the Bill. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the 
House ofRepresentatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards  of  service to the public are made available  to  Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department,  to  assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and  to  what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 ask the Minister for Social Services a question. It was reported in the Sydney Morning Herald" on 28th April that a spokesman from the Anglican Church stated that some members of Parliament did not seem to be aware of the hardship of many people in the community. One case mentioned was that of an invalid with 5 daughters and 2 sons, whose income was $42 a week out of which he was paying $20 a week rent. Can the Minister inform the House of the social service benefits available to such a family? 
There always seems to be ample time to debate defence and foreign affairs in this Parliament but little opportunity to discuss foreign aid, at least, until the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  made a lengthy statement in the House this afternoon. The result is that there are few opportunities to put forward a case for greater financial assistance for Bangladesh. It is for this reason that I am raising this matter in the debate on the Appropriation Bill before the House. The Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement this afternoon mentioned something of the problems on the Indian sub-continent and the birth of Bangladesh. However, I was disappointed to hear in his speech that no further aid was proposed. The lack of opportunity to discuss the great crisis confronting the people of Bangladesh indicates the low priority of foreign aid. But surely what is happening or about to happen in Bangladesh warrants a full scale debate if we are genuinely interested in coming to the assistance of these impoverished people in a more sacrificial way. 
I am pleased to hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be visiting Bangladesh late this month for an onthespot inspection and discussions with Government officials. I am sure that the Minister will be greatly concerned to hear of the problems confronting these people, and I feel sure that on humanitarian grounds alone, he will strongly recommend greater assistance at a Government level. Australia has done little to fill the vacuum created by Britain's withdrawal from the South East Asian area. Most of these countries expect Australia to play a more dominant role in the area insofar as foreign aid is concerned. However, we have dismally failed as little leadership or initiative is being given in this field. I regret having continually to raise these matters. However, I will continue to do so until a programme is brought forward to give greater assistance to Bangladesh. 
I believe that the Government is influenced far too much by this magical figure of one per cent of our gross national product, which of course was never intended to be the beginning and end of overseas aid. It was only intended to be a percentage for which we might aim in normal times. However, I hasten to say that these are not normal times. Bangladesh is faced with the greatest catastrophe any one country has had to bear in the post war years. Thirty million people are homeless and more than half the people are totally dependent on relief supplies. Some 200,000 tons of food grains are needed monthly. In addition, 100,000 tons of high protein food, skim milk powder, drugs and medicine, etc., 100,000 tons of cement and 100,000 tons of building supplies, including corrugated iron sheeting, are needed monthly. 
As the Minister mentioned in his address, the Australian Government seized the initiative in being one of the first countries to recognise the new Government . of Bangladesh. However, this is about as far as it has gone. No additional allocation of funds has been made since the Government provided $2. 5m to assist the East Pakistan refugees in India last October. Of this amount only $500,000 was used. The balance, that is S2m, arrived several weeks too late to provide any worthwhile assistance whilst the refugees were in West Bengal. India's invasion of East Pakistan quickly brought an end to the refugee problem but not before 400,000 children died of malnutrition and neglect. During this crisis I repeatedly stated that India and the United Nations urgently needed cash, not goods, to provide immediate relief for the refugees. My pleas may just as well have come from  a  junior office boy in the foreign office for all the notice that was taken. I might add that I had good reasons for suggesting a cash donation of Si Om for the refugees, as I had spent some time visiting a number of refugee camps during the monsoon season last year. I also had on the spot discussions with  Mrs Ghandi  and the Government of Pakistan. They stressed that their most urgent need was cash with which to purchase goods locally. All I can say is that we did not answer the call as S2m was not even used. Whoever made the decision not to send cash made a wrong decision. It appears to me that the less said on this issue the better. 
For these reasons we can take little credit from the fact that we are currently spending $2m on assistance to Bangladesh as this $2m is the amount which was not spent while the refugees were in India. Although food and building materials are needed urgently and will continue to be so needed for the next year or so, a cash donation is the only way of assisting these people quickly. However, I repeat once again, not as a junior office boy but as the  president  of a voluntary agency which has been working in Bengal since 1964 and as a member of the Government, that cash is needed now, not next financial year, if we are to play our part in averting famine conditions in this country. 
Voluntary agencies are tuned in on the frequency of human disaster. I feel that we are failing in our duty unless we speak out strongly on such issues. One would have expected the Government to take some notice of my strong representations over the past 2 years. These views are shared by all voluntary agencies, which are extremely critical of the Government's piecemeal approach to the great human catastrophes that have ravaged Bangladesh in the past 18 months. I refer to the cyclone which devastated the off-shore islands and coastal regions of East Pakistan from the night of the 12th to 13th November 1970 and which left millions of people homeless and destroyed vast tracts of land. This was considered to be the greatest natural disaster of the century as 2 million people lost their lives. Yet the contribution from this Government to the greatest natural catastrophe of this century was $425,000. A few months later war. and genocide in East Pakistan resulted in 10 million refugees fleeing to the nearby Indian States - mainly West Bengal. The Government's contribution to the greatest movement of refugees in modern times was $3. 5m. 
Unfortunately for the people of Bangladesh we now have a third opportunity to come to their assistance, all within 18 months. I sincerely trust that this time we do not fail to answer the call as the whole country is destitute. My own society, For Those Who Have Less, has been sending gift consignments of livestock to the Asian countries for the past 8 years. Indeed, our early consignments played a major part in cross-breeding programmes in many of these countries. During this period we have consistently sought a close liaison with the Department of Foreign Affairs, all to no avail. This applies also to most other voluntary agencies. The Department fails to realise that many of these agencies have been carrying out pioneering work in many fields of overseas aid. As no government or agency alone can hope to meet more than a small percentage of the needs of these countries one would expect the Commonwealth Government to do everything possible to seek a closer liaison with these agencies during catastrophes such as those mentioned above. 
I believe the Department of Foreign Affairs is the only department that is reluctant to co-operate with voluntary agencies. However, it is prepared to work through private companies whose only interest in these countries is one of profit. There are 8 divisions in the Department of Foreign Affairs and whilst overseas aid continues to function as one of 3 sections in the Development Division it will continue to be a Cinderella section. The priority of overseas aid must be raised to the status of a separate division within the Department directly responsible to the Minister or alternatively there should be a separate Minister responsible for overseas aid. Surely our priorities in aid should be based more on need than on .political kudos. I cannot accept the Government's present approach to these great human problems. 
It should be borne in mind that the great voluntary effort contributed through voluntary agencies supplements Government assistance and one would expect that the 
Government would be doing everything possible to encourage voluntary participation. It should be remembered also that there is no substitute for voluntary effort, as the people who work through these agencies are dedicated and have a genuine interest in their work, which is given generally without fee or reward. Also, aid from voluntary agencies is channelled largely into the private sector where the need is greatest. This aspect is completely ignored by the Government. I do not think that the Government should ignore the following facts: Firstly, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has called for $565m to meet immediate relief needs in Dacca alone. Against this requirement Australia has, to date, provided nothing, if one takes into consideration the fact that the $2m currently being spent should have been spent on the refugees. Even if this is taken into consideration it represents only 0.3 per cent of the amount called for by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 
When one considers that the whole country has been ravaged by war and genocide, 3 million people have lost their lives and 30 million are homeless, little of the land has grown a crop for 12 months and the whole country is destitute, one can never accurately assess the needs of these people. However, having visited the country tor on-the-spot discussions, I know that thousands of millions of dollars are needed urgently for rehabilitation purposes if the country is to survive. On humanitarian grounds we cannot possibly ignore these facts. Once again, I urge the Government to provide an immediate cash grant of $10m while we still have time.  I  also urge the Government to grant a further $40m for rehabilitation work during the next financial year. I have suggested already that this amount be spent on a rehabilitation programme by Australia accepting a responsibility for a certain area. I can assure the Government that all voluntary agencies are greatly concerned that the current situation in Bangladesh will again erupt into civil war and violence unless large-scale assistance is provided quickly. 
The Republic of Bangladesh, which has been born out of war and genocide, has been admitted recently to the British Commonwealth of Nations as its 32nd member. For this reason I sincerely trust that the 
Republic will now benefit from the Commonwealth's multi-lateral and bilateral development schemes, as never before in the life of the Commonwealth has a member nation been in such urgent need of relief and developmental assistance. 1 believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should seize the initiative and call a special meeting of the Commonwealth at Foreign Minister level to discuss ways and means of providing greater assistance to Bangladesh. Surely membership of any organisation carries with it certain obligations. The more affluent and wealthy members of the Commonwealth are expected to play a more significant role in coming to the assistance of a weaker member. Australia, because of her close proximity to and special interest in the Indian Ocean, must provide leadership as we have always propounded the view - I heard this again put forward by the Minister for Foreign Affairs this afternoon - that we must maintain a presence in this region to ensure our security. I agree with this view. However, I am of the opinion that we can best ensure a lasting presence and peace in the Indian Ocean through economic aid. This is by far the best way to win friends and influence people in Asian countries. I trust that now that Bangladesh is a member nation we will seek a special meeting of the Commonwealth with a view to assisting our newest member as quickly as possible. 
Australia prides herself on being a peace loving country, ever ready to come to the assistance of people in times of need. Never before have so many people needed succour as the 30 million homeless people in Bangladesh. Repeated calls for assistance have been made by the United Nations and the Government of Bangladesh, so I sincerely trust a little more notice is taken of my many pleas for greater assistance. The Australian people, I am sure, are looking for strong moral leadership and expect the Government to come to the assistance of these people in a more generous way. If Australia is to continue to call herself a Christian community, we can no longer procrastinate while millions face famine conditions. Knowing these facts I again urge an immediate cash grant of $10m for relief work in Bangladesh. This request is supported by the executive of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. 
The purpose of this Bill, as indicated by the title, is to pay pensions and other benefits to certain persons after they cease to be resident in Australia. It will apply also to people who are Australian born and to those who have settled in Australia. It makes no distinction between new settlers who have taken out Australian citizenship and those who have not. 1 congratulate the Minister upon introducing this legislation, for I know he has been advocating portability of pensions for quite some time. 
The Act prevented many of our aged citizens, who had lived and worked hard in Australia for many years, from drawing pensions because they chose to live in another country. The Bill now before this Parliament will enable the Minister to enter into an agreement with other countries, and pensions will then be paid to Australian citizens who go to reside overseas, whether permanently or temporarily. In return, the participating country will be expected to pay pensions to their former residents now living in Australia. The agreements that the Australian Government enters into with other countries will differ in most cases, so no firm rule will apply. Each agreement will be drawn up in terms of mutual relationship existing between Australia and the participating country, with a view to obtaining the best possible benefit for Australian citizens. 
The agreement will cover age, invalid and widow's pensions, and the residential qualification for a portable pension will be 20 years after reaching the age of 16. Insofar as invalid pensions are concerned, there is no residential qualification provided the disease or injury was contracted or caused in Australia to a permanent resident. The same conditions will apply in the case of a widow's pension, when the husband's death occurs while permanently resident in Australia. Portability will also extend to allowances for pensioners' wives and to the special pension payable for 12 months after the death of a member of a married couple. 
An important aspect of the Bill is that the benefits shall be paid irrespective of whether the person is a naturalised Australian citizen. This is where it disagrees with the views of the Opposition. I know many new settlers in my electorate who have resided there for 15 or 20 years and who have not taken out Australian citizenship for certain reasons. I know these people to be hard working and loyal citizens who are a credit to the community in which they reside. Most of these migrants have come to Australia to seek a new life for their children, as they know that better opportunities exist in Australia, and even though they do not take out Australian citizenship, their children most certainly are Australians, as many have been born here. 
There are other reasons why migrants do not take out Australian citizenship. Many have small families or are single and they feel that one day they may wish to return to their country of birth. So, why should these people, many of whom have spent the best part of their working lives in Australia, not be able to take their pension entitlement with them? This is what this Bill proposes to do. The Bill recently introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would confine the benefits to Australian citizens and this would fail to help those very persons of whom I have just spoken. Such a measure would discriminate against many of our best citizens. As I said, these people are the parents of Australian children. This surely must be a defect in the Bill introduced by the Leader of the Opposition. Under the Bill introduced by the Minister for Social Services every effort will be made to secure the greatest possible reciprocal payment for migrants from other countries who choose to live in Australia. 
In some instances it is possible for migrants from other countries to bring their pensions or portion of their pensions with them. If the Government grants portability of Australian pensions without getting anything in return for our new settlers, as was proposed in the Bill introduced by the Leader of the Opposition, we would leave ourselves open to strong criticism. I am pleased to say that this is not the intention of the Government and the Minister for Social Services will do everything possible to negotiate the best reciprocal payments for new settlers. The Minister, in introducing this Bill, has given an unequivocal assurance that he will negotiate for the best possible agreement between this Government and other governments and I am quite confident that the Minister will press their case to breaking point if necessary. I must hasten to add that this is the least we can do for our new settlers, many of whom make great sacrifices to come here. Many say goodbye to their families and friends and travel thousands of miles to Australia to commence a new life and the least we can do is to negotiate the best possible deal for them. 
Whilst on the subject I think it is a great pity more is not done to make our new settlers welcome, particularly the non English-speaking migrants. Old Australians are a pretty casual lot and little effort is made to seek out new settlers and make them feel that they really belong. The best way to do this is to invite them into our homes for a friendly chat over a cup of tea or something stronger, if necessary. In the postwar period 2.9 million migrants have come to Australia to seek a new way of life and if it were not for the great work force they provide, we would have less of all those things we consider today to be so essential to our way of life. They have also contributed greatly to the cultural and spiritual life of Australia and I feel that a much greater effort should be made by old Australians to make them feel at home. If this were the case perhaps the approximate number of 20,000 migrants, which was referred to this afternoon, would not be returning to their countries of birth. 
To qualify for an Australian pension overseas, recipients must have resided - this point has been subject to a lot of debate this afternoon - for 20 years in Australia, which is less than the qualifying period of 25 years in Canada. This does not, of course, apply to invalid or widows' pensions. In the Bill presented by the Leader of the Opposition it was possible for a citizen from the United Kingdom or New Zealand to live in Australia for 12 months and qualify for the Australian pension on the grounds of age or as an invalid or widow and return to live abroad for the rest of his or her life at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. Such a proposition is absurd. 
Whilst on the subject of portability I want to mention one or two anomalies that apply to elderly migrants who come to Australia from the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. As the Channel Islands have no reciprocal agreement with Britain it means that migrants from these islands do not qualify for Australian pensions on arrival. I recently had a case of a widow,  Mrs Elsie  Le Mesurier of Noble Park, who came to Australia last year to live with her only son,  Mr Reg  Le Mesurier. She was very concerned to learn on arrival that she did not qualify for a supplement to her Channel Islands pension, as that country was not included in the United KingdomAustralia reciprocal agreement. In effect, it means that  Mrs Le  Mesurier's residence in the Channel Islands cannot be treated as residence in Australia, as applies with all other citizens migrating to Australia from the United Kingdom or New Zealand. She will have to complete 10 years continuous residence in Australia before she qualifies for an age pension, or 5 years for a widow's pension. 
However, it is doubtful whether  Mrs Le  Mesurier will ever receive an Australian pension unless the Act is amended, as she is over 80 years of age. I know there are other elderly migrants who come to Australia to live with a son or daughter, and who do not qualify for an Australian pension until they have resided here for 10 years, lt is quite obvious that anyone over 80 years of age does not come to Australia just, to receive an Australian pension and then return to his or her country of birth. I would therefore like the Minister to take this matter up with his colleague, the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  and give consideration to amending the Act with a view to paying the Australian pension to all migrants over 80 years of age, after serving a qualifying period of 6 months, as applies to residents from the United Kingdom and New Zealand. At present many of these aged people are a great financial burden on their families because they cannot obtain fringe benefits under the pension scheme. The Act should be amended so that they may qualify for a Commonwealth pension. I would like the Minister to have a good look at the case I have presented. 
Finally, I repeat that the Bill before the House is not confined to migrants only - I have not heard this mentioned this afternoon - as Australian born citizens also will bc able to draw their pensions whilst living overseas. As previously mentioned, the new pensions will apply to all migrants, whether naturalised or not. This legislation is long overdue and I am sure it will be welcomed by all Australian citizens. I wish it a speedy passage through the House. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Whilst he has indicated that new scales of taxation will be implemented from 1st September, can he inform the House when the new deductions will actually be made from pay packets? Secondly, what effects does he expect will flow from this shift of funds into the taxpayer's pocket? 
There is no doubt that this Budget has been framed to assist those in greatest need. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on introducing one of the most popular social service welfare Budgets post-war. In doing so, I direct my remarks to the field of social services in which some very important decisions affecting the welfare of many of our best aged citizens have been made. In saying this, I am not unmindful of the very big part played by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in strongly pressing for increased benefits, particularly insofar as the abolition of the means test is concerned. At times during the negotiations he pressed his case almost to breaking point, and in his endeavours he had the support of the Government Members Social Services Committee. The decision to abolish the means test over the next 3 years and to set up a committee to investigate the introduction of a national superannuation scheme is a significant and historic decision. Such a scheme has been contemplated by successive governments over a very long period of time. We know that there are many injustices in the present system. Unfortunately these affect many of our best aged citizens, many of whom regard their life savings as an encumbrance at the present lime. 
The introduction of a national superannuation scheme would result in the phasing out of the existing age pension scheme and hence bring an end to the means test which many people regard as objectionable. To commence with it is necessary to remove the means test on all persons over 65 years of age because in its present form the means test is an impediment to any reasonable plan of national superannuation. lt is also inequitable because it deprives people of the benefit of their initiative and planning, lt discourages self-help and self-reliance and it debars people from taking casual or part time work. This could prove detrimental to their physical and mental well-being. Surely our aged citizens should not be denied the right to work if they so desire. However, with the present means test they are prevented from so doing. It should be remembered also that the age pension is one of the few social benefits which is subject to the means test. Health benefits, nursing benefits and most repatriation benefits are free of both the means test and income tax. In other words, the means test is regressive as the rich receive greater benefits through taxation concessions. 
Pending the removal of the means test considerable concessions have been made in this Budget. At the present time pensions taper off once a single pensioner earns more than $10 a week and a married couple more than $17 a week. However, under the new proposals introduced by the Treasurer the tapering off will not occur until a single pensioner earns more than $20 a week and a .married couple more than $34.50 a week. This will considerably assist single pensioners as it means that they can have an income of $40 before the taper comes into effect, while a married couple can have an income of $69. Eligibility for part pension will not cease until the income reaches 3 times the pension, that is, $60 a week for a single person and $103.50 for married couples. When we consider that the average earnings are about $96 a week and that the pension is not taxable, these increased benefits are most generous. As a result of the Budget considerable benefits will now become available to those drawing superannuation and to those receiving annuities. These payments have in the past been treated as income ' under the means test. Under the new proposals in the Budget, superannuation and annuities which are payable for life will be converted to a property equivalent which will be taken into account along with any other property, in applying the means test. In most cases this would work to the pensioner's advantage, but in particular cases where it did not the change would not apply. 
A new benefit announced in the Budget, and one I have consistently advocated, will be paid to a person who accepts responsibility for an aged relative. I know of many instances where a son or daughter has been prevented from marrying because he or she has accepted the responsibility of looking after parents. Surely people should be encouraged to look after their parents. I have said often that families should accept a greater responsibility for their aged parents. If they are not prepared to make some sacrifice to help them they can hardly expect others to do so. However, there seems to be some tendency these days for young people to hand this responsibility to the Government. This course should never be contemplated as children can never repay their parents for the care and attention they have received over the years. If we have no respect for our parents and are not prepared to make some genuine effort to assist them in their old age there is little chance of the golden rule really working. A home for old people is certainly no substitute for the love aud care of one's family and every effort should be made by young people to accept a greater responsibility for their aged parents. 
It is for this reason that I am so pleased to see that a special benefit of $14 a week will be paid to those people who look after an aged relative. I know there are a number of people who make a considerable sacrifice to do so and they should receive every encouragement from the Government. To all those who now become eligible for these special benefits I say that these entitlements are well deserved and I extend my sincere thanks to them for providing the necessary love and care that their parents so richly deserve in old age. This benefit will, of course, encourage others to accept a greater responsibility for an aged relative and it will be a big factor in keeping many aged persons out of the nursing homes. More than half of these people would not be in homes if their families accepted a greater responsibility and if more hostels and adequate home care services were available. 
I wish to single out for special mention a number of other important measures contained in the Budget. The first one is the supplementary rent assistance which has been raised from $2 to $4 a week. This subsidy is paid to single pensioners living alone and paying rent. Approximately 120,000 people come into this category. I am pleased to see that their supplementary allowance has been increased to $4. Many of these single pensioners living alone are paying between $10 and $12 a week and they are the ones in greatest need. I am glad that this additional benefit will be paid. For the first time, under this Budget a rent allowance will be paid to married couples. This is most welcome. This increased benefit really means that a single pensioner living alone and paying rent will receive an increase of $3.75 under the Budget and I do not think this is generally understood by the public. Whilst speaking of pensioners I want to say that the Government also will introduce a nursing home benefit for hospital insurance contributors. However, holders of pensioner medical service cards will receive the benefit without having to join a hospital benefit fund. This will give pensioners more security in old age, as nursing home costs will be met and there will be $6 left over to provide the few personal belongings a pensioner may need. These additional nursing home benefits will cost $9.1m this year and $21.9m in a full year. Of course, they are in addition to the $24.50 a week for ordinary care patients and $45.50 a week for intensive care patients. The additional benefits will provide greater financial protection against the increasing costs in nursing homes. This will ease considerably the burden on relatives who have had to bridge the difference between Commonwealth subsidies and nursing home costs. I know that the increased benefits will be welcomed by many people. 
I now briefly mention home savings grants. The increases in this area will greatly assist many young married couples buying their first home. The maximum value of a home which may attract a grant will be increased from $17,500 to $22,500. The maximum grant also will be increased from $500 on savings of $1,500 to $750 on savings of $2,250, with an appropriate increase in the limit on the amount qualifying as savings. An important concession in regard to these increased benefits is that they will be retrospective to 15th August. This will be welcomed by all those who are eligible. 
I have confined my remarks to social services. To those who say that the Government should be providing more I point out that in this Budget, which authorises the expenditure of SI 0,078m, approximately 32, 500m is being spent on social services and repatriation, which works out at about 25c in every dollar. I must say that this is a most generous proportion. Under the present programme we will always need a continuing increase in funds for social services. However, perhaps sometime in the early life of the next Government a committee should be set up to investigate the distribution of funds already made available. I repeat that $2,500m is a large sum of money. It is the second largest item of expenditure in the Budget. It is larger than the amount being spent by the Commonwealth and States on education. It appears to me that such a large sum of money should be adequate to eliminate most pockets of need in the community. It is with this thought in mind that I suggest to the Minister that consideration should be given to setting up a committee to look into this matter. Those of us who say that more money should be spent on social services should perhaps indicate where the money will come from. Should we reduce grants to the States for education, health, housing and other services, or should we raise taxes? I repeat that 25c in every dollar is a most generous contribution. I believe that it is the highest percentage ever allocated to social services by any government since Federation. For these reasons the amendment should be rejected. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Services been drawn to requests by church authorities for an inquiry into social conditions wider in scope than the approved inquiry into poverty by Professor Henderson? Does the Minister intend to make any recommendations in relation to these requests? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is reported that the United Nations has estimated that $ 1,200m is still needed for rehabilitation purposes in Bangladesh. This has been highlighted by the large number of petitions being presented in this Parliament each day. To date Australia's contribution is 0.3 per cent of the amount mentioned. As millions of people are still homeless- 
I desire to ask the Minister for Social Services a question. I refer to the Government's announcement that the principle of make-up pay would be accepted for Commonwealth employees' compensation purposes. I ask the Minister whether the implementation of this will require new legislation and, if so, when is it proposed to bring that legislation into the House? 
I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  for his statement on overseas aid and the booklet that honourable members have received giving the particulars of the Government's foreign aid policies. It is a well presented document containing a great deal of information and will be welcomed by most people interested in overseas aid. The Government's economic assistance to New Guinea and Indonesia is commendable and praiseworthy, as much has been achieved in those countries in recent years with rehabilitation programmes. However, in emergencies we fail badly, and I wish to quote 1 or 2 instances with which I have had first hand experience. The first is the great cyclone which ravaged the off-shore islands and coastal regions of East Pakistan on the night of 12th and 13th November 1970. I have been back to those islands twice since that cyclone, which is now claimed to be, the greatest natural catastrophe this century and there is no doubt about that. Shortly after the cyclone I saw just what did happen. To the victims of the greatest natural catastrophe this century all we provided was $425,000. 
This time last year, of course, we had the refugee problem in India, mainly in West Bengal. The Government provided $5,500,000, but of course $2m of that was not used because India's invasion of East Pakistan quickly brought an end to the refugee problem. Even though repeated calls were made by many members in this House, by me in particular, to send cash and not food aid, that money was not spent. Had cash been sent I am sure that many of the refugees in the camps could have been saved. There are still some 20 million people homeless in Bangladesh and large scale assistance is urgently needed to avert famine conditions at the present time. For almost 2 years I have been endeavouring to get the Government interested in a rehabilitation programme. However it has shown little interest to date. 
When I was in Bangladesh earlier this year I spoke to Sheik Mujibur Rahman. He was interested in the Government building fifty 100-bed hospitals in various centres throughout the country. Again he wanted the Government to undertake programmes to rehabilitate the devastated area of land to get it back into production. He wanted the Government to provide irrigation and build roads and schools. This is the sort of programme in which the Government should be engaged. It should be engaged in construction work. Even though strong representations have been made by other people and myself, we certainly have had little influence to date. At the present time the Government's assistance to Bangladesh is little different from that of a voluntary agency - and I might say a small one at that. The situation in Bangladesh is still one of grave concern. This is the reason why most voluntary agencies are directing their major efforts in this region. For example, the. Christian Organisation for Relief and Rehabilitation has undertaken a $30m programme for rehabilitation in Bangladesh. The World Council of Churches last July spent $8m of a $13m programme. CARE and Oxfam, of course, have spent millions in recent months, and the Australian voluntary agencies have taken up special programmes running into millions of dollars. 
The Minister in his statement said that the Government's aid programme was motivated on humanitarian grounds. I would just like to point out that $4m or even $6m is certainly not a sacrificial contribution when 20 million people are homeless. What is the Government doing in Bangladesh: The Minister in reply to a question I asked in Parliament 2 weeks ago stated that we are providing food aid, galvanised iron sheeting and 4-wheel drive trucks, and that 3 aircraft are under charter to carry relief supplies. I know assistance has been provided in other directions. This sounds impressive. However it is not an amount of which we can fee) proud when it is compared with the total area of need. I say again that there must be a starting point. Our aid must be compared with something, otherwise it is meaningless and has no beginning. The United Nations has stated that $ 1,200m is still needed for rehabilitation work in 
Bangladesh. 1 say again that any aid programme must be compared with the overall area of need. Otherwise the aid provided is only a statistic and is not therefore being provided on humanitarian grounds. The history of humanitarian work is long and proud, rich and diverse. It develops an individual and community conscience, together with a desire to eliminate all forms of suffering, to spread knowledge and to bring about social justice and international peace. These precious needs must always remain the basic principles of any humanitarian motive. 
The number of people in urgent need throughout Asian countries continues to increase each year. In other words the gap widens because the total area of need is unknown. Today we have the resources and technical knowhow to come to grips with many of these great human problems. However, we fail to do so because we are not tuned in on the frequency of need. To overcome the problems of hunger, poverty and neglect in those countries I would like to see the Government give consideration to setting up an advisory council on development aid, membership of which would come from voluntary agencies, churches, universities, banks, youth organisations and so on, as well as from government nominees. Such a council could determine our aid programmes and priorities. With poverty in the world continuing to rise at an alarming rate, the time has now arrived for the Government to seek a much closer liaison with voluntary agencies, many of which have had many years of experience in aid programmes. 
While the Government continues to base its aid programme on a limited area of need it becomes even more important that a full utilisation be obtained of funds that are available. For this reason I again suggest as a beginning that 10 per cent of any increase in Colombo Plan funds should be channelled through voluntary agencies, because in many instances these funds would be far better utilised and would reach the areas of greatest need, that is, the villages. I believe that we must do far more to raise the priority of aid in Australia and for this result to be achieved a much closer working liaison must be developed between the Government and voluntary agencies. I say that because it is a 
Government responsibility to help to stimulate a greater interest in the private sector, as this in turn supplements Government aid. 
Another matter I wish to raise is that in an emergency the Government can authorise the expenditure of only $25,000 without calling the Cabinet together. This is a much smaller figure than most voluntary agencies in Australia can allocate in an emergency. I feel that the figure should be at least $100,000, and that after the Prime Minister has consulted the Treasurer and Minister for Foreign Affairs he should have the power to allocate up to Sim in times of emergency situations such as in 1970 when a cyclone struck East Pakistan. I repeat that this is not a large amount of aid in a programme of $220m and I trust that some consideration will be given to these proposals. 
I desire to ask the Minister for Social Services a question. What increase has there been in the number of applications for pensions since the Social Services Act 1972 came into operation? Has the publicity campaign contributed towards this increase, and was this campaign justified? 
