I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether there is deep concern in the television and associated electronic industries concerning the Government's very indefinite proposals regarding the timing of the introduction of colour television in Australia. Does the industry regard the promised  18  months notice as quite inadequate for the necessary re-equipping and training of staff that will be involved? Can the Minister now satisfy, even in some tentative way, the interests of investors, manufacturers and the viewing public by naming an approximate date when this amenity will be introduced, or must they all remain in the dark for some further indefinite period? 
I join with the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  in paying tribute to all those organisations who serve meals on wheels throughout the Commonwealth. I speak also on behalf of the organisations in the Kogarah, Hurstville and Rockdale municipalities which carry out such a magnificent service in their local community. The Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill has 3 import ant features. The first is its purpose. As stated in the Bill, its purpose is to assist in the establishment, expansion, improvement and maintenance of delivered meal services. Its purpose might be paraphrased by saying that its aim is to keep aged and invalid people in their own homes rather than in institutions. The Bill has no means test attached to it and will have wider application for that reason. 
After looking at the purpose of the Bill, let us turn to .what it provides. It provides a Commonwealth subsidy of 10c per meal provided by an approved organisation in the preceding year. In other words it relates back to what meals were provided in the year before. On that basis . a subsidy of . 1 0c a meal is paid to the . organisation. The approved or eligible organisations include non-profit religious organisations, charitable or benevolent organisations, organisations of former members of the Defence Forces and local government bodies. The honourable member . for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has already indicated that the Opposition supports the Bill, but just as he did, so do 1 indicate, my support with distinct reservations. Those reservations, of course, do not in any way reflect upon the good people, organisations, individuals and councils which have already provided this humane service to many of our aged and invalid people. 
My first observation . on the Bill is that its immediate purpose, is to give most help to organisations .that are already in existence. This is its purpose. One would have imagined that such a. Bill might have sought out places and locations where service was not being provided. But this Bill helps those who are already helping themselves. That is fair enough, as I will indicate in broader terms, but it gives little or no help to those areas where no help is available. The second question I asked myself in these observations was: What is -the basis of this Bill? One might have come, to expect from this Government by now that when it brings down social welfare legislation of this kind it would present to the Parliament some kind of social survey of the community indicating the basis - of need, where it is located and what kind of methods are going to be used to meet the need. No such social survey is presented to the Parliament. The most flimsy piece, ot material in terms of the States which provide Meals on Wheels is all that I can see in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  How different is this approach from that which obtained in Great Britain where in the late 1950s they carried out a substantial survey to which I will make later reference. 
In his speech the Minister said that about 2 million meals were supplied last year. On his calculations - and I do not know what evidence there is for these or on what basis they were made - his advisers estimate that the requirement will be something of the order of 5 million meals a year. In the few statistics that he provided he does indicate how uneven is the present distribution in terms of States. Of course, we have nothing like a breakup of States to indicate what meal distribution occurs within the States.  His  figures show that in South Australia, for instance, 322 meals per 1,000 of population are provided. On the other hand Queensland provides only 111 meals per 1,000 of population each year. One would have imagined that in a piece of welfare legislation of this kind we would have been setting out in some way to remedy the deficiencies, or the most obvious deficiencies, that exist. There ought to have been some effort to remedy the position in Queensland where the service is by no means as advanced as it is in South Australia. 
We have no indication in the Ministers speech of how the measures that are proposed are going to remedy the observable deficiencies in the various States. What the Bill seems to do is to endorse the action of those States and localities that are already making provision for Meals on Wheels in their particular communities. One could ask on what basis - certainly none is advanced by the Minister - was it decided to provide a 10c subsidy per meal. Why 10c? Why not 20c or 30c? On what basis was this subsidy calculated? The only intimation that one can get is that it represents roughly one-third of the usual charge made to the elderly or invalid person for the meal provided. No indication is given that capital costs are in any way taken into account - the cost of setting up a kitchen and the provision of all the utensils involved. The 10c per meal subsidy seems so arbitrary. This seems to be so commonplace with Government provisions. There does not seem to be any basis of survey of needs and of the estimated measures that will be required to meet those needs. So we get this ad hoc decision of the Government to provide about $200,000 to be spread over the whole continent of Australia. This subsidy in some sort of way is to help build up the deficiency which even the Minister indicates is of the order of 3 million meals a year. 
This compels me to say. that the provision is inequitable and inefficient. It is inequitable in much the same way as are so many other subsidy schemes provided by the Government. One needs only to cast one's mind back to such things as municipal rate concessions for pensioners. If the local government body is prepared to provide relief from rates for pensioners governments will supply a subsidy to the body concerned. If the council or shire does not provide any relief to the pensioner, neither do governments. This is a most inequitable system. I am very conscious, even in my own locality, that some councils are far more generous than are other councils regarding the pensioners to whom;, they allow relief. The same thing goes on in respect of school libraries and school assembly halls. Those communities that are able to help themselves receive aid from the Government. The same is true of dairy subsidies. Most of the dairy subsidies, as I understand them, do not go to the farmers, most needing help - the marginal farmers- but to the wealthy farmers along the Murray Valley. The same deficiency exists in  respect  of taxation. Those people who can spend a lot on the education of their children or on the health of their children are the ones who attract government subsidies. 
We say that this is an inequitable system and, what is more, an inefficient system in helping those people who are most in need of help. It is obvious, that in this system the poor can easily miss out. It is our strong suspicion that many of those people who most need assistance will not get it under this Bill unless, of course, local councils can be induced to come,into the field and to provide assistance. This again limits the effectiveness of the provision. If we have to rely on local councils we will get some councils which are prepared to accept the responsibility and others which say that they are so sorely pressed in meeting community needs that they are in no position to provide the assistance that will attract the Government subsidy. 
Earlier I referred to research that had been done in England. I was referring to the Meals on Wheels for Old People' research study that was carried out in England, Scotland and Wales by the Government Social Survey on behalf of the National Corporation for the Care of Old People. Some of the observations in the report are worth noting. In the foreword to the research report the following appears: 
The value of any service of this kind is that it should be available to all who need it and the Governors sincerely hope that it will eventually be possible for a truly comprehensive meals service to be provided for old people. As this report makes clear, many different voluntary committees have shown the way, but probably they themselves would be among the first to say that there is still not enough done. The scale on which this service should be provided to meet all needs is beyond the scope of voluntary finances and their resources of manpower: And it is clear that the time has come when local authorities, in spite of the ever increasing demands on them, should become responsible for this important service. 
This was an acknowledgement in England about 12 years ago that voluntary organisations could not and should not be expected to provide the service for all the people who needed it. 
The recommendation in that report is that local government bodies in England should come to the rescue in this matter. We are all aware of the fact that local government bodies in England have much more authority and much greater responsibilities than do local government authorities in Australia. In England, local government bodies have far greater access to financial resources in order to carry out the . tasks entrusted to them. Already, local government bodies in Australia are. overloaded wilh social responsibilities offloaded on to them because of lack of responsibility on the part of our Federal Government. 
This survey went on to look at the age composition of those areas that were served by Meals on Wheels as against other areas not served by Meals on Wheels. The report came up with the same kind of conclusion that the Minister for Social Services himself reached. That is that there were no distinct differences in the age composition of the two areas. The areas that were not receiving a Meals on Wheels service had just as many old people living in them as did the areas that were receiving a Meals on Wheels service. My . suspicion is that this would truly be found .to be the situation in Australia also. 
The survey considered also the proportion of persons suffering immobility, particularly in the ability to go to shops, collect their own food and be able to come home and cook it. The survey reached much the same kind of conclusion as it reached on age composition in that there were no fewer people who were immobile in the areas that were not being served by Meals on Wheels than there were in areas being served by Meals on Wheels. 
So the survey came to the third and what turned out to be the critical criterion in this whole business. -That was the socioeconomic status of the area and how it seemed to affect the provision of Meals on Wheels. Referring to research in the metropolitan boroughs of London, the report records the conclusion op page 63 that: 
It will be seen that apart from the very poorest boroughs the number of recipients per 1,000 population rises as the economic status of the borough rises. 
In other words, the more, well off socioeconomically an area was, the more likely that area was to have a Meals on Wheels service, the one exception being the poorest boroughs. The report went on: 
This same pattern emerges, .when the whole of the London area is examined, which accounts for just over 21% of all recipients, and although it is not so clear cut for other regions, there is a general tendency for this to hold good for all standard regions of England and Wales. 
I think that one's own casual observations in this country would tend to support the same kind of conclusion. Typical middle class areas - and I suppose that my own electorate can be so categorised - tend to take up this responsibility or to bear this responsibility more so than do poorer areas. One other important conclusion of this study was that a much higher proportion of single older people in the lowest income groups are not getting this Meals on Wheels service. This could well be the case in the poorer areas of Sydney, Melbourne and other capital cities.- It is single people living by themselves who seem to have less access to Meals on Wheels services than do other people. 
I summarise my comments at -this stage by saying - and I think that this is the view of the Australian Labor Party - that the whole provision endorses Our suspicion and belief that the subsidy principle is inadequate, inequitable and inefficient in dealing with all those needing help. Something more than this must be done. Secondly, we must decry the absence of any systematic survey of the whole community to determine the nature and extent of the needs of the aged and the infirm. This kind of ad hoc decision - not doing it by any kind of systematic survey - is just not good enough. I will refer later to how some of the legislation introduced last year by the Government in relation to aged people falls down because not enough homework was done on the matter. The third comment that I make by way of summary is that the programme is piecemeal and fragmentary. I will elaborate on that later. 
Before 1 leave this British survey, I shall refer to one other question that was raised. Many old and infirm people were asked what their attitude was to the provision of cheaper meals such as were being provided to some people in their homes. They were asked what they thought of the provision of these cheaper meals at what they called community centres but what we often call, I think, senior citizens centres. The British survey found that 95% of old people - these people were defined in the research in much the same way as we define them; that is, as being men over 65 years of age and women over 60 years of age - thought that it was a good idea; 65% said that they personally would gladly use such a service. 
Honourable members would have noticed that there is some difference in the figures. Whilst 95% thought that it was a good idea, only 65% said that they personally would be prepared to use it. The ones who were not prepared to use it - and the number of men and women was equally divided approximately between the two sexes - gave reasons of independence, pride, shyness or, in some cases, physical disabilities. These were the reasons why they were unable to visit such organisations. 
At this stage, I pose this question to the Minister for Social Services: Does this Bill provide a subsidy for meals served in senior citizens centres or community centres? I am glad to see the Minister answer affirmatively to my question by nodding his head. The Bill refers to the delivery of meals at the homes of specific persons or at other places at which it is convenient for those persons to consume them. 1 am glad to have the Minister's confirmation that this does in fact mean that if people like to stop for such meals in senior citizens centres or other such places these meals will attract the subsidy. This is a good thing. Welfare workers attached to Meals on Wheels services in my own area have indicated to me that they would be strongly in support of the provision of meals at such centres. They believe that the provision of such meals at such centres would in fact cut down on the demand for meals being provided in the homes of these people. So they too will be delighted, I am sure, to know that this will be possible. 
Let me mention one other thing while I am talking about what local people say about this scheme. People who are involved in this business of providing Meals on Wheels, particularly welfare officers who are employed by such services, feel that a lot more should be done to advertise the existence of Meals on Wheels services, not only to attract good civic minded people to come and help in the provision of such meals but also to bring this service to the notice of a great many more people. At the present moment the services of which I am aware are provided solely, I believe, on the recommendation of a doctor. The doctor recommends that certain people should be supplied with a Meals on Wheels service. If these people did not need to meet this requirement, and the meals were served in some sort of central community centre, perhaps more of these people might benefit by this service. 
The point was made to me also by these liaison officers and welfare officers that provision ought to be made for a good deal more communication and discussion between welfare officers and the like from different areas. Admittedly, a central body exists in New South Wales. It was called the Old Peoples Welfare Council. I think that it has a new name now. The welfare officers do not feel that this is sufficient. As the extent of this service apparently will build up, they believe that there ought to be more opportunity for discussion and liaison between welfare officers so that they might get ideas about how each of them runs his or her service, how the services are financed and how volunteers are attracted to carry out the work. 
One other piece of advice which they have given and which I hand on,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  through you to the Minister is that a need exists for a lot more integration of and co-ordination between these various domiciliary services. The complaint is made that the Meals on Wheels services operate almost without any contact wilh, for example, the home nursing service. One officer comes in then goes out and another comes in. The two services never get much opportunity of getting together and discussing the cases they are serving. 
When speaking about this business of coordination and integration I certainly recommend to the House the remarkable service provided by the Royal Newcastle Hospital. Just recently the honourable members for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  and myself, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party's welfare committee, went to Newcastle to have a look at the scheme operating there. It is a marvelous example of an integrated coordinated service to tend the people, lt has the same objective announced by the Minister for Social Services when introducing this Bill; that is, to help old and infirm people to remain in their own community amongst their own people. But the service at Newcastle is a vastly extended one in comparison with anything that the Government has contemplated to this time. It runs to the provision of district nurses wilh cars at their disposal, social workers, - a full time physician specialising in disorders ' of the aged - a geriatrician, in other words - 1.0 housekeepers to go into the homes and to help these people requiring that sort of assistance and an ambulance and voluntary transport of day patients to take them to the excellent William Lyne unit at the Royal Newcastle Hospital if this is desired. If people are so disabled that they are not able to look after themselves they can be brought into either the general hospital or this special unit where there is available all these special services, operating not in isolation but in joint consultation, and in consultation with the relatives of the aged or infirm person. 
This is a full blooded scheme, a coordinated scheme, providing a battery of expert help with the objective of helping the aged or infirm persons to get back to a position of self reliance- so that they can get out of bed, cook for themselves, wash themselves and go through the whole gamut of responsibilities likely to be imposed on aged persons. It provides speech therapists for people who, for instance, suffer a stroke, lt provides an occupational therapist to give help aimed at restoring people to the position where they are able to earn their own living, if that is the objective. 
These manifold specialist services are integrated and work together to help the aged or infirm persons regain the position of self reliance to which I referred. According to the report from this unit they find that this expert service costs a fraction of what it costs to maintain these people in institutional hospitals where, they are kept without any very . decided objective of restoring them to- a position of independence. AH honourable members know how hard it is to get old people into a general hospital. They are just not' acceptable. We cannot blame the hospitals because beds are scarce and care costs a lot. Therefore general hospitals are not able to maintain these people. They certainly cannot be accommodated for any length of time in nursing homes without a good deal of private subsidy. Single aged and infirm people who rely on a pension and the $2 a day subsidy attract a total of 329. Even if they get the rent allowance to bring them up to $31, I ask any honourable member whether he can find in his area a nursing home providing this kind of service for $31 a week. In my area the commonplace fee is $40 and upwards. This means that private sources have to find a subsidy to maintain these people in such places. 1 hope that the Government will get around to a much fuller programme than this piecemeal fragmentary one. It is better than nothing and the Opposition accepts it. We applaud what has been done. However we would rather see a much more systematic approach adopted, not a fragmentary one such as we have. We would like a much more comprehensive service to be provided for these, people 
I indicated before that the Government had gone off half-cocked on many of these welfare schemes. Last year it brought in and had enacted the States Grants (Home Care) Act of 1969 by which it provided home care services. The Commonwealth offered a 50% subsidy for services that cared for people in their own homes, a subsidy towards the building and extension of senior citizens centres, provision of welfare officers to be employed at such centres, the provision of para-medical services for old people, such as chiropody services, occupational therapy, physiotherapy and speech therapy. All these things sounded so good, I suppose, when they were introduced but to my knowledge - and I speak subject to correction - most of these services have not come into existence for the simple reason that State government bodies have been unable or unwilling to participate with the Commonwealth in providing them. A battery of these services were provided for in Bills last year but I understand that most of them are not operative because insufficient States are participating. 
All these things do not help the aged people in the more fundamental ways, such as pension rates. They still have to get by on inadequate pensions at a time when prices and costs are going up. In many cases they are left in a rather desperate position. I hope that the Government will face up to this problem in a much more fundamental way than it has done in the past. I hope that this Bill represents the last of these fragmentary approaches and that there will be a much more comprehensive service. I hope the Government recognises that subsidisation is not an efficient or equitable way of meeting the problem. Finally I hope that the Government will come down with a programme which will help people to live in their homes. This includes the provision of a much more generous pension than they now attract. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What provision does each of the States make for railway fare concessions for (a) various types of social service and repatriation pensioners and (b) railway employees and retired employees. 
Does the Commonwealth grant concessions in respect of its railways for each of these groups; if not, why not. 
Will he seek agreement between the various States and the Commonwealth to provide interstate railway fare concessions for each of these groups. 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister in his capacity both as Prime Minister and as Acting Treasurer. Is the Commonwealth aware of the serious financial difficulties and vastly increased indebtedness of local government all over Australia? Are heavy and inequitable burdens being imposed on ratepayers to meet the greatly increased responsibilities loaded onto local government? In recent and current Commonwealth-State financial negotiations has the Commonwealth indicated any willingness to take over any substantial part of local government debt and to provide a share of interest free revenue for capital works, as I understand was promised to the States? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What (a) Commonwealth and (b) State funds have been made available for educational research in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) government sponsored and (b) privately sponsored students in teacher education were admitted to each (i) teachers college (ii) college of advanced education and (iii) university in Australia for each of the years 1969 and 1970. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many persons who have been awarded Commonwealth (a) university and (b) advanced education scholarships in each of the various States in each of the years for which records are available have gained the awards after repeating the last year or form of their secondary school studies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What concessions have been leased to Olims and their subsidiaries at each airport in Australia. 
What conditions are imposed in respect of leases, particularly those affecting prices to be charged for goods and services. 
I have three main objection to this Bill. Firstly, it should bc heartily challenged because of its gross unfairness and injustice in charging the less well off sections of the community somewhat more than the wealthier sections for their health benefits. Secondly, the Bill should be opposed because it retains so much of the completely discredited and decrepit so-called Liberal-Country Party national health scheme that has been operating for the last 18 years. This has been a scheme characterised by gross greed in many cases, inefficiency, clumsiness and scandalous waste at the expense of the community's health. Thirdly, the Bill should be strongly criticised because of the hastiness and atmosphere of bitter disagreement surrounding its preparation, lt is riddled with uncertainty and lack of clear definite principles and machinery of operation. Scattered right through the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and in his previous statement are vague promises that something is 'being reviewed', 'actively con.sidered' or will be the subject of future regulations when the Government can complete its negotiations and make up its mind. 
I say that it is an insult to this House that the Minister for Health should present to it such a half-baked, ill-considered and thoroughly doubtful measure. Inevitably, one returns to the conviction, as did the majority of electors at the last election, that Labor's scheme of universal insurance based on capacity to pay and operated by an efficient national health insurance commission is far preferable to the scheme put forward by the Government. 
First, let us look at the regressive features of the Government's scheme. The first matter to which I look is the item on contribution rates. In respect of medical benefits there is to be one flat rate for medical insurance contributions in each State. This means that, apart from those who will be exempted by subsidised contributions, everybody - rich and poor alike - will have to pay a higher contribution for medical insurance. Some of my colleagues have made the point quite clearly that in fact the situation is worse than this. 
The net cost of medical insurance will be greater to the poorer section than it will be to the wealthy section of our community for the simple reason that in regard to net cost after taxation less will be paid by the wealthier people. They will get more in tax rebates than will the poorer contributors paying lower rates of tax. Not only will that be the case but also the fees that will be paid actually by a patient to a doctor or to a hospital for that matter will attract a greater rebate in the case of the wealthier section of the community than will come to the less wealthy. 
I turn now to the contributions in respect of medical fees. I wish to point out the position in New South Wales. Coming from New South Wales, I suppose that I am entitled to some priority of interest in that respect. In New South Wales, medical contribution fees are to rise by 15c a week, from 60c to 75c a week in respect of families. This is a 25% increase in medical insurance fees. The fees in other States, I note, are to rise from about 50c to 66c a week. In each case this will represent an increase of no more than 10c a week. I am not begrudging other States their lower rates of contribution. I just wonder why people in New South Wales are to be fleeced under this scheme by so much more than their fellows in the other States. 
I asked about this. I tried to find out whether doctors employed by the Commonwealth received a higher rate of remuneration because they are in New South Wales than if they were in other States. I am afraid that I was not able to get a completely adequate reply in the research that 1 made in that regard, but I suspect that the answer is that it is not so. Doctors, whether they be medical officers employed by the Repatriation Department, the Department of Social Services or any other Government department, probably receive the same pay in New South Wales as they do in other States. So I wonder why this scheme is to confirm an arrangement whereby New South Wales people pay more to their doctors than do people in comparable States such as Victoria or any of the other States. Hospital contributions are to be added to the steep increase of 25% in the medical insurance contributions, of which I have made mention already. The increase in hospital contributions is something that is still to come our way. The Minister has not been able to disclose what is likely to happen in that regard. 
Turning now to the provision concerning the low income earners subsidy that the Commonwealth is to pay, I am prepared to commend as much as the Government is doing but. as I heard the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  mention a little while ago, even this scheme has its very inequitable features. No provision is made in the Government scheme for the number of dependants that a family or a breadwinner may have. We have the provision, for instance, that a husband and wife on $42.50 a week will get complete exemption from any fees and from any payments. But, on the other hand, a family man with a wife and, say, 5 children - maybe even more - receiving $50 a week will be required to pay the whole amount of medical insurance. This, surely, is inequitable. Tt is not in the spirit of the recommendations of the Government's own Committee. I refer to the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, the Nimmo Committee. It recommended that adjustments ought to be made on the basis of the number of dependants in a family. Here again we have a very inequitable provision. 
Of course, the thing that occurs to me as one who has to help people to fill in a lot of social service forms is this: I can conjure up the nightmare which will be involved in the administration of this means test and in the business of determining which people will be elgible for the concessional insurance rates from the Department. As we know, the Government will subsidise families which have an income of $42.50 a week. Those families will be wholly subsidised. In the case of families whose income is between $42.50 a week and $45.50 a week the Government will provide a subsidy of twothirds of the insurance contribution. Those families receiving between $45.50 a week and $48.50 a week will be subsidised onethird by the Government in respect of their insurance contributions. The phrase used in the Bill to describe the way in which this provison will operate refers to a 'definite period' in respect of these earnings. I have not seen an indication of what constitutes a definite period. But I can imagine the problems which will come the way of administrators in trying to keep track of people whose incomes vary considerably over a year or a longer period. So a quite costly and cumbersome means test will be applied in respect of this provision. 
I come to the matter of the total cost, at the moment, of the Government's measure. Of course, we all remember the announcement that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made with some gusto that the whole scheme would cost no more than $16m. This was presented in a way to help to ridicule Labor's proposition as being extremely expensive. Not only will the Government scheme not cost $16m but in fact the minimum Commonwealth contribution in respect of insurance is  ยง29. 5m,  almost double what the Government estimated. In addition, contributors for medical benefits alone will pay an estimated extra $24m per year. Then, further, there will be a Government subsidy of Slim to help in respect of low income earners. In all, this is a matter of some $64.5m. Onto that amount must be added the future costs of increased hospital insurance contributions. These could range to quite an amount if past experience is any guide. 
There are people in the community who would even suggest that the extra $64.5m to be added to the medical bill is a great under-estimate. Some informed critics are estimating that the bill will actually escalate to about $100m per year. This means of course a further tax burden on the community, and while the tax schedules operate in the very unjust way that they do, with heavy penalties on low and middle income earners, this will be a further regressive feature of the whole scheme. I could not help but be almost wryly amused by the Minister's comment about the difficulty of the election estimate by the Government of $16m as the cost of the improvements in our medical insurance scheme. The Minister said: 
The Government in no way apologises for its decision that this additional expenditure be undertaken. Indeed, it is proud to sponsor further improvements -  and so on and so on. In other words, the Minister was trying to cover up for the gross error that the Government had made. Yet this will not deter the Government, I am sure, on any future occasion from coming out and again costing Labor's proposals as far as health, education or any other matter might be concerned. 
Let me turn to some of the deficiencies of this Bill. Many of them are inherited and many of them are inherent in the Government's scheme. I refer, first of all, to the wastefulness. This scheme still retains a multiplicity of health insurance organisations. We strongly suspect that the 114 or more organisations that exist have contributed to the great cost of the Government's scheme over the years. The Government refuses to adopt the Nimmo Committee's recommendation to regionalise the open funds and to get rid of what was called the aggressive competitiveness that existed, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, in respect of the operations of the 2 major open funds - the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia, lt refuses to do this despite all the evidence of this kind of wasteful expenditure. We do not need to be reminded of it in detail but just to note that the Nimmo Committee outlined it, as also did the Senate Committee in its report. 
There were the excessive managerial expenses, reaching as high as 21% of the contributors' money. People who need help In sickness see about $1 of every $4 they contribute going in managerial expenses or in accumulation of unneedful reserves. Reserves have reached the astronomical total of 5120m. This money could have been used 10 give better benefits or cheaper insurance rates to contributors. All this money that is being socked away in cold storage against the day of some mythical catastrophe or some plague that might befall the community could have been used for all the people who are dissatisfied with the inadequate benefits they receive. Now the Government has said: 'Well, these fund organisations are going to have to disgorge a good deal of these accumulated reserves'. The unhappy part about it is that many of the good people who contributed over the years to building up these reserves are no longer alive to benefit from the disgorgement that will come in due course. 
As further evidence of this wastefulness, both the Nimmo Committee and the Senate Select Committee referred to the multiplicity of branch offices. The organisations have set up branches in various community centres all over New South Wales. Yet in Western Australia the 1 open fund operating there has 2 branch offices servicing quite effectively, efficiently and economically the whole State. But that is not so in New South Wales particularly, a situation of which I am aware, where ornate and elaborate branch offices are servicing the community or, rather, making a good deal for the organisations. Then there was the heavy advertising engaged in by the open funds in their aggressive tactics of trying to steal contributors from one another and contributing nothing to the community. Then there was the matter of agency costs and inducements given to agents to try to secure not only new contributors but to poach upon the preserves of other fund organisations. 
One of the obvious deficiencies in the scheme still is the benefit gap. 1 remind the Government that the Nimmo Committee recommended that the patient should have to pay directly not more than $1 per service whether it be for a general practitioner or a specialist service. The Government has made a great to-do about the fact that it is limiting the patient's charges to $5. 
The charge is limited if the practitioner, whether a specialist or a general practitioner, keeps to the common fee. The Minister mentioned the 80c. it is quite true that the patient does have to pay 80c but according to my mathematics 80c paid in New South Wales on a common fee of $3.50 represents a cover of 77%. Gone, apparently, are the days when the Government aspired to a cover of up to 90% . Even under this so-called improved scheme the Government is prepared to cover only 77% where the patient is charged no more than $3.50 - the common fee mentioned in the schedule. But not even the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  was prepared to give an assurance that doctors would stick to the common fee. He knew that he could not do that. After all, the common fee is not a stable fee. It is not a particular fee charged by all doctors. It just represents, I suppose, something akin to an average. It does not necessarily mean an average. We all know that in New South Wales, and particularly in Sydney - the area that I am most conversant with - in the eastern suburbs and in the Manly district doctors charge more than $3.50. The fee gets up to as high as $4 and even more. The patients of those doctors will not just pay 80c; they will pay the difference between the $3.50 and the actual charge plus the 80c. So, in fact, they may well find themselves getting a coverage down to about 60% or even less in respect of a general practitioner service. Is not this the most common service that we all are likely to want? I cannot imagine that those who are charging a higher fee - general practitioners or specialists - will reduce their fee to the common fee, but I can expect that those who are charging below the common fee will lift their charges up to the common fee. 
When we come to surgical operations, if the specialist does decide to charge above the common fee then the patient is liable for quite an amount because he will have to pay a much higher contribution; so he will lose out all round. There is no attempt to enforce the common fees. I do not imagine that there could be, but I will go along with the Minister and the Government in hoping that the medical fraternity will do their best to see that the common fees are adhered to. No scheme - the Government's scheme or the Labor Party's scheme - can work without the co-operation of the medical fraternity in this regard. 1 turn to hospitals. The Government said that this is a matter to be dealt with in the future. The $2 a day maximum Commonwealth benefit that has operated for the last 12 years, that is since 1958, is still to be the maximum Commonwealth benefit paid in respect of hospitalisation. No wonder the States and the State hospitals are running into such heavy debt. I ask honourable members to relate the $2 to the charge in public wards, let alone intermediate or private wards. How far would $2 a day go towards meeting current costs in hospitals? 
The nursing home subsidy of $2 is quite inadequate, but it persists. Representations have been made to me and I have passed them on to the Minister. There are people - single pensioners, for instance - in nursing homes who have no income but their pensions. They are confronted with having to pay $40 a week and, more often, more than that for nursing home care. What do they have with which to pay for it? If they give the whole of their pension of $15 a week and they get the $2 a day subsidy from the Commonwealth they have $29 a week to pay a bill of $40 or more. Some of them will be a little better off because they will receive the $2 supplementary assistance if they do not own a home of their own and if they qualify under the means test. 
General hospitals have been largely neglected by the Bill. The $5 a day that the Government pays in respect of pensioners in public hospitals remains the same despite the fact that hospital costs have vastly escalated well beyond that kind of charge. It is no wonder the public hospitals are in debt and no wonder the States are screaming out at the Commonwealth for its neglect of its own acknowledged responsibility - pensioners. As a result, of course, many hospitals refuse to accept pensioner patients. They are diverted to the nursing homes to which I have referred already. 
This also applies to home nursing services. I had representations made to me 3 or 4 weeks ago by the Rockdale Municipal Council, which is in my electorate. It stated to me that it costs the Council, which is responsible for a pretty ordinary sized municipality, $20,000 a year for its subsidy towards the cost of the matron and nurses employed by the home nursing service. That is not the real defect of the whole business; it is just the inadequate approach that the Government takes to home nursing services. This was bitterly criticised fairly recently by a  Dr Billingham  of Sydney's Prince Henry Hospital. He very severely criticised the Government for its lack of interest in home nursing services. He is reported in the 'Australian' of 12th February 1970 as having said: 
The Federal Treasurer has continued to decide that the Commonwealth will not subsidise domiciliary nursing on  a  pay basis although quite willing to subsidise nursing in public and private institutions. 
He went on to say: 
I think we can anticipate agreement that the determination of whether a patient with chronic disability is treated at home or in an institution should be made for medical and not social reasons. Alas, this is not so in practice. 
He further added: 
Except for pensioner patients and those coming under the hospital umbrella, patients with disabilities needing even the minimum of nursing must go to institutions for clumsy administrative reasons. Some of the victims of this decision were invalided married couples, who with home nursing could stay together, but had to be deprived of one another's company during periods in hospital. 
I hope that the Minister for Health and the Government will take notice of that gentleman's informed criticism. 
Of course, we still have no comprehensive coverage under the Government's so called national health scheme. There is no provision for most of the ancillary services such as dentistry, optometry, physiotherapy and speech therapy. They are not included in the Bill. There are some limited provisions in the Bill in respect of optometrists and opticians making referrals to an ophthalmologist or an eye doctor. But the important point about even that provision, as reported to me by an opthalmologist over the weekend, is that where an ophthalmologist, a medical man, carries out a very searching examination of a patient to see whether he is suffering from an eye disease and is of the opinion that the patient is not suffering from an eye disease but needs spectacles or different spectacles for his refraction problem, the patient attracts no benefits for the specialist's service simply because spectacles were prescribed. The Government has to get over its obsession about the non-inclusion of services where spectacles are prescribed. It leads to some serious anomalies. 
The Nimmo Committee made a special plea that physiotherapists be included in the national health scheme. For some reason the Government rejected the Committee's plea. One can quite appreciate the position. I had representations made to me very recently concerning a case where a Macquarie Street specialist prescribed physiotherapy and directed the patient to go to a physiotherapist in Macquarie Street to have that treatment. Because the specialist did not carry out the physiotherapy - he probably thought that the physiotherapist could do it much better - the patient did not receive any benefits. The Government has to look into these anomalies. 
Time will not allow me to go on to talk about some other matters, such as the dearth of hospitals in the various States.  Mr Jago,  the Minister for Health in New 
South Wales, says that there are 250 locations in New South Wales alone where there is a dire need for a new hospital or where some old, obsolete building needs to be pulled down and something better put in its place. I am reminded of this need every time I go out to the western suburbs of Sydney and see somewhere about Ashfield a big notice which reads: 'New Western Suburbs Hospital'. It has underneath those words: 'When? Ask your local member." I suppose that kind of sign can be put up in many places over the whole of Australia. We have all been told in recent weeks of the tremendous dearth of nurses and of all kinds of trained people who are so badly needed in our hospitals. Some reference has been made to the greater dearth of general practitioners in the community. I want to say, as one who has had an acquaintance with and practice in educational circles, I have always found that by far the hardest 2 faculties to get your son into are the medical faculty and the law faculty. This sort of thing has to stop. I had the Parliamentary Library take out some statistics for me dating back to 1965. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate these statistics in Hansard. 

<graphic href="067131197005062_55_0.jpg"></graphic>

These figures show that there has been COm.partively little increase in the enrolments in the medical faculty at our universities between 1965 and 1969. The specific figures for the whole of Australia show that in 1965 there were 5,769 enrolments and that in 1969 there were 6,505 enrolments. Something has to be done about this situation. Far greater provision must be made for all those youngsters who are going through 6 years of high school and who are aspiring to go into the noble profession of medicine. The community needs them. They want to go into the profession. Something has to be done about it, and the community ought to demand that something be done. 
The figures for each of the States show much the same trend as I have indicated. It is absurd that in New South Wales in 1965 there were 2,228 enrolments in medicine and that in 1969 the number was only a little more, being 2,391. We are not getting ahead; we are not even keeping up with the population increase. It has been put to me by medical practitioners and by some of the colleges that there needs to be better teaching facilities and, quite frankly, better tuition in our medical schools. There is too strong a reliance on the old lecture technique, inadequate provision for selection procedures and inadequate provision for testing students. The number of students who miss out after the first year in medicine is notorious. Something can be done to remedy that defect. 
I have not mentioned many other things that the Government has left unresolved. 1 have not mentioned the whole referral mechanism, the disciplinary boards, or the establishment, which has been strongly recommended, of a hospitals commission. All of these things have been left up in the air. So much needs to be done. I understand that the Government is to adjourn the debate after the second reading stage to give honourable members and the community a chance to have a further look at the Bill. This can do nothing but good. 
I ask the Treasurer: Is the Government aware of the sorry plight of many thousands of citizens in our community, particularly those on social services and retirement incomes, who are suffering severely from a widespread bout of price increases. Was the last quarterly cost of living increase the greatest in the last 15 years, at least in New South Wales? Specifically, when does the Government intend to adjust the superannuation benefits of its own retired public servants to meet the cost of living increases since 1967? Finally, are there any practical reasons why the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund cannot be reviewed more frequently than once every 5 years. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did a DC9 aircraft carrying passengers land at Mascot Airport during curfew hours on the night of 13th January 1970. 
If so, for what reason was this landing made. 
How many other landings and take-offs of jet aircraft were made within curfew hours at Mascot Airport in each of the months of November and December 1969 and January and February 1970. 
What were the circumstances and what was the airline involved in each instance. 
I wish to move the amendment to clause 5 circulated in my name. 
I would like to persist and to go back to clause 8. lt is stated in the Bill that a professional service is a medical service that is rendered by or on behalf of a medical practitioner. What I want to know and what thousands of people in the community want lo know- 
Not a syllabic has been uttered on the definition. 
In clause 23 reference is made in several places to a professional service. I tried to raise this matter earlier in the debate. At this stage 1 ask the Minister to clarify the issue for me. Clause 8 defines 'professional service' as: 
A medical service that is rendered by, or on behalf of, a medical practitioner; . . . 
I am wondering how far that can be taken. I am mindful of all those people who go along to, say, a Macquarie Street, Sydney specialist who, after examination, states that the patient has to have physiotherapy. 1 know of such cases where a person has been referred to a quite eminent physiotherapist located in Macquarie Street, and subsequently has made a claim for the physiotherapy services provided. The fund organisation stated that in the circumstances no payment could be made. Apparently the benefits could be paid only if the medical specialist himself, or someone under his immediate direction - presumably within his own surgery - had carried out the phys:0.therapy treatment. But mindful of the fact that he was not nearly as capable of carrying out the physiotherapy as the person who specialised in that field he directed the person to go to the physiotherapist, and as I indicated, the subsequent application for benefit payment was refused. I am thinking also of the same sort of thing and the same kind of referral that might be made by a medical specialist to, say, a speech therapist or any one of a number of people who provide what we term ancillary medical services. I ask the Minister to indicate to me at this stage the limits of that definition of professional service to which T referred? 
I remain unconvinced by the remarks of the Minister for Health. After all, there are many other people in public life who are subjected to a good deal of pressure, not the least being the parliamentarians. If people are in a position to make decisions affecting the whole populace, as is the case here, those people should be publicly responsible for the decisions they make. It is common knowledge in the profession that many of the pharmaceutical companies are well aware of some of the personnel on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. Let us look first of all at the kind of people who are on this yet another secret society attached to he health scheme. They are the people who recommend proposals to the Minister for his ultimate decision. The matter does not come before the Parliament; it is solely in the hands of the Minister. The members decide what kind of drugs will be on the pharmaceutical benefits list, which ones stay on, which ones are removed, or which new ones may be admitted from time to time. This is a matter that affects the health of not thousands but literally millions of people in our community. It is a pretty important business. 
The personnel of the Committee comprises a pharmacist from the Commonwealth Department of Health appointed by the Director-General, 6 medical practitioners appointed by the Minister from among 10 medical practictioners nominated by the Federal Council of the Australian Medical Association, and a pharmaceutical chemist appointed by the Minister from among 3 pharmaceutical chemists nominated by the Federal Pharmaceutical Service Guild of Australia. These are the sorts of people that make up that body. I have not heard of any suggestion by the medical organisation that the names of these people should not become known. As a matter of fact I have received a lot of complaints, not only from patients but also from the medical fraternity, concerning the decisions made by this eminent body. Many of us have been aware of doctors in our own community prescribing a particular drug of obvious benefit to a patient and knowing that that drug was not on the benefit list. 1. can recall instances where that has gone on for months and even a year or more. 
We have often been asked to respect the professional status of the doctor. We are reminded of the kind of qualifications the doctor has. What kind of recognition is there for a doctor who is convinced out of his own experience over a period of time dealing with many cases that a particular drug is the one that will give relief to and maybe even restore the health of his patient. From time to time we are reminded that people are not just all of a kind. There are probably as many different kinds of people as there are people. Yet in the long run we are confronted with standardised decisions, which are meant to apply to the large bulk of people rather than allowing the practitioner who knows and studies his patient and who has had his patient under his or her care for a long time to make his own diagnosis and prescription. He can be vetoed by decisions of this kind. If we are to have public advisory bodies such as this the Opposition suggests they should be known to people other than just the pharmaceutical industry. No doubt it brings its pressures on these people for the inclusion of drugs manufactured by its organisations. lt should be appropriate that the doctors, the patients and the millions of people in the community who are affected by these decisions should have the opportunity of making their submissions to a public inquiry. We do this with many other things. We do not seem to have any quibble about public inquiries when we are dealing with public mental health or education. But in this field we have this problem. One other aspect I would like to mention while 1 am on my feet is the apparent infrequency of meetings of a body such as this. I would like the Minister to correct me if I am wrong but, as I understand it, it meets about twice a year. One of my colleagues has just assured me that it is 3 times. Many doctors have complained to me that many people undergo a great deal of inconvenience, to say nothing of pain and suffering, while the advice of a body of this kind is awaited, despite the testimony there might be from many doctors that a certain drug seems eminently suitable for a patient under their care. I finalise my remarks now. Quite frankly I have been vetoed out of this debate on 3 occasions already when I have had amendments to move and have not been allowed to move them. 
The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  who is interjecting, need not worry. I will not let the opportunity go by without making my protest against the farcical situation in the deliberations on this Bill. One arm of the Government, the Country Party, has not had one  speaker  for the duration of the Committee stage of this important Bill. The Liberal Party has had 2 speakers. One was the honourable member for McMillan who, I understand, walked out of the House in utter frustration and the other was the Minister for Health. What kind of a way is this to conduct the business of a national parliament when it is deciding and discussing a matter of momentous importance to the whole community? It is all very well for the Government to spend months consulting with doctors. How about consulting with the representatives of the mass of the people who come to this Parliament? Are we not entitled to be heard? We are in contact with and hear from our constituents. We know their grievances with the national health scheme but no opportunity of any consequence is given for us to debate this matter. We have had far more discussion outside the Parliament in our own Party rooms than we ever looked like having in this Parliament. It is an absolute disgrace. This Bill has not been considered. The amendments that we intended to propose have not even been moved. There are many questions which arise out of this Bill, even basic definitions. Yet they cannot be entertained because we have 6 hours in which to debate the whole of the Bill. I lodge my firm protest against this farcical situation. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that an absolute fundamental to the success of a national health scheme is the availability of an adequate supply of effectively trained and professionally contented nurses. Quite frankly, I was very disappointed in the statement made today by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  He chose at least 2 areas in which to shunt responsibility onto other people. Firstly he blamed the States for a lot of the crises in the nursing profession today. He said that nursing was the prime responsibility of the States except in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Secondly - and this train of thought was continued by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  - he said that the matter of salaries in particular was one for the courts. I think I quote the Minister correctly when I say that he said that the wage claims of the nurses are best settled by the court. The honourable gentleman for Lyne elaborated on this point and said that this was not a matter over which there should be political action. Yet only a few days ago in this place, in a very political setting and in a very political sense, we finally determined to some extent the salaries of doctors throughout the community and the remuneration that they are likely to receive. 
I do not think many people in the community would have blamed the Commonwealth Government if it had gone into the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission hearing of the nurses case and had pleaded the public cause. Never mind just the nurses cause. It should consider also the public interest about which we hear so much. The Commonwealth should have gone to the Commission and drawn attention to the fact that the Government's great investment in the whole of our national health scheme could be seriously undermined because of the inadequate number of nurses in our community. I do not think I need quote statistics to illustrate the problem. The problem is well enough known. It has already been referred to. We hear of wards being closed in hospitals all over the place, not only in South Australia and Victoria, but also in my own State of New South Wales and in Queensland. Wherever one goes in the country or the city the situation is the same. This means that a whole lot of sick people are unable to gain admission to hospital. Nurses, on the other hand, already in short supply, are becoming physically exhausted because they are overworked. This in turn leads to further resignations. It all snowballs. 
There has been no great increase in the intake of student nurses in the last 10 years. In Melbourne fewer nurses were entering the profession in 1969 than in 1967, 2 years earlier. Doctor J. S. Lawson, the Medical Superintendent of the Footscray and District Hospital, in an article in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' of 26th July 1969 entitled 'Who will Nurse the Sick in the Seventies?' made some very important points regarding the shortage of nurses in Australia. He indicated that the position was more likely to get worse than better, and he gave his reasons. First of all, the proportion of females in the population aged between 15 and 19, from which we are likely to recruit trainee nurses, is declining in relation to the number of males and females over 65 in the community - the people who will make the greatest demands on hospitalisation. He says in fact that, according to his projections, the ratio will deteriorate by 10% between 1969 and 1979. He went on to mention that the duties of the nurse are becoming more complex and more sophisticated. New techniques are being introduced and new technology is involved. He mentioned such things as spare parts surgery - we are just at the outset of this development and tremendous things could happen in the future - the whole range of coronary care, respiratory assistance units and the monitoring of unborn infants. These are all comparatively new fields, all making their demands on the nursing profession. 
Thirdly, he mentioned the fact that national health schemes surely aspire to making it easier for more people to get the kind of medical and hospital care that they need. The introduction of means test, free public wards in hospitals must all add up to a greater number of people entering hospital, while at the same time the pool from which we can draw trainee nurses is reducing comparatively. Talking of wastage, not only of nurse trainees but also of those who have graduated as nurses, he makes the following remarks: Of the 1965- 66 intake of trainee nurses in Victoria, 34.4% were lost to the profession before they had graduated. In New South! Wales the figure was as high as 50% in certain places. The highest loss of ali is in the first year of traineeship. 
This is the place above all where new educational techniques ought to be applied. 1 can only wonder where the tutors in nursing hospitals get their training. As one who has been involved in educational training, I can say that they certainly do not get it in our teachers colleges. I am not aware of them having any professional qualifications as educators. In fact this was one of the points made in a recent report by the nursing profession itself. I wonder how many of the new teaching techniques and teaching aids are available to the tutors. They do have some training in imparting their knowledge. But what of the training that is provided by the medical staff, the honorary doctors and honorary specialists? How much training have they had in the art of imparting their skill and knowledge. There seems to be implicit in this whole business the old concept that applies in technical education. If someone is well qualified and knowledgable in a particular field he is accepted as being qualified to impart his knowledge. This is a belief we have to get over, and 1 am heartened to hear that at least here in the national capital inquiries are being made and moves are afoot, to bring nursing training within the province of colleges of advanced education. 
It is heartening that it will happen in the new college of advanced education at Bathurst. This will be a big step forward. When talking of nursing as a profession, the nurses themselves have to recognise that they will receive professional recognition, of which salaries are a part, only if they are qualified. Not only must they undertake certain responsibilities but they must have what are commonly regarded as professional qualifications. As members of a profession, they would be well advised to seek opportunities for better training not only for under-graduates but for those who have graduated. I think they ought to plug very hard for the setting up in every big hospital of a counselling service so that youngsters, when they are having difficulty in their training or in their operations within the hospitals, will have someone to turn to for help in the art of communicating with those in authority. It has been represented to me by senior nursing staff that one of the great problems in our hospitals today is this break down of communications, this sense of isolation, this sense of frustration, of not knowing where to turn. This is something that could be done quite readily along with relieving nurses of the non-professional duties that were enumerated by my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley. 
In my former field of teaching these things have been happening for so long. Headmasters and teachers were filling in form's, doing playground duties and a whole host of other clerical duties that could well have been performed by people who did not need the same professional qualifications. The number of nurses in the community is relatively scarce. This imposes even greater responsibility on us to make the best possible and the most economical use we can of those scarce and valuable nursing resources. Obviously what is needed is a greater knowledge of the facts of the situation. For that reason we ought to be conducting a national inquiry, and not a little piecemeal inquiry, as valuable as it might be, here in the Australian Capital Territory or may be in one or two States. What is needed is a thorough, systematic national inquiry into the state of nursing. Such an inquiry is coming far too late. It should have come years ago. If it had we would not have reached this crisis situation. But it is better late than never. Such an inquiry is already under way in Great Britain. I will quote the terms of reference. 
Last year the British Government set up an inquiry: 
To review the role of the nurse and the midwife in the hospital and the community and the education and training required for that role, so that the best use is made of available manpower to meet present needs and the needs of an integrated health service. 
This sort of inquiry, to which public testimony of all kind can be made, could do nothing but a lot of good for our health services. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like to refer to the Schedule. I do not want to give the impression of being parochial about this; it is just a matter of legitimate inquiry. I see that the limit of the grant for the triennium for New South Wales is $9.9m and for Victoria it is S9.5m. I think everybody is well aware that New South Wales has a somewhat bigger student population than Victoria. I would say that it also had a bigger teachers college population than would its neighbour Victoria. I am just wondering why the 2 States have almost the same amount of money provided for them. Is it because New South Wales has been a bit laggard in developing its teachers colleges in response to the Commonwealth's grants? If I remember correctly, the only new developments in the triennium coming up will be the building of further stages - of existing colleges. Presumably New South Wales does not intend in the next 3 years to embark on the building of another new teachers college. Is that the reason for this limitation? 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. What prompted the Government in 1965 to introduce the Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme and the Commonwealth technical scholarship scheme? Why has the Government allowed the number of these scholarships to remain static while the number of applicants for secondary scholarships has increased by 23,300 and the number of applicants for technical scholarships has increased by over 17,400? Must not the Government's neglect seriously aggravate inequality of educational Opportunity to the special disadvantage of less well off families and also impair the flow of skill so sorely needed in the Australian economy? 
I do not know why the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  should take the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  to task for wanting to knew what the Government identifies as being a sufficient number of teachers at some future time. After all, the Martin inquiry did set out to try to estimate what was the likely school population at different levels of education and the likely number of teachers who would be required to service such a number of children. Every Education Department worth its salt in Australia has a research section and part of its task is to do just this thing. The honourable member for Bendigo was quite entitled to ask, when we are provided with a measure of this kind, what are the specific objectives, what is the target that the Government has in mind and what is the problem that is anticipated and which it hopes to overcome. The honourable member for Diamond Valley also said - I do not know where this information came from - that this measure is intended to provide 6,000 new places in teachers colleges. That remark certainly is not contained in the second reading speech of the Minister and I do not see a reference to it in any other place. All I know is that, after the last triennium grant to New South Wales, the number of new places that will be made available in teacher colleges will be very few indeed. This is for the simple reason that most of the new buildings - and I applaud the erection of them - will replace obsolete buildings that needed to be torn down about half a century ago. So at this stage the number of new places in teachers colleges in New South Wales will be quite low indeed. 
The only other point I want to mention in reference to the remarks of the previous speaker was his statement that the Commonwealth was helping to provide science blocks and libraries in areas of need. I am prepared, and a lot of other people are prepared, to call into question whether these laboratories and libraries are being provided in the places of most urgent need. Some of the big schools - not only private schools but some of the State schools - that are receiving this assistance ahead of other schools seem not to have the same urgent need. Many of them already have facilities that many State schools and many private schools would envy very much. The other point about them - and this is very relative to the Bill we are dealing with- is that whilst the Commonwealth has in the past done a fair bit to help the development of science facilities and now library facilities, it has not provided the teaching staff, the personnel to make good use of those laboratories and libraries. There is a lot of science equipment lying around in schools simply because there is no science teacher on the staff qualified to use it. 
This brings me to my main contribution to the debate. The Bill is welcome. I welcome it. I welcome anything that will help education. The Bill is welcome because it does provide the useful sum of $30m over the next 3 years. Thirty million dollars is still a reasonable sum of money. 1 do not know whether or not it will be adequate. The Minister for Education and Science and certainly the Government have given us no indication of the objectives. We get the bald amount of $30m; we get no kind of documentation from the Commonwealth or the client States to show how this amount was decided upon. 
The second thing I applaud about the Bill is that it allows for some continuity of planning. I. am glad we are past the old days when provision for these things was made annually. A 3-year programme does enable continuity of planning. 1 am only sorry that the period could not have been even longer. In other countries such planning takes place over a 5-year period. I know from my own experience that the New South Wales Education Department would have been glad to know early last year whether the Commonwealth would be continuing to make capital grants for teachers colleges. 
The third thing I approve about the BUI is that it does involve an unmatched grant. Having said that, I cannot say that the provision of $10m a year in respect of capital assistance for the whole of Australia will transform the position of the critical teacher shortage that exists in this country. 
We have to measure the Bill's provisions against some of the aspects of the present crisis position. Let us remember that in respect of this Bill we are thinking mainly of the quantitative aspects - the things that can be measured in terms of bricks, mortar and dollars - rather than the qualitative aspects of the problem. 
Looking at the quantitative aspects, we have to remind ourselves that there is a very observable crisis - the shortage of teachers of all kinds in both State and nonState schools. There is a shortage in schools of teachers of different subjects. Many teachers are having to teach subjects for which they were not trained. They are apologetic about it and say it is not their wish that they do so. They do not think it is within their professional competence to do so. It assaults their regard for themselves as professional people when they try to teach subjects for which they have had no training. 
-i do not intend to, but I think we need to have some sort of measure of what this Bill is going to do and the problem with which it is confronted. The problem we are dealing with is the supply of teachers. Surely the very grave shortage of teachers Ls a thing that ought to be mentioned in a debate of this kind. 
I have heard many schools report that they do not have a science teacher or a mathematics teacher. The previous one left the service and went to a much better paid position in industry or commerce; or more likely went overseas to seek a position there; or possibly accepted a position to teach at a university or a new college nf advanced education; or maybe accepted a job in a teachers' college. All these areas of employment are drawing teachers away from the classroom and my wonder is whether this grant of $30m over the next 3 years will be even nearly adequate to meet that kind of need. Many students in secondary schools today are not able to take a subject at the level they would like. 
Many schools do not provide level 1 opportunities for bright students. If these opportunities are to be provided the student must go to another school. 
There is also the problem of migrants. I am glad to say that the Commonwealth has given some recognition of this problem and I applaud that. One problem coming up is the tuition of handicapped children of all kinds, and this House is to have a Bill on that subject. In the debate on that Bill I will be indicating again that the legislation does not deal adequately with the problem. This scarcity of teachers is not only in primary and secondary schools but even at the lower level of pre-school education and kindergarten, and then again at the tertiary level. The Institute of Technology in Sydney, at the beginning of this year had 4,500 qualified applicants for places and only 1,400 places were available. One of the reasons why more places were not available is not that there were inadequate buildings but that there were an inadequate number of lecturers and teachers for the purpose. So we are confronted with this rather critical shortage of teachers in our nation. 
As I have said already, there are increasing enrolments of 5-year old children. In New South Wales in this term many 5-year old children will not be admitted to schools simply because there are no teachers available. Nowadays many mothers are being urged to go back to work and in many cases the economic situation of their family demands that they do so. They are confronted with the position that they have nowhere to leave their children. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
On what basis was the $900,000 in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund distributed prior to Christmas 1969 among the approximately 3,500 eligible former members of the Permanent Defence Forces. 
What was the amount of the average payment. 
How many (a) senior officers,, (b) junior officers and (c) other ranks shared in the distribution. 
What was the (a) average and (hi total amount distributed in each of these categories. 
1 would like to make a couple of general comments. First of all 1 remind honourable members that this discussion comes back to this chamber at the initiative of the Senate. We will have to look at this matter constitutionally before very long. Because of the rules of the game the Opposition was unable even to submit an amendment of this kind before the Committee. Such an amendment was ruled out of order because this was a money Bill and it involved an increase of finance to meet the measure. Yet it is quite possible in another chamber, the Senate, to initiate revised thinking on the matter. The second comment I want to make is in respect of the suggestion made by my colleague, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  for the setting up of a committee. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  decried the suggestion. I ask: What kind of debate have we had ;n this Committee on the National Health Bill? As 1 recall it, we have heard from 2 members of the Liberal Party, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  and the honourable member for McMillan. They were the only speakers not only in the present discussion but, as I recall it, in the Committee stages of the Bill when it was last before us. What participation has there been :n this debate by Government members? Here is a National Health Bill which one would have thought would interest every honourable member in this chamber. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether the Government regards the engineering profession as vitally important to the national economy. Are proportionately fewer people now entering the profession? Have the many representations from a wide variety of sources convinced the Minister of the existence of seething unrest and industrial dissatisfaction among engineers because of denial of salary justice and professional status? Can the Minister indicate before Parliament enters the recess what steps are being taken to avert the industrial action now threatened as a last resort by this most responsible body of professional men? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to lay how many persons (a) commenced and (b) completed training in the nursing profession in each State and mainland Territory in each of the last 10 years. 
If so, what did the number represent per. thousand of population in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What is the waiting time for Housing Com mission or Housing Trust homes for rental in each of the States over the past  10  years? 
What means test applied in each instance? 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Are there any practical or insurmountable problems involved in making a full review of the 
Commonwealth Superannuation Fund more frequently than under the present quinquennial arrangements. 
Would it be possible for an annual review to be made. 
Do present arrangements involve protracted examinations and delayed adjustments to the disadvantage of superannuitants. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When was the Inter-Departmental Committee established to investigate the siting of a second airport to serve Sydney. 
Who are the members of the Committee. 
On what dates has the Committee mct. 
When does the Committee expect to make its report. 
My question is directed to the Prime. Minister. Has the Government done anything, even at this belated stage, to remove the acute disappointment of the Australian team to the Commonwealth Games at Edinburgh at being compelled to compete with a debt of $16,000 over its head? Why did the Commonwealth restrict its subsidy to the same rather paltry amount as it had given on a similar occasion about 12 years ago? Will the Government now give a more tangible expression of the nation's thanks and congratulations to these eminently fine and successful young ambassadors for Australia by eliminating this debt? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Barton respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is die acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land* (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951) and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I shall be brief. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  As many honourable members know, I served in the Parliament for about 8 years and then I was out for 3 years. On my return I noticed a tremendous change in the constitution of the Parliament. Not only are the Government and Opposition parties more evenly divided, but also the membership of the House is generally younger and, if I may say so with respect, more articulate. More people want to speak now than at any time when I was in the Parliament before. I can well understand the frustration of many honourable members who have an urgency to speak but who are debarred from doing so. The other impression I have as one who listened outside the Parliament for 3 years is that on many occasions the Parliament suffers from rather tedious repetition and from lengthy speeches which cause the listener to turn his radio off. 
I am sure that if speeches made in the House were reduced in the way that has been suggested there would be much more variety, many more points of view would be presented, there would be a much greater interest in this chamber, and a much greater attendance would be attracted. As a member of the Opposition I am not worried that we might lose the opportunity to put our case. I think that we will be able to put our case even more effectively by presenting more points of view. Supporters of the Government will be able to do likewise. Therefore, for all these reasons - to obviate the current lengthy and tedious speeches that we sometimes get; to create more variety; to present more points of view; to be democratic in the way we suggest; and to give each honourable member representing his constituents a much better opportunity to present his and their views in this House - I think the amendment ought to be carried. 
Question put: 
That the amendment (Or Solomon's) be agreed to. 
-] present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate and the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty 'bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to say just a brief work to indicate also my support for the amendment. 1 hope honourable members will realise what an important step they are taking - not so much with regard to the running of Parliament but with regard to the respect that the community outside of this place will have for Parliament. If we are prepared to allow 25 people to make up the mind of Parliament on legislation - if we are prepared to quit our jobs and leave it to them to do that - then I do not think we deserve the respect of the public. As has already been pointed out, a handful of people - a mere 13 - could make national decisions here in this national Parliament. 
It is not wrong. Out of a quorum of 25 members 13 could represent a majority. Therefore I earnestly appeal to my colleagues to make sure that the respect of this Parliament will not be frittered away on something that apparently does not matter so much anyhow in the actuality of the running of Parliament. Apparently it is on most rare occasions that legislation is passed through this House without at least a third of the members being present. If this is so then why quibble about the amendment? 

 Mr TURNBULL (Mallee) [3.38J- My position on this amendment is very easily and quite quickly stated. It is on record that I am one of the members who voted against the general reduction in the quorum. I feel very strongly on this matter. This amendment gives me another chance to make the quorum as I thought it should be constituted operate on the special occasion of a vote in the House and, of course, I will act accordingly. 
 One has to pay tribute to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  for after all he was one of the few Government supporters prepared to defend the provisions of this Bill. I only hope that he will be as ready to go out into his electorate and speak to the various pensioner organisations and retired people on superannuation so eloquently in defence of the provisions of the Bill. The debate so far has been quite notable for the reluctance by most Government supporters to speak on the Bill. Nearly every Government  speaker  who spoke on this matter in the general Budget debate did so in rather ashamed tones and said that he felt the Government should have done more for the pensioners. Right throughout the Budget debate Government supporters said that the Government could have done more for the pensioners, but when it comes to a vote on this Bill they will vote for the Bill, and so for all its deficiencies. 
I strongly support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on behalf of the Opposition, and at this late stage of the debate I would like to remind the 
House of the terms of that amendment. The honourable member for Oxley moved: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill this House is of opinion that - " (1) the increases proposed are inadequate, 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living, 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty and 
a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated'. 
This is saying no more than what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said on behalf of this Party during the Federal election campaign last October. The honourable member for Mitchell said something about the phrase 'whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill'. It would be rather stupid on our part to deny pensioners the frugal benefits that even this Bill provides. Something is always better than nothing, I suppose. Why should pensioners not have been bitterly disappointed by this Bill and by the Budget proposals? First, out of a total record Budget expenditure of $7, 883m the best the Government says it can afford for pensioners is an increase of 50c a week, a fraction more than 7c a day. That is the reality of it - 7c a day. We are giving to the pensioners the price of one decent piece of fruit extra a day. We are paying, if you like, the price of one newspaper extra a day. That is the measure of our affluence. 
We are doing this, I might remind the House, not only at a time when Government revenues are flourishing in the terms I have mentioned - expenditure is up and, correspondingly, receipts are up also - but also at a time when companies in this country are making unprecedented multimillion profits. We heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  make some reference earlier this evening to one such organisation. We are doing this to pensioners when wages and salaries are being increased almost across the board. We are giving this 50c a week subsidy to pensioners when at the same time we are paying out millions of dollars in subsidy to farmers in record amounts, and above all, we are doing this to pensioners when prices for a whole range of necessary items are increasing almost every week. 
The House has already dealt with many of the inadequacies of the Bill, but let me refer to just a few instances to illustrate how wrong the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is when he claims that the paltry 50c increase has, quoting his own term, maintained the so-called peak position reached in regard to pensioners' income. Take, for instance. A class widows. These are widows who are under 50 years of age and who have dependent children. A widow with one dependent child who may be 14, 15 or 16 years of age will receive a princely sum under this Bill of $22 a week for herself and her child. She will, it is true, get an extra $2 a week if she is paying rent or board. God help her, I say, if she is in that position. She will also get a small increment in child endowment of 50c a week, the same as it has been since the 1940s. She will receive $22 a week plus the 50c child endowment to maintain herself and her child unless of course she can go out to work, and even then her income will be limited. 
Take the position of a widow who is unlucky enough to have been left with 4 dependent children. What she will get under this Bill is the princely sum of $32.50 a week. I wonder what man in this House would want to be maintaining himself and 4 children on $32.50 a week. Is this not what people refer to as downright poverty? Of all the A class widows to which 1 have referred 41.5 per cent are women with one child, 29.7 per cent of them have 2 children, 16 per cent have 3 children, 4 per cent have 4 children, and 5.1 per cent of widows have 5 or more children. I have often thought to myself - a pretty sober thought - what would happen in my household if, for instance, on some aeroplane trip home or going somewhere from this place the aircraft should crash and I amongst others should not live to see it through. I can think of a fair bit of struggling that would have to go on to maintain my 3 school age children at school. I can only think how much worse it would be for the widow of a tradesman or a person on a comparatively low income. What must their position be? I think it ought to stir us sometimes to recognise the plight of such people and make better provision for them. 
I would suggest, if I may, just as a relatively isolated point in this context, that we ought to pay supplementary assistance, such as that paid in respect of rent, to A class widows who are paying off their homes. Many women can be widowed at the early age of 20, 30 or maybe 40 and left with children, but because they are not paying rent they do not qualify for the supplementary assistance. Some are in a much worse position than if they had been paying rent. They could be paying off a substantial debt on their homes. In my view they ought to qualify for the supplementary assistance also. As a matter of fact, if I had my way, all pensioners, including married pensioners paying rent, would qualify for the supplementary assistance, subject to the normal means test. 
The Minister tries to persuade us that the position of pensioners has not been in any way prejudiced. It has not been improved, he admits, but it has not been prejudiced within the last 12 months or so simply because of this 50c grant. I want to remind the Minister that this Bill makes no provision for any increase in the allowance for the dependants of pensioners. There has been no increase in this allowance for 2 years. This Bill provides for no increase in the mother's allowance that is paid to the mothers of dependent children. There is no provision for an increase in child endowment, asI have already mentioned, and what is more there is no provision for an increase in the permissible earnings of a widow or other pensioner who may qualify under the means test. 
If there has not been any increase in those provisions it must mean, in the face of price inflation, that their position overall has deteriorated. Of course it has. It is no good the Minister trying to persuade us otherwise. If these ancillary benefits have not been increased, their real value in purchasing terms must have gone down because, as we all recognise, inflation has been running at the order of 5 per cent per annum in recent times and the chances are that it will get worse. I will make some mention of that in a moment also. 
So what we have really announced in this Bill and in the Budget is that we are going to reduce the income of a million or more people in our community simply because we do not make provision for these other parts of their income situation. 
But whilst that position is bad enough and whilst we can refer to what has happened in terms of inflation, the prospects for the future are not bright at all. The current high inflation will further erode even the increase that has been provided in this Bill. The Government guarantees immediate deterioriation of the new pension by its simultaneous increase in telephone rentals. I wonder whether the Minister recognises that something like 9ยฝ weeks out of the total 52 weeks in a year of the pension increase will go in paying the new telephone rental increase, even allowing for the pensioner concession. The pensioner will be paying something of the order of $4.60 extra a year in increased telephone rentals, and what is more he or she will pay it 6 months in advance. So when the telephone bill with the new charges comes in October or November about 9 weeks in advance of the new pension increase will go on that 1 item alone, to say nothing of increased postal charges and increased sales tax on a whole range of items which pensioners buy, just as the rest of the community does. 
There are increased petrol charges. Many pensioners still own their own cars and they will pay the increased price for petrol. If they do not pay it themselves they will pay it in increased transport charges or in other ways and of course it will be reflected in overall increases in the price of goods and services in the community. In addition to this there are the consequential increases imposed by other public and private authorities. Some of my colleagues have already referred to the way rents have risen. Many pensioners have lost the whole of their increase and even more than their increase already through increased rents. There are also municipal and water board rates. 1 wonder whether the Minister or any other member of the Government would prophesy that there will not be an increase in municipal or water board rates in the next 12 months. I think he would be a very courageous person if he did so, in view of the high interest rates that this Government is imposing on local government authorities in respect of money they borrow. There are the prices of goodsand services that are going up almost weekly. Pensioners will be confronted with these because unfortunately they affect basic commodities that every person in the community needs. 
I have just a few more words to say on the matter of widows pensions and the means test. I have said before, and I feel it even more strongly now, that if we were not able to abolish the means test for everybody would it not be very proper to completely abolish the means test for widows? I do not suppose there is a member in this House who has not had the plaintive appeal from a widow with dependent children who is paying school fees, paying rent, paying for new uniforms and all the rest of it: Could 1 not earn just a bit more? What would happen to my pension if I earned just a bit more than the $12 or $13 a week I am allowed to earn?' We always have to come back and say: 'I am sorry, the best 1 can tell you is that under the tapered means test you will lose only 50c in every $1 you earn. Hitherto you lost $1 for every $1.' 1 do not think this would cost much. 1 am sure it would be comparatively easy on the economy to do this. After all, the figures in the departmental report tell me that there are 44,000 A class widows in the community and I think the total of class A and class B widows is not more than 80,000-odd. Many of them would not have great resources. We are not going to give a means test free pension to a whole lot of affluent widows within the community; anything but. 
While I am talking about (he means test, I hope that we can get over some of the arbitrary little regulations that affect the administration of it. 1 will quote only one or two as instances. I think most members are aware, but unfortunately not too many members of the public are, that a pensioner can rent 5 separate rooms of his or her home, and where the tenants share jointly in the other facilities - the kitchen, dining room, etc. - of the house there is no limitation on what can be charged to those persons by way of rental. Where there are 5 separate occupants each, we will suppose, occupying a separate bedroom and then having joint use of the other facilities of the house, there is no limit on what rental can be charged by the pensioner. But on the other hand if the pensioner rents 2 or more rooms to any I person or couple then that becomes an assessable item. Once that unit has 2 or more rooms it then becomes a flat or unit and therefore becomes assessable under the assets provision of the means test. This all seems so arbitrary and so artificial. The whole ramifications and provisions of the means test ought to be thoroughly overhauled. I thing this is long overdue. What we are doing all the time is just patching up here and there, and quite frankly there is much of the administration of the means test that is not written down. I could go on with other items - I will not because I do not have the time - such as regulations that are not available to the community at large and lots of people miss out even on the things that they would be entitled to receive. 
That is right. We get varying interpretations from different officers; that is how complicated it is. I can only think of the injustices that are done to people in innocence because of the multiplication not only of regulations but of interpretations of rules and regulations affecting the means test. There are other items in this Budget to which some of my colleagues have referred. One is the wife's allowance. For instance, where a male has turned 65 years of age but bis wife has not yet turned 60 she can get a wife's allowance of the princely sum of $7 a week, providing that her husband is an invalid. If he is 65 and has been compelled to retire from work and is not an invalid, which is more often the case, then the wife gets absolutely nothing. In other words, under this Bill we have 2 adult people living on $15.50 a week between them. Is it any wonder that people estimate the number of poverty stricken people in our community as running into something of the order of 1 million people. This is where one sees it. These are instances that one can find even among retired people. Even the $7 a week that brings the couple's pension to $22.50 is little enough. In all reasonableness I think that when a man turns 65 then his wife ought automatically to get the full pension. They ought to get the married rate pension between them. Why go on with all this humbug and deny these people the full rate and make them live under these frugal conditions. 
Then there is the B class widow, a widow who has turned 50 years of age with no dependent children. She is under 60 but over 50. Under this Bill she is entitled to a pension of $13.75. Goodness only knows why she should not get the same rate as an age or invalid pensioner - that is, $15.50. I would not know what makes us presume that such an adult woman with her commitments would be able to live on $1.75 a week less than her counterpart who happens to have an age or invalid pension. 1 think that the Minister must have been very disappointed in this Budget. I base this not only on what he has said in this House over the past years about pensions, endowment and the means test but also on what he is reported in a very reliable newspaper, the 'Sunday Telegraph', on 9th August - only a day or two before the Budget was presented - as saying. He is reported to have said that the Government should use taxation and endowment to correct the unfairness of the wages paid to the family man. The article continues: 
Australia had for many years been paying insufficient attention to the needs of the family as opposed to the needs of the individual', he said. An unduly high proportion from the wages fund is given to the individual without family responsibilities', he said. 'It is undesirable to ask employers to pay different wages, but in the Government's taxation and endowment system, this could be taken into account.' 
The Minister missed out on both counts in this Budget. No provision has been made for the family in the revision of the taxation scale. There has been the flat 10 per cent reduction in tax for salaries up to $10,000 but there is no increase in the allowance for families, and what is more, there has not been lc increase in child endowment. 
He knows all about it. 1 know that he will wince when he reads it again. This subject of child endowment involves such a wearying and boring recital that I hardly dare bring it up again. Child endowment for the first child has not been changed since 1950. There has been no increase in endowment for the second child since 1948. Endowment for the third child was increased 6 years ago. 
This Bill makes some provision - and to some extent I applaud this - for an increase in sickness benefits. Again the increase applies only when the person has been on sickness benefits for 6 weeks. During the first 6 weeks of sickness these people are expected to live on their accumulated resources. In many cases there are no resources on which &lt;to live but only accumulated debts. If these people suffer a prolonged illness and are in a semi-invalid state for some period of time they may well need any accumulated resources which they may have, and this is what this provision envisages. After 6 weeks the allowance for an adult receiving sickness benefits will go up from $10 a week to $15.50 - the same as the invalid pension. I suppose some increase is better than none. I am prepared to say that this will be of some help but again, $15.50 is not very much for a working man to live on after having been sick for 6 weeks with the prospect of a considerable period of invalidity to follow. If he happens to be a married man his spouse will gain no increase. She remains on $7 a week. A married couple receives $22.50 a week to live on after the bread winner has been sick for 6 weeks. He will receive an extra $2.50 for the first child and for the second and other children he will receive only $3.50. 1 thought that we were on the verge of recognising 18 to 20-year-olds as being adults. As a matter of fact everybody is in the race to see who will bring in the first electoral provision recognising young people of 18 and older as adults. This Bill perpetuates the status of a minor as applying to 18 to 20-year-olds. Accordingly, for the first 6 weeks an 18 to 20-year-old will still get $6 a week sickness benefit. No wonder there is poverty in the community. Quite frankly I have never understood why a young lad or a young girl of 18 to 20 could be expected to eat less and to pay less than an adult of 21 years for all the commodities and services for which they have to pay. In my experience, having youngsters of this age in my family, they eat a lot more than I do and it costs a lot more to clothe them. Yet there is the assumption that they can, somehow or other, cope on $6 a week for the first 6 weeks they are on sickness benefits and thereafter a uniform $10 a week under the provisions of this Bill. 1 could not hazard a guess as to how a 16 or 17 year-old minor could live on $4.50 a week for 6 weeks. 
Whilst there is some provision in this Bill for sickness benefits there is none for unemployment benefits. The unemployed adult will still receive $10 a week and bil wife will get an extra $7 a week. Here again the bread winner who has a spouse and is unemployed is expected to live on $17 a week. I wonder whether people really understand what this means to people who are committed to paying rent, paying off a house, paying land and water rates, and so on. I wonder if we really appreciate the dire situation which these people are in. I could go on but what is the use? The Government does not seem to take any notice. Year after year this unfortunate position remains unaltered. 1 would like to make a suggestion to the Minister which might ring a bell with him if he is prepared to listen.  Mr Minister,  may I engage your attention on this point? 
Never mind. In the case of people who are 65 years of age I see no reason why, if they want to and are able to get employment, they should not be allowed to do so and have full protection in that if they become sick or unemployed temporarily they can go on to sickness or unemployment benefits, whichever is appropriate. At the moment a person over 65 cannot attract the unemployment benefit; he is compelled to go on to the age pension. 
Last year a number of new Bills were introduced in a flurry in preparation for the last general elections. One was the States Grants (Home Care) Bill 1969. That Bill promised home care services for pensioners; capital subsidies for senior citizens centres; the provision of welfare officers in senior citizens centres; the provision of paramedical services by way of chiropody, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, speech therapy and so on. What has happened to those promises? The report on social services shows that scarcely any money was spent on these items for the very simple reason that this Government failed to gain from the various States the co-operation which is required under the Act. The Government has, in so many other spheres, brought in its legislation and then said to the States: 'There it is, now you come to the party as well'. This sort of thing is very good window dressing for election purposes but it does nothing for the unfortunate people whom it was meant to assist. 
I conclude my remarks by saying that in my view the object of a pension or a retiring allowance ought to be to provide a genuine retiring allowance for people so that they do not have to be dependent on handouts from government departments, State instrumentalities or private organisations. I think it would greatly help the self-respect of every retired person if they were to have a genuine retiring allowance to cover all kinds of expenses which they could normally expect to face. At the moment local government bodies, along with others, have to subsidise the inadequate pension this Government provides. What the Labor Party suggests in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley, and what was suggested at the last general election, is that we should be getting on with the job of introducing a national superannuation scheme in this country. The 5 main principles enunciated by Professor Downing are good enough for my money. First of al), he suggested that such a scheme ought to be related to the person's earning capacity during his working life and that when he retires the retirement allowance should not represent an abrupt downward change in his state of living. There should not be this anxiety about what will happen when these people go into retirement. 
The second principle he suggested is that the retirement allowance should be regularly updated according to the cost of living and that when people retire they should not have to worry that their retirement allowance will be eaten away by price inflation. The allowance should be regularly adjusted, not just according to the political temperament of the government of the day. Thirdly, he suggested that contributions to such a national superannuation fund ought to be assessed according to a person's earnings with the provision that people on very low incomes should have their contributions subsidised by the government. Fourthly, he suggested that this system could be commenced almost immediately with contributors paying for the current superannuees. Fifthly, he suggested that the system could be expanded to take account not only of retirement but also of temporary or permanent invalidity, widowhood or unemployment. It is a very sound scheme. I can only wonder why the Government does not have a look at it. It would be very sensible for this Parliament to set up a committee - an all-party committee, if you like - to look into all aspects of the establishment, as a matter of urgency, of a national superannuation scheme for the whole of Australia. It would enable people to retire in self respect and with the security of being protected during their retirement. 
I also wish to protest against the rather paltry increases in certain repatriation benefits which are provided in this Bill. I strongly support the amendment which was moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  I note that at a recent conference the Returned Services League advocated that the determination of repatriation benefits should be taken out of the realm of politics. I think the RSL's proposition is quite reasonable. It has suggested that if war pensions or, more properly, war compensation payments were tied to some kind of cost of living index we might well advance towards the objective of taking them beyond the realm of politics. The RSL suggested that a formula should be devised wherein compensation payments would be related to the minimum wage in the community. 
It seems a modest request to ask that, for instance, the totally and permanently incapacitated pension rate be related to the full minimum wage in the community. The RSL could have asked that the TPI rate be related to the average adult male wage, which would be a considerably higher amount. I understand that the average adultmalewageisoftheorderof$77a week as compared with the minimum wage of $42 a week. But TPI pensioners will not get even $42 a week. Under the provisions of this Bill they will receive $38 a week, which is $4 a week below the current minimum wage. The RSL asked for the 100 per cent general rate pension to be increased to $21 a week, which is one half the minimum wage, but it will remain at $12 a week with provision for a $6 a week special compensation allowance. It was also suggested that war widows should get 50 per cent which would place them on $21 a week but they got a paltry increase of 50c a week which put them on $15.50 a week. The allowance for the wife of a TPI pensioner has been unaltered for some years. The wife of a TPI pensioner now receives $4.05 per week. It was suggested by the TPI Association that this amount ought to be doubled but no increase was granted to them whatsoever. Another suggestion by the TPI Association was that the wife of a TPI ex-serviceman should receive repatriation hospital and medical treatment. This benefit will be denied many of these people under the terms of this Bill. I understand that about 35 per cent of the wives of TPI ex-servicemen will not receive such treatment. 
Reference has already been made to the paltry funeral grant which has, since the early 1940s, remained at $50. This is expected to cover the burial of an exserviceman although the fact is that today the most ordinary funeral costs at least $200. I wish to add my protest to that of the honourable member for Lang regarding the type of inquiry that the Minister for Repatriation proposes for repatriation procedures. It is suggested that a departmental inquiry will be undertaken to inquire into repatriation procedures. A departmental inquiry would amount to the organisation carrying out an internal investigation of itself. Surely this could not be nearly as effective as an inquiry by an independent tribunal such as that advocated by the Returned Services League, or a joint parliamentary inquiry as suggested by the Australian Labor Party. 
I noted in regard to the suggested departmental inquiry that there was no mention of the terms of reference including the notorious onus of proof provision or the automatic acceptance of cancer, 
The contention of the Labor Party has always been that it is virtually impossible to say that those conditions were not contracted, at least partially, by an exserviceman during his war service. I only hope - and this is a special request by RSL subbranches in my electorate - that such an inquiry irrespective of how it is constituted will make a special review of sections 24, 48 and 101 of the Repatriation Act which deal with the procedures for investigating eligibility for benefits on the basis of disabilities or death occasioned by war service. 
I am rather concerned about the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals. There appear to be considerable variations in the percentages of appeals being upheld or disallowed by the Tribunals. Honourable members may be aware that there are 4 Appeal Tribunals. They deal with more than 2,000 cases in any one year. It would appear that the samples are significantly large to ensure that the differences are not just accidental. In the year 1967-68 Tribunal No. 1 allowed 13 per cent of appeals, and it also allowed 13 per cent in 1968-69. That Tribunal was at least consistent in its decisions in terms of percentages. Tribunal No. 2 which investigated the same kind of appeals by ex-servicemen upheld only 11.9 per cent in 1967-68 and 9.7 per cent in 1968-69. Tribunal No. 3 upheld 22 per cent - almost twice as many as the other Tribunals- in 1967-68 and 22.4 per cent in 1968-69. Tribunal No. 4 upheld 15.8 per cent of the appeals in 1967-68 and 14.3 per cent in 1968-69. 
I realise that it is somewhat difficult to grasp the import of these figures, but at least they show that the Tribunals were consistent in the number of appeals that each upheld in those 2 years. However, there is a marked difference in the number of appeals allowed by the Tribunals. I wonder whether there is a good deal of subjectivity in the judgment of tribunals. If there is it might well be a matter for investigation by the inquiry that is about to be conducted. I have always thought that the means test on war pensions ought to be abolished. This has always been advocated by the Labor Party. It is ALP policy that war pensions, including the general and special rate, and family allowances, shall not be taken into consideration as income for the payment of service pensions or corresponding social service pensions. The Labor Party stated m its election policy last year that this proposal should be implemented within 3 years with substantial relief being granted in the first year. Many special rate pensioners - TPI pensioners - will not get the full benefit of the $2 increase in the pension which is provided for under this Bill simply because it will be deducted from their part-service pension. 
Finally, 1 want to mention a recent experience I had concerning an exserviceman. The gentleman was a World War II ex-serviceman. The case was brought to my attention by his brother. The exserviceman was suffering from acute cancer. It was spreading through his body. He had gone to the repatriation authorities seeking to have his disability accepted as being due to war causes. It was not accepted. He had to go to a general hospital. They could not maintain him in the general hospital, so his brother came to see me about whether something could be done. I asked whether an appeal had been made to the repatriation authorities to have this man accepted as being eligible for a service pension subject to the means test. The man obviously had no income and he had very few assets, yet it had never been suggested to him by the repatriation authorities, when he did not get a war pension, that he might apply for a service pension. I made a good many representations on his behalf and ultimately he was accepted as being eligible for a service pension and was transferred, belatedly, into the Concord Repatriation Hospital. 
So far so good. It was bad enough that he had been delayed to this extent. But after he had been in the hospital about  2i  weeks the doctors of the Repatriation Hospital said that he was well enough to be. transferred to a private convalescent home. I heard one of my colleagues referring to this sort of thing earlier. In this case it was insisted that he was well enough to be transferred, despite the fact that it was acknowledged that he was in a state of advanced carcinoma of the prostate with metastases. It was expected that he could die at any time. This is not the first incident of this kind that has come to my notice. It was insisted by the Repatriation Hospital authorities that he be transferred to a private convalescent home. 
His relatives protested vigorously, but the social worker insisted that the doctors message was that he was well enough and that there was no reason why he should not be transferred after only 24 weeks in the Repatriation Hospital. By the time the ambulance reached the convalescent home, bis condition was such that the doctor and nurses at that home registered utter amazement and dismay that a man in his condition should have been so transferred. That man died 4 days later. This is not good enough. I like to think that I have had very good relations with the Repatriation Department generally, but just lately a sequence of this kind of case has come to my notice. I think they ought to be looked into. 
I do not want to trespass on the time of other honourable members who want to speak, so I will curtail my remarks on this subject. I wish the Minister had made his statement about the setting up of an inquiry in this Parliament, not to some outside body. He could have done that at a later stage if he wanted to. I wish he had made a statement about the kind of inquiry he envisages. At least then we might have been able to debate it in this House and we might have been able to make suggestions about its terms of reference. I hope in the future that he will follow the example of some of his colleagues and make any announcement of that kind here in the Parliament. This is the place where it ought to be made in the first instance. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is he aware that frozen vegetable manufacturers have formed an association called the Commonwealth Quick Frozen Vegetable and Fruit Producers Association? Is he aware that this Association hopes to stabilise conditions in the industry by doubling the price of frozen vegetables throughout Australia? Is he aware also that vegetable growers, forced into smaller acreages in the coming season, will get nothing out of this new price fixing agreement? Will the Minister consult with the Attorney-General with a view to having the Association's restrictive agreement examined by the Commissioner of Trade Practices? 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  at the outset of his remarks suggested that members of the Opposition were selling their case short by not waiting to see the proposed legislation on law and order. Of course, the Attorney-General would not want to be reminded that  Mr Askin,  the Liberal 
Premier of New South Wales, at the polls last Saturday specifically asked the electors in the State electorate of Georges River, which is substantially in my Federal electorate of Barton, for a mandate to bring in an unseen law and order Bill. He got his answer on that matter. This Government has also postured on the matter because of the Federal by-election in Victoria last Saturday. I think the public at large would be much more convinced that the Government was really doing something about law and order if they could go away from their homes without the current well-justified fear that their homes will be burgled in their absence, if they could go out driving at week-ends without the overwhelming fear of becoming further victims of the lawlessness on our highways, if they were not so impressed with the bank robberies that take place almost daily, the shops that are burgled, the cars that are stolen, the hold-ups at railway stations and Totalisator Agency Board offices, the breaking into of schools and so on. The people would be much more impressed if they had that kind of protection from their governments. It is not my intention however to speak further on those matters today. 
I want to raise on behalf of a number of ex-servicemen the matter of extending the appeals system to ex-servicemen who were convicted by courts-martial prior to the establishment of the appeals court in 1955. At present the appeals court deals only with convictions dating from 1957 onwards. There are still many exservicemen, particularly those who served in World War II, who feel aggrieved by the wrongful convictions they sustained in what they felt were unfair trials. They have spent many years in some cases to my knowledge in trying to clear their names. It is not that their convictions have necessarily interfered with their progress in civil life; it is just that they feel a smear has been made on their personal characters. They are very anxious to vindicate their innocence. When we think of it, war time administration of law in the Services could hardly have been expected to be the acme of legal perfection. If we remember the situation at that time, there were likely to have been injustices and miscarriages of justice. Many of the persons who were trying these men were inexperienced in the law. The war and its whole environment engendered  a  certain amount of emotion and prejudice which could have only harmed the functioning of many a courtmartial. The pressure of events during war time surely would have mitigated against justice in many cases. Possibly the adjudicators were unconsciously  -  I say that very advisedly - less careful, knowing that there was no right of appeal against their determinations. 
Those affected in a vast number of instances were young men. They were men of immaturity. They needed protection. Yet in many cases they have become victims of the law as then provided. I would suggest in this situation that there were varying notions of what constituted good discipline in the Services, just as notions on this subject today vary. Therefore there could have been a good deal of subjectivity which crept into the administration of the law. Members of courts-martial did not necessarily need legal training. Lawyers were provided where possible as prosecutors and for the defence. In the debate which took place in this House in 1955 when the appeals system was set up there was testimony by wartime Defence Ministers that they had considerable doubts about many of the convictions of courtsmartial, particularly during World War IT. I remember one member of the Government of that time, who has since died, relating an incident involving a British soldier. He testified to the House that this British soldier had been charged with desertion. Actually, he had not deserted. He simply lost touch with his unit and joined another unit. In the course of operating with that other unit he won the Distinguished Conduct Medal for bravery in the face of the enemy. Ultimately he was discovered by his own unit and. believe it or not. he was charged and convicted despite the recognition he had enjoyed from the Sovereign. 
Appeal courts as they now exist are constituted of members who are highly qualified in the law. They are experienced legal men. There is need for a retrospective application of an appeal right. This has been indicated in recent times by the present legislation and the present procedures. Might I remind the House of a very significant recent case in which a man who had been convicted by court martial of having killed a lieutenant in Vietnam was subsequently vindicated by a court martial. 
I refer to the case of Gunner Leonard Edward Newman, aged 22, of Brisbane who was convicted for the manslaughter of Lieutenant Robert Birse. Newman had been sentenced to 5 years gaol and had been discharged from the Army. He was prosecuted because it was alleged he had thrown a grenade into Birse's tent on 10th December 1967. Apparently the important thing was not that he was convicted and ultimately cleared by the appeal tribunal but that the appeal tribunal found that the court martial had: 
. relied upon suspicion, conjecture and guesses at the truth to confirm not their judgment but their prejudice. 
Even today courts-martial can be guilty of this kind of thing. There is need for a proper legal tribunal to investigate this. 
Then there was the case of Captain Clarence Rule, also a Vietnam veteran, who was charged on 5 counts. He was cleared but, in what I think most people would interpret as a sense of vindictiveness by the Army authorities, he was pursued with 3 further charges. Ultimately, I suggest, the Government brought pressure to bear and the 3 charges were dismissed without the cases being heard. The bringing into existence in 1955 of an appeal tribunal indicates the need, even at this belated state, to extend the opportunity for appeals back to those men. who served in earlier times to give them an opportunity to clear their names. I hope that the AttorneyGeneral and the Government will, even at this belated stage, give some consideration to the extending back of appeal rights to those aggrieved ex-servicemen. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Proposed expenditure $72,823,000. 
 1 rise to support the Opposition's amendment to the proposed vote for the Department of Education and Science. The amendment outlines many deficiencies in the Australian educational scene. It would be hard. I suppose, to indicate which would be the more serious. For my own purposes I think that the matter of the supply of qualified teachers and the assistance given to students would be among the most important items in our educational programme. Looking at the matter of teachers for a start, I think the position is most chaotic in our secondary schools. 1 can only describe the position as I know it as desperate. Unfortunately the prospects are that the position will get worse rather than better in the immediate future. Let us examine the situation. Informed sources indicate that 11,500 of Australia's 90,000 government school teachers will resign this year. That is about 12ยฃ per cent of the total government teaching force is expected to resign this year on the indications of past recent performance. Professional teacher organisations claim that the percentage is as high as 16 per cent and they expect that it might become as high as 20 per cent by next year. That would be equivalent to a complete turnover of teaching staff in each 5 years. 
The rate of resignations is said to be almost double that of a few years ago. Teachers of all kinds in secondary schools are in short supply but the shortage is most acute in the key subjects of science, mathematics and English. Many highly qualified teachers are leaving to enter industry, commerce and tertiary education. Teaching periods in these vital subjects are being reduced in New South Wales. How lopsided our programme is in respect of science is well exemplified or well referred to in a report in the 'Australian' of 9th 
June of this year where it quotes from an editorial of the 'Australian Science Teachers Journal'. This editorial, in part, said: 
Millions of dollars worth of laboratories, books and curricula represent a great boost to science education (despite some unanswered questions about their effectiveness). But the foundations of these very laboratories might goon become tombstones of science education when the laboratories are bereft of science teachers. 
I am sorry that I have not time to quote more of what this particular journal said. We have spent a lot of money in providing science laboratories and science equipment but we have never in our history been so short of science teachers to make use of those facilities. 
Teachers are being imported from overseas. Many are unable even to speak English fluently. This is not their fault, lt seems we are reaching the point where anyone who says that he can teach will be employed to bolster up the collapsing educational system. Many schools have suffered a change of subject teacher several times during the one year. In other cases classes have been broken up and reallocated because teachers have been withdrawn from the staff. Often this causes acute disruption involving changes of text books for study and disruption because of different teachers proceeding through a syllabus in different sequence. This applies even in examination classes such as the fourth form and the sixth form in New South Wales. Many teachers have not the qualifications to teach the subjects they are required to teach. It is not their wish that they should be teaching these subjects. But by compulsion they must do so. 
In New South Wales, the Minister for Education admits that there are 884 teachers, with no professional training, who are employed in secondary schools in the State. The shortage of teachers and large classes have meant little available individual attention to students with problems and, accordingly, inequalities of achievement are the obvious result. What action has the Commonwealth taken? Well, admittedly, since 1967, the Commonwealth has been giving some direct help towards meeting the teacher crisis. Unfortunately, the assistance, inadequate as it is, has come far too late for the fast swelling ranks of secondary students. They and their successors for years to come will pay the enormous penalty - and so will the nation incidently - for the blank refusal by a succession of Liberal Party-Country Party federal governments to see the obviously approaching crisis years before it came. The Government was warned - by teachers, by parents' organisations, by the Committee on the Future of Tertiary Education in Australia, commonly known as the Martin Committee, which the Government itself established in 1961, and not least by the persistent campaign of the Australian Labor Party from the 1950s onwards. 
The Commonwealth has provided assistance but it is woefully inadequate. Teachers college capital grants will help as also will training assistance through some of the colleges of advanced education. But let us not fool ourselves: Some of the new teachers colleges are mainly replacing old obsolete buildings. I am quite conscious, for instance, that in my own State this is so in the case of the Balmain Teachers College and the Newcastle Teachers College. The Macquarie College of Advanced Education at Bathurst will absorb the former Bathurst Teachers College. The proposed College of Advanced Education at Wagga likewise will absorb the already existing teachers college in that city. Many of the older established teachers colleges - and 1 used to be a lecturer in one of them in Sydney - are shockingly inadequate in terms of facilities and maintenance. For example, they have not even the modern science laboratories that the Commonwealth is providing for secondary schools. People who are supposed to be training teachers lack the same facilities which exist even in some of our privileged secondary schools. Colleges, such as that at Wool.longong receive no Commonwealth assistance for expansion - grants are made for new colleges only - and, as a result, students are being carted around the city to al! kinds of makeshift buildings in order *n hold lectures. 
Ironically, in the midst of this desperate teacher shortage in all States - and I am very conscious of it in my own State of New South Wales - there has had to be a rejection of hundreds, even running into a couple of thousand I understand, of applications for teachers scholarships by well qualified students each year in New South Wales. Youngsters who earnestly wish to become teachers have not the opportunity to do so. Yet, we are scouring the world trying to recruit teachers. This is not to say that 1 am against bringing in new blood and new ideas from other States and from other countries. This is a measure of our desperation at the moment. I feel certain that many of those who take up the relatively scarce teachers college scholarships do so with no real intention of making a career in teaching. I have jolly good evidence to that effect. Because the Commonwealth Government provides such an inadequate number of university and tertiary scholarships, many students, having failed to gain such a scholarship, seek and accept a teachers college scholarship tenable at a university. They obtain a degree in economics, science or commerce and, having done so, very shortly afterwards they quit the teaching service and enter into more lucrative fields in industry or higher education. 
I turn now to another matter of gross inequality in the educational field. 1 refer to some of the Commonwealth scholarships. The Budget for 1970-71 provides for an increase of 1,000 Commonwealth university scholarships - open entrance scholarships - but no increase has taken place in the 2.500 advanced education awards. I understand that in 1969 only 6 per cent of students at colleges of advanced education held scholarships as against 34 per cent of students holding scholarships at universities. I am more concerned though with Commonwealth secondary and technical scholarships. The Commonwealth secondary scholarship scheme was partially introduced in 1965. It was a reaction to the election promise of the Australian Labor Party in 1963 to provide secondary school scholarships to every student in the last 2 years of his or her secondary education. The Government nowhere near matched that promise. It promised a flat 10,000 scholarships to be awarded on merit. From 1966, the number of such scholarships has remained the same, that is, 10,000 per annum. Only 10,000 of these scholarships have been awarded each year. 
Since 1966, a large increase has occurred in the number of applicants but the Government cynically has resisted making any increase in the number of scholarships. In 1966, the number of applicants for these scholarships was 61,619. In 1969, the number of applicants had crept up to 83,821. That is, there were 22,202 more applicants. That increased number of applicants had only the same number of scholarships to compete for in 1969 as was available in 1966. This has meant that the percentage of successful applicants has fallen from a meagre 16.2 per cent to 12 per cent by 1969. The latest advice from the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is that of the students enrolled in the third last year of secondary schooling in 1969 - namely, in my State, for instance, those who are in fourth form - the percentages of those who in fact did achieve a Commonwealth secondary scholarships in 1970 were in government schools, 4.4 per cent; in Catholic schools, 6.9 per cent; and in other nongovernment schools, 15.6 per cent. Overall, 5.8 per cent of students at all schools achieved a scholarship. 
What can we conclude from these available statistics? First, proportionately, there are three and a half times more students at other non-government schools who receive these Commonwealth scholarships as against students enrolled in government schools. Overall, about 94 applicants out of every 100 miss out on a scholarship. Because no means test is applied to scholarships most of the scarce scholarships are going to the children of wealthy parents who can provide much greater assistance, extra tuition and a more stimulating home background. The result is that many of the students in government and Catholic schools particularly must drop out in the senior years and many miss out on scholarships at the tertiary level into the bargain. They cannot stay at school long enough to qualify for them. This kind of situation moved Professor M. E. Harvey of Melbourne, in May this year, to express lament that a great deal of potential talent in Australia was being wasted - this is the seriousness of it; it is not only an injustice to the students themselves but also is an injustice because of what it is doing to Australia and the development of its economy not to say its cultural and social wellbeing - because many children did not have the chance to go on to tertiary education. Analysis showed that 49 per cent of university students came from only 23 per cent of Australia's parents, usually professional people. This means chat fewer than a quarter of Australia's parents provide almost half the students in our universities. Well might it be said that the other 77 per cent of Australia's parents should be capable of supplying a much bigger share of able students who should continue on to tertiary education. 
I turn to Commonwealth technical scholarships. These scholarships were first awarded in 1965, when 2,500 were made available. In 1970, we find that the number available has not changed. In 1966, when the scheme was fully in operation, there were 10,916 applicants. In 1970, the number of applicants has risen to 27,919. In other words, there has been a trebling in the number of applicants for Commonwealth technical scholarships between 1966 and 1970 and yet the number of scholarships available remained the same. In 1966, 17.2 per cent of applicants were successful in obtaining technical scholarships. In 1970, only 9.5 per cent were successful. That means that approximately 9 out of every 10 applicants for a Commonwealth technical scholarship bad to miss out. Yet honourable members are lectured in this chamber about the need to increase Australian productivity. 
I am sorry that I will not have time to mention another matter fully, and that is the matter of science laboratories and equipment in secondary schools, another scandalous example of inequality of provisions. From 1964-65 to 1966-67, the Commonwealth made grants available for science laboratories and equipment in both government and non-government secondary schools. The annual amount provided was S9.9m. The distribution - this is what I wish to point to - between government and non-government schools was on the basis of their respective school populations as at August 1963. This meant that expenditure per head was the same for both school systems. 
However, in 1967-68 the Commonwealth doubled the provision for non-government schools but left the grant for government schools as it was. In 1967-68 the science laboratory grants was $63.50 for every child in a non-government secondary school and $29.70 for each child in a government secondary school. Thus the student attending a government secondary school has had spent on him only 46.7 per cent - less than one half - of what has been spent on a non-government school student. Particularly does this apply to some of the wealthier schools and to children of the wealthiest people in our community. This trend of more limited assistance to government owned schools has continued in each year since 1967-68. In fact, it has worsened for the simple reason that over the last decade the proportion of students attending government secondary schools has been increasing whilst the proportion of those attending non-government schools has been decreasing. I am not against State aid, but I believe in the Labour Party's policy that aid ought to be given according to need and priorities. 
I rise to support the Bill. This Bill provides 3 main provisions. Firstly it provides a subsidy towards the capital costs of accommodation for disabled persons entering normal industry; secondly it provides payment of a training fee to the organisation where a person graduates from that institution to normal employment; and thirdly it provides a subsidy towards the salaries of certain sheltered workshop staff who are involved in providing specialised services over and above those required in normal employment. Whilst I support the Bill, I would like to make a few comments which I think would have made this a better Bill. 
First of all, 1 would have liked to see a systematic survey of the requirements of this kind of facility. The lack of statistical information regarding numbers of disabled persons in Australia is possibly the greatest prevention against a concentrated attack at the present time. We need some statistical proof of what our commitments ought to be. 1 understand that experts in the field have suggested that Australia probably is ho different from most other Western countries in Chat between 7 per cent and 10 per cent of the total population would come within the category of being disabled. With increased longevity, medical advances and permanent traumatic injuries resulting from road, industrial and domestic accidents, a figure of 7 per cent cannot be expected to decrease. Whilst I applaud the Bill, I think we have to take note that it is only a start along the road. How many people were employed in sheltered workshops up until June this year? According to the latest report of the Department of Social Services the number was 4,206. This represents an increase of 870 over the figure of 3.336 as at June 1969. On the other hand, the number of invalid pensioners has reached 133,766 which represents an increase of 12,022 on the previous year's figure. So whilst the number of invalid pensioners has gone up by just over 12,000 the number in sheltered workshops has gone up by only 870. In other words, 7.3 per cent of the increase in the number of invalid pensioners were taken in sheltered workshops in the year in question. We might well ask: What of the other 92.7 per cent of the increase in the number of invalid pensioners during the year? Where are they? How many of them could benefit from sheltered workshop accommodation? 
If we take 133,766 as the total number of invalid pensioners as at June of this year, . the number in sheltered workshops represents only 3.1 per cent of that total. Having thought that this represents a rather low proportion, by picking up another article 1 was then reminded that these figures did not include, for instance, all of the ex-servicemen who receive war pensions or all of the service pensioners who receive a service pension by virtue of their invalidity - the equivalent of the invalid pension under the social service provisions. -So whilst we can congratulate the Government on the steps that it has taken, there is still a long way to go. 1 turn to one other aspect ot the sheltered workshops legislation, and that is the provision, until now, of residential units to accommodate persons who were employed in sheltered workshops. But under this Bill these residential units also will accommodate persons who are disabled but who are capable of performing normal employment. During the past year, 1969-70, only one residential unit was provided in New South Wales, which attracted a Commonwealth subsidy of ยง36,186. Victoria did not provide one residential unit during the last 12 months. There was a subsidy of $16,741, but this was an adjustment on a previous grant. Queensland provided only one residential unit during that 12 months period. South Australia provided none. Western Australia provided 2 residential units which attracted a total Commonwealth subsidy of $82,001. Tasmania built no residential units under the Commonwealth legislation. So in all, during the past 12 months only 4 residential units to accommodate people who are employed in sheltered workshops were built in the whole of the Commonwealth. These residential units attracted a total Commonwealth subsidy of $162,088. 
So far there has not been a great demand lor this kind of accommodation. The new provisions which the Minister far Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has introduced to cover people who are not necessarily employed in sheltered workshops might extend the demand for this kind of accommodation. Admittedly, in the two previous years the demand for this kind of accommodation was somewhat greater. In  I96S-69  only 3 residential units were built in the whole of the Commonwealth, but in 1967-68 5 residential units were built. So whilst we applaud the payment of the subsidy, we have to recognise that this legislation does not necessarily provide for  :i  great many people. As a matter of fact, the only figures which I have been able to obtain relate to the number of units built and their cost. There is no intimation of how many people were or could be accommodated in these units. I think that this kind of statistical information could be helpful to the Parliament. 
Tonight I spoke to one of the officials of a sheltered workshop organisation in my electorate. He raised with me the question as to what sheltered workshops are approved. I must confess that I was not clearly aware before as to how many sheltered workshops are not approved under Commonwealth and, for that matter, State legislation. I have not seen this in writing anywhere, but I was told tonight - and the Minister can confirm it or otherwise - that until a sheltered workshop is able to pay at least 51 per cent of its trainees, as they are sometimes described, in the workshop at least $4 a week it cannot receive recognition or approval as a sheltered workshop. I do not know whether this is the way in which the scheme is administered. As I say, I have not seen this in any provision. 
But apparently it is nearly correct. It confirms what I have been told, that a good many sheltered workshops - I think the figure of 65 was mentioned - do not receive any of these benefits. I cannot help but feel that this is a tremendous pity. There is a real dearth here. I am conscious of the Southaven sheltered workshop at Kogarah and of the Sunnyhurst sheltered workshop at Hurstville in my electorate. I am almost sure that neither of those sheltered workshops would qualify for Commonwealth assistance because the people in them are mainly mentally handicapped and physically handicapped. Their level of productivity is extremely low. Therefore, I believe that the workshops would be hard pressed to pay these people even $1 a week, let alone $4 a week. My informant also told me that a number of the sheltered workshops run by the organisation known as Aid Retarded Persons - commonly called ARP- do not qualify for assistance, for the same reason. 
I understand that when the legislation providing for capital subsidy was introduced, the organisations had said that they would pay at least $4 a week to the persons who were going to be employed in the sheltered workshops. In this way they would receive the capital subsidy of $2 for SI. These organisations received the subsidy, but in many cases they were not able to continue to meet the commitment of paying $4 a week to the persons em ployed in the workshops. On the other hand, some existing sheltered workshops which wanted to extend were not able to pay the persons working in them $4 a week, so they did not receive the subsidy. They feel rather left out. as one could well imagine. 
I am well aware that people who assist in these non-profit - if I can use that term - workshops are helping to keep them running by doing the sorts of things which my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  mentioned. They conduct raffles. We also have what is in my view the unfortunate sight of disabled people sitting in wheel chairs at shopping centres with a begging box in their hands asking for donations. I hope that we can overcome this situation very soon. Most of this charity fund raising activity has to be carried on by the parents and near relatives of the disabled persons. I hope they will not mind my putting it this way, but I think that they have a big enough social burden to bear without having the further imposition placed upon them of having to go out to help to raise money to pay the wages of the supervisors who help to provide not so much employment - employment is the means to a social end - but a social outlet for their disabled children. 
Whilst I applaud what has been done in the Bill. I indicate that I hope the Minister can reach out into the field a little more and cover all these organisations. I think that this would be a worthwhile contribution, even if it only relieves the parents. The Government could provide these people with a recreation centre if we do not want to call it a sheltered workshop. But it is a sheltered workshop because it is run on some kind of commercial basis within the limitations of the people involved. In speaking to some of the other people who are involved in running sheltered workshops I was informed that they are grateful that there has been what they regard as a breakthrough in providing assistance towards meeting running costs. I think some would have been happier if, instead of being given the kind of subsidy that is provided in the Bill, they had received what I think a number of them have asked for, and that is assistance based on a per head per week subsidy. I believe that South Australia provides a per capita subsidy. Victoria provides a per capita subsidy towards the running costs of institutions for mentally retarded persons. Running costs, as the Minister will recognise, are easily the biggest burden. They are a continuing burden. Capital costs are subsidised at a particular point of time. Running costs include the wages of supervisors, social workers where the institutions can afford to employ them, employment officers and transport workers to take these disabled people to and from their homes. Alt these things are costly items. 
I am told that at least for the immediate future there is not likely to be much use made of the $500 subsidy which is paid to organisations in respect of persons who graduate to the work force. I believe that the demand for employment from industry and commerce has been so great that the cream of the employees in sheltered workshops has already been taken off and it will be a while before it is replaced. So not many sheltered workshops can look forward to receiving the $500 subsidy in the immediate future. It was mentioned to me that it would be a good idea if there was a co-ordinated system of referral of persons to sheltered workshops. I think that the Minister recognises this fact. Too many persons are left to rot at home for a year, 2 years or even longer before they even come under the notice of or are referred to a sheltered workshop. The desirability of these people soon after an accident, a heart attack or whatever it may be being referred to a sheltered workshop again was something referred to by the honourable member for Oxley. The sooner this is done the better for them and for their own morale. 
It has been represented to me also that there ought to be an increase in incentives to draw people into sheltered workshops. I know that concessions have been granted over the years concerning the means test. But I believe that people in a sheltered workshop get nothing extra in that regard than do other invalid persons working in some other employment or even working at home employment. They are allowed their $10 per week provided that they have assets of no more than $400. I am talking about the position of the single person. I believe that the average earnings in workshops arc approximately $5.25 per week. That is the average for a 5-day week. This is hardly a strong incentive, it has been represented to me, to draw people into sheltered workshops for income earning purposes. 
Let me point out what has been recommended. I saw this reported by  Mr Allan  Hayes in the 'Australian Financial Review* of 10th July this year.  Mr Hayes  is one of the persons for whom I have great respect. I think the Minister for Social Services has too.  Mr Hayes  suggested that the means test might be extended to $20 for those persons who are able to extend themselves in employment. We must realise that quite a variety of people enter sheltered workshops. Many of them are persons who have been in full time employment and who have suffered a heart attack or some other kind of disability which has reduced their work capacity. They still retain their skills other than the amount of output they can produce. Therefore, they are capable of reaching $20 per week. It would certainly be an incentive to them to go to places like sheltered workshops. I believe that 90 per cent of those who go into workshops stay in workshops. They are not the ones who graduate into normal employment. 
I can see some administrative problems arising within the Bill particularly the provision whereby the subsidy is to go to those services over and above those required in normal employment. Some of the representatives of workshops have said to me that this might be a job of evaluating how much of a person's services is over and above what that person might contribute in a normal employment position. I refer especially to the position of supervisor. It might be desirable that a supervisor in a sheltered workshop care for half the number of persons that he would have in a normal factory or commercial establishment. Some system has to be worked out. 1 think the sheltered workshops would like to see some overall subsidy for all the staff involved on a sort of flat rate basis rather than this subjective and rather painstaking labourious task of evaluating in the way that I have suggested. 
I have mentioned before the need for a co-ordinated plan while ever we need to rely on voluntary services. I do not decry them. I applaud them. But we cannot rely on them totally. There will be overlaps. 
The sheltered workshop representatives - these different organisations - acknowledge this fact. Facilities do overlap in some areas but in many other areas no services at all are provided. It is a matter of being able to induce people to undertake such a burden. A co-ordinated plan needs to be introduced for the development of workshops in the community. Then there is the matter to which I have made some reference of steering people into sheltered workshops. Here again, the supply of social workers, probably attached to local government bodies or to regional social services offices, could do a great deal in this respect. I believe that in Great Britain there is a non-compulsory disabled persons register. Other countries have some kind of survey by which they keep a tab on the number of persons of this kind in the community. 
I do wish to make reference before 1 conclude to the business of providing employment for sheltered workshops. At the moment the supply of jobs or tasks is quite all right. But even the best administered sheltered workshops do have their slumps and it is a problem for them to carry on. It has been recommended strongly that the Commonwealth Public Service or the Public Services of the various States could take more responsibility in this regard than they do. The Commonwealth Public Service is pretty demanding as far as physical fitness is concerned. It is pretty quick to retire a man or to reduce his status if he does not measure up to its standards. Yet we make pleas to private employers to take on physically handicapped people. I think that our own Public Service and our own statutory bodies might give the lead in this respect. It is notable that in Great Britain again all employers with 20 employees or more are obliged under the relevant Act to take at least 3 per cent of their staff from disabled persons where such persons are available. There are opportunities to seek exemption from the operation of this law in special kinds of employment. But this provision is there. 
I do not think that I need say any more. 1 have indicated some of the areas at which I think the Minister might have another look. What I have presented is not all my own ideas. Some of them are my own. As I indicated some have been repre sented to me by a number of hard working people in the field. I am grateful for what is included in the Bill. I wish the Minister well in developing these provisions. 
I ask the Minister for Education and Science what action he is currently taking in regard to the requests and recommendations of the nation-wide survey of educational needs carried out by the Australian Educational Council with the encouragement and support of the Commonwealth. Did the report refer to projects of an extremely urgent nature and others of an urgent nature? Has the Government noted the frank confessions of the States that the recently increased Commonwealth grants still leave them quite incapable of meeting many of the most urgent needs in pre-school, primary, secondary and teacher education and teacher retention? Finally, just how soon can we expect an announcement of the Government's intentions in respect of this report which so vitally affects the hopes, aspirations and opportunities of hundreds of thousands of young Australians? 
The Minister might recall that last night during the second reading debate I raised the question of what were approved as against non-approved sheltered workshops. I mentioned what I understood to be the criteria which are applied. The Minister indicated that what I had said was not quite correct. Could he tell me what is the difference? I would be glad to know. I suggest that in legislation of this kind it is very nearly impossible to avoid the situation in which a lot of the interpretation is left to the administration. 
I refer to sub-section (c) of proposed new section  16b  which leaves it to the Director-General to be satisfied that the training given to the disabled person during the period of sheltered employment contributed significantly to the ability of that person to engage in normal employment. It seems to me that this is a matter which could lead to a good deal of subjective judgment. I know that we already have some difficulties in determining who is and who is not an invalid pensioner. In addition, sub-section  (2.)  of proposed new section  16b  states: 
The Director-General may, by reason of special circumstances, direct that two or more periods of normal employment of  a  person and the intervals that separate them shall, together, be treated, for the purposes of paragraph  (a)  of the last preceding sub-section, as one continuous period of normal employment. 
This provision refers to the position where a person graduates from sheltered workshop employment to normal employment. If they remain in normal employment for a period of  12  months, the organisation or the workshop becomes eligible for a grant  of $500.  Here again,  it  is left  to  the administration  to  determine whether  a  number  of  smaller periods will be equivalent to  a  straight period  of 12  months. 
I turn now  to  clause  7  and proposed new Part IVB, proposed new clause  16d,  sub-clause (b) which reads: the Director-General is satisfied that some or all of  the  services provided, or to be provided, by the person would not be required if the employment in connection with which those services are provided, or to be provided, were not  sheltered  employment. 
This provision refers to the situation where  a  subsidy is paid to a sheltered workshop for specialist officers who are employed to an extent over and above what would be required in a normal place of employment. I am thinking here - they are itemised somewhere - of supervisory, medical, counselling or other kinds  of  specialist services connected with the employment of disabled persons. I am wondering how this will be done. I raised this matter last night. How are we to evaluate that part of a supervisory service which  would  be over and above what would be required in a normal employment position? I did suggest last night that it may have been easier administratively and less subjective in judgment if an overall subsidy was provided for workshop staff rather than by this provision putting ourselves in this rather difficult position of trying to make judgments about the relative part of a person's employment that is attributable to normal employment and another part that is attributable to the special circumstances of his employment. I am concerned particularly though about the definition which I raised in the first instance. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional' sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next live years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal -  finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to. include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. ' 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that, emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the fact that the Minister for Labour and National Service was able to estimate the likely costs and inflationary effects of wage and salary increases arising from the possible introduction of a shorter working week, can the Treasurer with equal facility and precision inform the Parliament of the cost and likely extent of inflationary effects of the following 6 factors: Current record interest charges; monopolistic private price fixing and collusive tendering arrangements; unbridled land and share speculation; record profiteering, particularly in basic industries; budgetary increases in fuel taxes and postal and telegraphic charges; and the unproductive millions of dollars spent outside the country on such defence items as the Fill? 

 - Mr Acting Speaker-- 

Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed, to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science upon notice: 
What was the (a) total amount and (b) amount per head of secondary students enrolled, allocated to (i) government, (ii) Catholic and (iti) other private schools under the (A) States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act and (B) States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act in each year since the inception of each scheme. 
What were the reasons for any marked changes in the allocations. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Of the maximum sum of $5m made available by the Commonwealth to the States under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 for the period up to 30th June 1970, what expenditure has been (a) approved and (b) expended (i) in total and (ii) in each of the States. 
-My only regret is that the recommendations of the Wiltshire report are to be implemented in such a piecemeal way - that is assuming that they are implemented in their entirety in any case. The Wiltshire Committee which looked into the status of colleges of advanced education and the kind of awards that should be given with respect to their courses, reported to the Federal Minister for Education and Science in June 1969. In September of last year, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  convened a meeting with the State Ministers responsible for education to consider these recommendations. Here we are, over 12 months later, and we do not seem to be any nearer resolution of these matters than when they started. I have seen Press releases from time to time indicating some anxiety on the part of the States to achieve some kind of resolution of the problem but nothing apparently is yet in sight to this end. 
I cannot help feeling that the old, old problem of Commonwealth-State jealousy comes into this situation. Some of the States have misgivings about what the status of the national accrediting committee will be and what sovereignty it will take away from the States in respect of their own colleges of advanced education. So, we see by this Bill that the position has been reached where the Commonwealth has had to go it alone to introduce legislation to set up in the Australian Capital Territory a college of advanced education with the right to confer degrees in respect of some courses. 1 can only think of what must be the perplexity and concern of students in colleges of advanced education up and down this country who are wondering what kind of an award they will receive at the completion of their courses. Will they receive a degree, a diploma or some other kind of certificate? This is a matter that I would like to see resolved soon. 1 hope that the States will be big enough to come to an early decision on the matter. 
Naturally too in this same context I regret - and I  notice a good many other critics do - that a national co-ordinating committee regarding tertiary education in general has not been established. We remember that the Committee of Inquiry into the Future of Tertiary Education in Australia, commonly known as the Martin Committee, recommended this very thing back in 1965 when it submitted its report. We are still not sure what is the province of a college of advanced education visavis a university today. I only hope that the Government may still get around to establishing some kind of national tertiary commission which will try to co-ordinate the development and to clarify the status of such tertiary institutions as universities, colleges of advanced education and, where they exist as separate bodies, teachers' colleges. 
At the moment, there seems &lt;o be a certain amount of experimentalism as far as teacher education is concerned. In some cases teachers colleges are being absorbed into colleges of advanced education. In other cases they are still remaining within education departments. There are other propositions that teachers' colleges should become some degree granting institutions in their own right. A fourth proposition is that they may be attached to universities and benefit by the status of the universities in their particular awards. All these are things to be sorted out. I notice that at a meeting at the University of New England late last year at which the National Union of Australian University Students was represented, persons spoke out about this absence of some kind of co-ordination or some kind of clarification of the province of these educational bodies. 
I wish 10 quote from 'Vestes 1970' an article by Professor John Wood of the 
University of New South Wales which states: 
For higher education the Conference recommended the establishment of a single Higher Education Commission to replace the two existing Commonwealth committees. This was not meant to imply that they had been ineffective; on the contrary, the opinion was that as agencies concerned with sectional planning they had done an excellent job. But sectional planning it had been and it was believed that a co-ordinated and integrated system was not possible with such a structure. 
The article goes on to indicate the necessity for some such national co-ordinating tertiary body. 
To me it seems even more urgent now than ever it was. It seemed that we had this clear in our minds when a former Prime Minister rose in this place and indicated what he believed was the province on the one hand of a university and on the other hand a college of advanced education. This dichotomy, this division of labour between the two bodies is not nearly so obvious now. Certainly,  Sir Robert  Menzies did not envisage colleges of advanced education as being degree granting bodies - not in the immediate future, for sure. So, we have come a distance but we still seem to be rather up in the air about the whole matter.  1  would like to see some high powered national body sort out what we wish colleges of advanced education to be and what we want them to do as distinct, say, from universities or determine whether they should in fact be much more closely related than they have been to universities at this time. These are matters that still need to be resolved. 
I come to the other matter of the representation on the controlling body at the College. I notice that the Wark Committee recommended a form of government for colleges in which it asked that there should be provided: 'Adequate procedures for the voice of the community and the voice of the staff to be heard on major policy matters'. Probably, I would go a little bit further than a good many others would, in asking that there should be a democratisation - if I can mention that rather clumsy and over-used word - of the controlling bodies at such institutions. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  made quite an eloquent plea that members of both houses of the Parliament should have some distinctive contribution to make to such bodies. I could think of other people in the community who also could make contributions and who are not represented directly on this body. When I look at some of the university controlling bodies, I see representatives of industry and commerce on them. These are representatives from both the employers and the employees. As it was represented to us in their inauguration, colleges of advanced education had not an exclusive but a particular role to play in catering for the needs of commerce and industry. I would have been the first to resent that they should bond themselves so very deliberately in catering for such bodies. But I do think that there is a place for the community to become involved in our educational institutions. Members of our community should not be precluded because a college of advanced education happens to be a higher educational institution. 
I had a good deal of difficulty, as a matter of fact, in discovering what was the background of the membership of the present Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. Let us have a look at the people comprising the Council. I will not name them. I do not do this in any way to denegrate the present members. Far be it. I hope that my modesty would certainly preclude me from doing that. I wish to indicate the kinds of people they are. 
The  Chairman  of the Council is the Chief of the Division of Entomology of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I cannot avoid disclosing the name of the  Deputy Chairman  of this body. The  Deputy Chairman  is  Mrs Crisp,  certainly a distinguished woman who, besides being the wife of a former professor, is also a very highly educated woman in her own right and associated with a number of very worthwhile community organisations. The members of the Council include the technical director of an important industry in this country - the one person in this group, I see, from such a background - a Senior Assistant Secretary of the Department of Education and Science in Canberra, the  Deputy  Vice-chancellor of the Australian National University, a former Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University, an Associate Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission, the Professor of Accounting and Public Finance at the School of General Studies, again of the Australian National University - I would focus attention on just how strongly represented on this body is the Australian National University - the Principal of the Canberra College of Education, the manager of a State electricity commission branch who also has a good deal of professional engineering experience, a Commissioner of the Department of Main Roads in New South Wales up until 1967, and a Reader in Education at the University of Melbourne. 
These are the kinds of people who make up the membership of the Council. They represent a fair sprinkling, I think honourable members will admit, of high-powered academic people. 1 again say that there is a place, not a dominating place but certainly a place, for representation of the community at large. I would like to see people selected from parents' organisations in the community to serve on this body. I have mentioned commerce and industry, at both the employer and the employee level. If we look at the body which controls the University of New South Wales - in some ways 1 suppose it is a parallel type of body - we see how the representation on it is spread beyond the academic circles. If we wanted this College of Advanced Education to be something distinctive from a university, I cannot understand why there is on the controlling body such a heavy representation of the Australian National University and some of the other universities. I should have thought that it would require something broader than this. I am hoping that our amendment will bring in some new representation, including parliamentarians, more staff representation and student representation - all wholesome additions to the Council. We go further, as 1 have indicated, and suggest also that there should be 3 representatives of the Canberra community. I think that is well and truly justified, and I hope that the Government will be prepared to accept the amendment moved by the Opposition on this matter. 
I summarise by saying that I would like to see a more deliberate attempt to clarify what we are to expect from colleges of advanced education. T hope the States will come to the party soon and relieve the anxiety not only of students but also of the staff and of people who might be inclined to apply for positions on these bodies. I am sure that the colleges themselves would like to have clarified just what is to be their role in their efforts to attract suitable staff. I would like to see, even at this belated stage, some kind of national tertiary body that would bring about a co-ordination as well as a clarification of the respective roles of these various tertiary institutions. I certainly would like to think that our colleges of advanced education will have a broad and, I hope, a rich source of strength from the kinds of people who serve on their controlling bodies. 
1 cannot but feel depressed by the fact that the Government has rejected yet again a proposition to broaden this council. It seems to me that this is a vote of no confidence in the Canberra community. The people of Canberra would not recognise professors, with all due respect, as being typical or representative of the. community. They are particular people in the community. All that the Opposition is asking for is that the wide scope of the community should be represented on the Council. The Wark Committee recommended a more direct and intimate relationship between education and industry and other relevant organisations. That is plain enough. Surely the Government is prepared to make some gesture. It used its ingenuity on the previous proposition about parliamentarians to have it defeated by saying: 'Well, this is not a national body as is the Australian National University'. But we are now considering a different situation. Yet, another reason or reasons have been found not to accept representatives of the local community. 
Wherever we go throughout Australia there is regret that there is not more community participation in the educational process. I remember when  Dr Wyndham  espoused this participation very strongly in New South Wales. He was very regretful that parent and citizens organisations took up so much time working out what would be the requirements of their next fete instead of looking at the content of education and how education could be better organised. We live in a democracy and we pretend that we are educating people to live in that democracy, but we use anything but democratic procedures in order to arrange or run our educational processes. The Minister for Education and Science mentioned the cost of the proposal put forward by the Opposition. This seems to be the last refuge of conservatives. The Minister was concerned about the cost that would be involved in electing community representatives to the Council. If this would cost so much why not run it concurrently with the other local elections that take place in Canberra? For instance, the election of community representatives to the Council could be run in conjunction with the election of members to the Canberra Community Hospital Board or the Advisory Council. I suppose there are a number of organisations that are elected by the community. For the Minister to dig up such petty reasons for rejecting our proposal is a contempt of the whole proposition. We are asking for the Council to be broadened. We are not asking that this should be done for any philosophical reason called democracy or something like that. We are suggesting that community representatives should be members of the Council because they would enrich the advice that would be coming to that body. The advice would be much more representative. After all, this is what the Wark Committee envisaged. But it did not need the Wark Committee to recommend this. As I said before, educators up and down this country regret that there is a tradition in this country of bureaucratic control, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy).  We seem to have grown up in this tradition and there seems to be an unwillingness, unfortunately, in too many places to give people the opportunity to have a say in education. Education is too precious a thing to leave to the elite. If education means anything in a democratic society it ought to reach out and use the advice, the suggestions, the active participation and the interest of so many other people in the community. As the honourable member for Bendigo said, the community in Canberra has tremendous advantages. It has the most qualifications of any community in Australia. As the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has said, the most interested and active people which the education commit tee of the Australian Labor Party has run into have been people from the Canberra community. Why should they not be encouraged to participate in something that is peculiar to Canberra? After all, does the Minister not envisage that the Canberra College of Advanced Education will make its products available not only to Canberra - I refer here particularly to teachers - but to the whole of Australia? If we have people in Canberra who are prepared to contribute we ought to be encouraging them to do so. 
First, I wish to take up the question of scholarships and tertiary scholarships particularly. I understood the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to say by way of interjection earlier that the number of tertiary scholarships on issue at the moment is approximately 67,000. Was that the figure? 
I thought that, at the time, the Minister said tertiary scholarships. The number of scholarships in circulation as at 30th June of this year was 61,048, of which 30,510 were for Commonwealth university scholarships and 4,656 were advanced education scholarships. In total, tertiary scholarships available reached approximately 35,000 which is somewhat less than the figure that I thought was intimated'- 
They must be added too, but they do not amount to that many. The point is to recognise that we are looking at this matter of scholarships and that a factor relevant to the 2 Bills under consideration is the number of people who will gain entry to these institutions which the Commonwealth is supporting. Looking at the matter of university scholarships - and I do not intend to go into this subject in any detail - we find that this year 7,500 open entrance scholarships ate available. I think that these scholarships cater for not much more than 20 per cent of applicants for such scholarships. 
It is notorious that Commonwealth reports on scholarships always indicate the number of scholarships that were made available but do not tell us how many people applied for those scholarships. This information is very important. I would recommend that, in future reports, an indication should be given of the extent to which the number of scholarships being made available caters for the need. This year, there was an increase in later year awards at university level up to 4,000. But I understand that those 4,000 later year awards are to cater for 70,000 university students. Obviously they will not go around that number of university students who are in second or later years of their university courses. I suggest that 4,000 scholarships is not a very generous number to whack up among 70,000 students. 
I turn to the field of Commonwealth advanced education scholarships. The number was increased this year to 2,500. But as my colleague, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy),  mentioned earlier, there were 43,375 applicants for those 2,500 scholarships. In other words, 6.1 per cent of the total number of applicants could expect to obtain a scholarship. As a matter of fact, I am concerned as to what is happening to these advanced education scholarships. Last year, 1,500 were available and, speaking from recollection, 1 think there were 37,000 applicants. Yet, the Commonwealth could not dispose of the whole 1,500 available scholarships. lt is a fact that out of a total of 1,500 open entrance scholarships which were available last year the Commonwealth was able to award 840 only; yet, there were 37,000 applicants. It must be admitted that some of these people - presumably a great many of these people - do apply for more than one kind of scholarship. But I do not understand why such a low proportion of students - I think the figure given in answer to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was 8.4 per cent - attending colleges of advanced education is in receipt of Commonwealth scholarships. Yet some of the rather small number of scholarships  -  1,500  -  that were available last year could not be awarded. I am wondering what is happening. Whatkind of conditions are being imposed on the award of such scholarships? Even of those scholarships that are awarded, we have to ask ourselves whether they are going to the people most in need of them. The categoric answer must be: Certainly not. They are being awarded on merit, and this means that a big proportion of the relatively scarce number of scholarships is going to the sons and daughters of parents in the upper income groups, particularly the professional classes. The sad thing as far as I am concerned is that the trend is not getting any better. The trend is just as bad now as it was about 7 years ago. There are still comparatively few youngsters from the low income groups getting through and doing a tertiary education course. I am talking about youngsters who have been assessed as quite capable of undertaking such a course. 
I certainly would. I make no bones about it, and the Labor 
Party makes no bones about it. If we are to give only a small number of scholarships in relation to the number of applicants I would rather help the person for whom a scholarship was absolutely critical in deciding whether he could go on with his education or not. Now that the Minister has asked this question, 1 refer also to our policy on scholarships for secondary education. We are not confronted with that position, and we are not confronted with the position that the Minister posed to me a moment ago. In the 1963 elections we promised to give secondary scholarships to every child for the last 2 years of senior school. We were not confronted with this kind of selection and if we had been we would have given these scholarships to people who qualified and for whom a scholarship was necessary to enable them to go on. We would not be interested if we had only scarce number of scholarships available in giving them to parents who could afford to buy extra tuition for their sons and daughters who could afford to get the best textbooks and reference books and to take their children on travels and to provide them with all the things to give extra advantage to those who are already advantaged. 
That is where our approach is distinctly different from that of the Government. We have said that we will give scholarships to every secondary school child in the last 2 years of school and we will make places in universities free. As recently as last night the Leader of the Opposition announced also that we would make all tertiary education free. We are not faced with that kind of selection process but I am indicating what we would have done if we had been in the position of the Government with a relatively small number of scholarships available and having to choose between the sons and daughters of wealthy people and those of people who may be needy. I know, and the Minister and every member in this House must know, that for many of the comparatively wealthy people this scholarship allowance is no more than pin money to use as a deposit on a new model sports car. Yet, to take it to the other extreme, the sons and daughters of widows are going out to work. For them that scholarship would be a tremendous value, yet they are deprived of it. Research has been done into this matter - not enough, but there has been research. Professor Fensham in Victoria has done some research - the Commonwealth has not done nearly enough - to show what kind of people are getting scholarships and to establish whether they are the people we want to get them. If we are looking at this business of who gets to university and who gets to colleges of advanced education we have to look at student assistance while we are on the job. 
I come back to this Bill. I have been following a long line of people who have talked around the subject, but 1 suggest that what I have said is relevant. That part of the Bill which relates to university salaries is based on an inquiry carried out by  Mr Justice  Eggleston. I want to draw the Minister's attention to some other things that  Mr Justice  Eggleston bad to say in his report. He recommended that future inquiries should not be forced upon him at such short notice and under such pressure of urgency. In March this year he and his assistants were called upon to carry out this inquiry to determine a salary adjustment that was to date back to 1st January this year. Here we are nearly at the end of the year making salary adjustments dating back to 1st January. Even this has been made possible only because the inquiry was carried out in haste and, as  Mr Justice  Eggleston himself indicates, without facing up to all the kinds of questions that might have been dealt with. 
He also suggests the need for a more general  inquiry  o deal with such matters as the possible need for extra classifications or categories in the staff structure. For instance, he noted that in the medical field there is a differential available. There is a loading available for persons in the faculty of medicine. It applies only at the professorial level; it does not apply at the subprofessorial level. He thinks that it might well be applied at this level. There are loadings also for professors in other faculties. There could be loadings for those who have extra responsibility, more students or more staff under their care than some other professor in a comparatively limited faculty. He thinks that these matters of differentials and loadings should be faced up to, but under the pressures of his inquiry he was not able to deal with them. He stated on page 17 of the copy of the report that 1 have: 
If  a  general inquiry  is  to be held it should be set in train in the not too distant future. 
He said that it should be undertaken not when the triennium is under way but well before the triennial provisions start. Instead it has been left not to the last minute but well past the last minute. The provisions in this Bill relating to professors and associate professors and readers are a direct result of his recommendations. Quite frankly, I cannot follow how we derived the salary levels for senior lecturers, lecturers and junior lecturers. He makes a straight out recommendation for the 2 categories I have mentioned, that is professor and associate professor or reader. I commend to the Government's notice his warnings or his advice in the matter of carrying out a general inquiry and setting it in train shortly. 
While we are talking about these salaries and the provisions for universities, I mention that I came across some figures that to me are quite startling, even making allowance for the fact that at the Australian National .University we have a higher proportion of post graduate training than at the State universities. I want the House to take notice of the allocations to universities in the various States. In New South Wales the annual recurrent grant per equivalent full time student at the universities was $1,428. In Victoria it was $1,447 and in Queensland $1,428. Honourable members will notice that the amounts are all in the same range. The amount for South Australia was a little higher. It was $1,511. For Western Australia it was $1,472 and for Tasmania it was a little higher still  -  $1,617. The average for all States was $1,493 per equivalent full time student. But what was the amount in the Australian Capital Territory at the Australian National University? It was $5,700 per equivalent full time student. In other words, the allocation from all government sources is 4 times as great per full time student at the ANU as it is at the State universities. Is it any wonder that there are plenty of cries, probably not from the Australian National University, but certainly from the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  about the University of Queensland at St Lucia? 
I have allowed for that. It is not so much a case of what I think; it is a case of what the universities think, what their staff associations think and what the State governments think about the kind of generosity that apparently is available from the Commonwealth in respect of the ANU as compared with State universities. If honourable members think that the honourable member for Ryan was telling a sad story about the University of Queensland, let me quote a little from the 1969 report of the University of New South Wales. It states: 
An analysis of the recurrent budget position for the period 1970-1972 shows that the University would experience very considerable difficulty in meeting its commitments if the planned  student  numbers were accepted. The University, therefore, in the later part of 1969 look drastic steps to limit its expenditure including deferring the appointment of teaching staff until 1970, suspending action on the filling of non-academic staff vacancies, and limiting expenditure on materials, major plant and books to 90 per cent of allocations. 
Later the report stated: 
The State Government has been sympathetic with the University's problems and has renewed its approach to the Commonwealth Government on the matter of supplementation of grants in connection with non-academic salary increases to date.  1 see nothing about provision for nonacademic salaries in the Bills before us. If the universities are in this sorry plight, what is wrong with the Australian Universities Commission? Tertiary education - colleges of advanced education and universities - is doing well from this Government compared to what happens to primary, secondary and pre-school education, education of the handicapped and technical education. They are poverty ridden so far as the Commonwealth is concerned. We are now talking about the area in which the Commonwealth is most generous, yet this is the situation in at least 2 universities that we have mentioned - the Queensland University and the University of New South Wales. I am sure that if we made inquiries we would find that most other universities have complaints, not about academic luxuries but about the absolute necessities of academic and non-academic staff - about the material requirements of the universi ties. The Commonwealth has a pretty high power body, the Australian Universities Commission, which is supposed to make the triennial grants. Was my colleague from Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  right when he said that for political purposes the recommendations of the Australian Universities Commission are being pruned to meet what the Government is prepared to make available? If this is so, it is no wonder our universities are struggling. The honourable member for Bendigo recounted the even sorrier plight of the new colleges of advanced education. 1 have examined the schedule to the Bill which contains details of allocations for each of the universities, but the Parliament has not been told anything about what these amounts mean in relation to the number of staff at the various levels. We have been given no information about what kind of staff-student ratio will be provided for over the triennium. We do not get any of this kind of information. Whence are we supposed to derive it? It is about time the Government recognised that if these matters are to be considered in a serious vein - if they are to be considered in a sensible way - honourable members must have the sort of information that I am suggesting should have been made available. Even in the field where the Government prides itself on being relatively generous there are distinct problems. I am not sure that the grants that are being made under the provisions of these 2 Bills will remedy the problems. 
Before I resume my seat I warn to add my words to the pleas that have been made in so many other places already, that it. is about time the Commonwealth shared 50-50 with the universities in respect of recurrent grants - the running costs of universities and the salaries and that sort of thing. These are really big items for any institution and it is not good enough for the Commonwealth to ask the States to meet these costs on the basis of a Si commonwealth contribution for every SI. 85 that the State spends. This is an almost $2 for Si relationship. I do not think the States will ever overcome their problems, and their lower levels of education will not improve while the States are required to spend $1.85 to obtain a grant of SI from the Commonwealth. I think that the Wark Committee and various other committees recommended that the Commonwealth should contribute $1 for $1 for recurrent grants just as it does with respect to capital grants. 
would be good enough to tell me why the Commonwealth grant to the Australian Council for Educational Research was reduced from $50,000 as it was last year to $40,000 for this year. For those people who are interested in educational research the work of ACER is quite legendary. I will quote the titles of some of the big projects which ACER has taken on in "the last year or two. They include: junior secondary science projects; tertiary education entrance project; learning and teaching in colleges of advanced education; international study of educational achievement; study skills at primary levels; Commonwealth secondary scholarship examination; writing ability of secondary school pupils; closed-circuit television - the Malvern project; and the New South Wales basic skills testing programme. They are some of the projects which ACER investigated in the last few years. Perhaps I should have noticed during the estimates debate that the grant for ACER was reduced from $50,000 to $40,000. However I am rather perplexed as to the reason for the reduction in the grant. It is my view that it should be increased rather than reduced. 
I certainly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  to give statutory authority to this Advisory Committee. The only other comment I want to make about that Advisory Committee is that I was wondering whether there could be a place on that Committee for representatives of practising teachers or of professional organisations. I am not necessarily thinking of teachers' federations or teachers' unions. I am thinking of bodies like the Australian College of Education or the various State institutes of educational research. These people are in the job of teaching and many of them are practitioners in the field. Part of the charter of this Committee is to promote not only the conduct of research but also the communication of research results - the application - as it is called. It is also part of its charter to help people to develop research techniques, to do courses, to help them with fees and to grant them allowances. This is quite an important part of the work and one that I applaud. I cannot help thinking that there might have been a place on the Committee for the people I have mentioned. I know some of the members of the Committee. They include Professor Mitchell and  Mr David  Verco, who unfortunately is rather ill at the moment and I hope that he will recover very shortly and take his place on the Committee, and  Mr Albert  Webster, Director of Planning, Department of Education in New South Wales. These people are suitable members for this Committee but I think that there should be a place on the Committee for someone who is in more direct daily contact with the action of teaching and the communication of research results in an acceptable form, or in a consumable form, if 1 may put it that way, for practising teachers in the field. A number of suggestions have been made as to the kind of projects that might be supported. I hope that when they get around to projects they will look at some of those that are widely embracing. 
We have said before that there is still scope for carrying out a research project on the educational system as a whole. Whether this could be done by a group project I would not be prepared to say. The Minister might appreciate my remarks having regard to the meeting that we attended together on Sunday night last. There is a place for looking at education not only at levels but in particular localities. I am talking about education in socially, culturally, educationally and economically depressed areas. What has been talked about is a positive programme of discrimination in favour of such areas. We have looked at parts of the western region of Sydney. Unfortunately there are a lot of regions in our capital cities where something drastic has to be done. Such a project will embrace not only material educational provisions but also other associated matters involving social workers, housing, health provisions and so on. 
We have examples of such projects being carried out in the United States. For instance, a project called 'Headstart' is being undertaken in that country. Such a project would tend to assist people in depressed or deprived areas. I hope that something might be done in the field of handicapped children. There are quite a number of projects that could be taken up there. I promised that I would not delay the House. However, I want to ask a question of the Minister about the survey which has been conducted by the Australian Education Council. It is entitled National Survey of Educational Needs'. People have said that the survey was not completed and that it is still in progress. They have said that the report that has been tabled is a rather faked report. As a matter of fact, it has been said by the  President  of the New South Wales Parents and Citizens Federation that the committee is still in operation on this matter and that the figure of expenditure needed over the next 5 years to bring education up to scratch is not a reliable figure because the research has not been completed. I wonder whether the Minister might give me some information on this matter. 
Finally I want to correct some figures I gave in a speech on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) on 24th September. The Minister for Education and Science came into this House the other night and was manful enough to correct something he said in the House. I have to admit that I also made a mistake. In my speech on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) I referred to science laboratory and equipment grants. On that occasion, in speaking about what was granted in the last triennium, I said: 
The amount .per head granted in private schools was $63.50 and the amount granted in State schools was $29.70, 46.7 per cent of what was granted in private schools. 
I was in error. I had divided the total by the number of New South Wales students in secondary education instead of the total in the whole of Australia. However the broad argument still holds good; the correct figure should be in private secondary schools the amount is $23.64 per head and in government schools $10.90, which is 46.2 per cent of what was spent in private schools. My argument is still that this is a gross inequality of provision. However, I did want to take this opportunity to correct the figures. Apart from that, I strongly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What discussions have taken place over the last 5 years in an endeavour to eliminate the duplication or near duplication of arrival and departure times by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines passenger aircraft at major airports in Australia. 
What were the results of those discussions in each instance. 
Is the matter currently under examination. 
asked  the  Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many bornes have been built in each Stale in each year as a result of the Commonwealth's offer of a grant of $25m over 5 years to build nursing borne accommodation for the frail aged. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Can he  say  how many (a) full-time and (b)  part-time  technical teachers  are  employed by education departments in each State and in each Commonwealth Territory. 
Of the part-time teachers (a) how many have and (b) what percentage has received the equivalent of at least (i) 3 months, (ii) 6 months and (iii) one year full-time professional teacher training. 
J direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation in this place. How much longer must the already long suffering residents in many parts of Sydney await the Government's decision as to the choice of a site for a second international airport for that city? Has the Minister been contemplating the report of the interdepartmental committee on that subject for about 6 months? Is there any truth in current speculation that Bankstown aerodrome will be the site for a second international airport? Finally, will the implementation of the decision, when it is ultimately made, be further delayed by the Government's present economic policy? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will he make available, for the perusal of members, copies of the pamphlet, 'Australian Military Forces Pocketbook, South Vietnam'. 
Who produces this pamphlet. 
Has bis attention been drawn to criticism of the pamphlet, because of its account of past and present regimes and situations in Vietnam, which recently appeared in the 'Catholic Worker' published in Melbourne. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
ls an applicant for age or invalid pension required to disclose the disposal of any property made more than 5 years before the date of application for the pension. 
What procedure or formula is now used in depleting the value of any gift of property made by a pensioner whilst in receipt of a pension. 
Is the current procedure or formula more rigorous than was previously imposed. 
If so in what way and why was the change made. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many homes have been built in each State in each year as a result of the Commonwealth's offer of a grant of $25 million over 5 years to build nursing home accommodation for the frail aged. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
What are the (a) numbers and (b) names of approved medical benefit fund organisations in each State. 
Which of these organisations (a) pay a fund benefit for eye examinations and (b) require the contributor to be seen by an eye doctor. 
Which fund organisations pay a benefit for spectacles. 
Which fund organisations require the contributor to have had the spectacles prescribed by an eye doctor before benefit is payable. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the State for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education service which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty hound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government consider granting to widow and invalid pensioners the same kind of taxation concession which applies to aged pensioners under the age allowance provision of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
What would be the cost to revenue of such a concession for each pensioner category. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has, I am sure, shown quite clearly to every parent, to every teacher and to every educator in this country just how out of touch he is with his portfolio. I came to a clear recognition of this in his own electorate late last year. I went along with the Minister to appear at a public meeting of parents and teachers at Parramatta. I hope that I do not say this uncharitably but I recall that the Minister was practically counted out of the hall for expressing the same sorts of sentiments as he expressed here this afternoon. The S 1,443m that is required is required as from this current year and not for some time in the indefinite future. That amount of money is required to cover the very urgent needs, the urgent needs and other needs of education at the primary, secondary and teacher education levels. As the Leader of the Opposition said, it does not take into account the needs of pre-school education, of the special needs of handicapped children, of technical education or education at any other level. That money is required now and it is required for those 3 segments of education I have just mentioned. How can the Minister stand in this place and say that this is only a projection of the needs ahead? 
The Minister will know from reading the report, insufficient as it is, that it refers to a backlog of educational deficiencies at every level of education in this country. It refers to buildings in poor states of repair that need to be repaired or even bulldozed to the ground and replaced by new buildings. It refers to all those schools, primary and secondary alike, which need assembly halls, libraries and all the other types of equipment which modern education requires. Something has to be done to arrest the wastage of teachers from our educational service. The wastage is running at a record level. The report furnished to the Minister informed him that the position will get worse rather than better. How can the Minister be so complacent in the face of such testimony? 
The Government is cynically stalling any implementation of the recommendations of the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs. This report was tabled last May after several revisions. It was presented to the Premiers' Conference last June. There was then no referral back to the Premiers. The Premiers did not indicate that they would need a second look at the report. Then came a further stalling incident in the Budget debate last year when the then Prime Minister said: "We are not going to do anything about it now. We are going to refer it back to the States for them to have a look at it and to judge their priorities.' But the report itself at page 3, amongst other things, states that the terms of reference included the determination of priorities for the fulfilment of these needs. Why is the Government stalling? Why is there this backlog? 
As I said this report was presented to the Premiers but it was not dealt with at the Budget session last year. Then the Prime Minister stalled in 2 ways - by referring it back to the States and by saying: 'We still have to await a reply from the private sector of education'. When I raised the matter with the Minister in January of this year he told me that 3 States - apparently Western Australia has since come in - had not replied even after all that time. Furthermore, he said that he had to ask the private schools to go over their requirements again because they had not come in in a uniform manner. When I visited a private school about 2 weeks ago I found that it had only just received the form which it has to complete. So provision for the welfare of 78 per cent of Australia's children has to wait. This dillydallying, shilly-shallying is going on while some other sector of education receives consideration. What will be the position of these children while they wait for the Government to implement the recommendations contained in this report? 
I remind the Minister that the report, on page 4, states: 
In all cases the planning has been done with an eye to feasibility. 
In other words, the people who compiled this report decided in their deliberations that these were the things that could be done. This report was not compiled by some outside body, lt was compiled by the Education Ministers from each of the States and the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science, supported of course by their departmental officers. Now the Minister gets up and says that we need to look at what can feasibly be done over the next 5 years. 
I remind the Minister that the report mentions such terms as 'very urgent, urgent and other" needs of primary and secondary teacher education. As I have said, the report takes no account of preschool education, important as it is. It takes no account of the thing about which this country ought to be ever shameful - the non-acceptance of our governmental responsibility for handicapped children. 
The report itself is pathetic and inadequate. It is designed to cover up more than it reveals about the educational scene in Australia. It contains little indications of the assumptions or bases of its generalised statistical calculations. Still the report arrived at this estimate of the colossal amount of $l,443m which would be needed over and above what is currently being provided by the States, plus an annual increase of 10 per cent which the States will have to provide. 
It is no wonder that education in Australia probably has never been in such a demoralised state, which is quite different from the impression which the Minister has endeavoured to give to this House. Let me quote, in the few minutes remaining to me, what a very celebrated educationist in Australia had to say on this question. I refer to Professor R. Goldman. He is reported in the 'Australian' of 12th February 1971 as having said: 
If God had wanted to create a poverty-stricken shambles with the greatest education inequalities possible in an affluent society, lie would have invented Australia. 
He said further: 
The children in this country are being crucified upon the politics of Slate versus Federal interest. 
I could refer to other equally eminent educationists in this country who bear testimony to the deficiencies in education. The Minister seems to brush aside these deficiencies and say: 'We will get around them when the States, in their belated manner, come in with their reports.' The dissatisfaction with education is so widespread that 1 have never seen so many strikes among professional teachers as I have seen in the last year or two. There are insufficient numbers of teachers and there are ill qualified teachers in classrooms throughout Australia. Parents all over the nation could bear testimony to this fact. Their children are coming home and saying: 'We have not had a science teacher for 4 weeks', or 'We have not had a mathematics teacher'. 
How many high schools at the present time have had to cut down on their teaching periods? How many children are sent home half a day a week to do private study because there are no teachers to teach them? In fact, if study is to be done properly it should be supervised. What is the good of study if there is no follow up by the teacher to see what impressions the students have gained and to clarify the results? Private study done properly needs more teachers, not fewer teachers. In the face of this situation young people are coming to me - and I am sure to most members of Federal and State parliaments - expressing regret that they cannot gain entry to teachers colleges. A few have come to me in the last week. Although they have high qualifications there are no places in teachers colleges for them. That is not altogether the blame of the Commonwealth Government. I realise that the States - and some in particular - have been very laggard in using the funds which have been made available to them. There is a grossly insufficient number of subject masters. There are virtually no subject masters in some schools. 
I have referred to the cut down in lesson periods, particularly in the subjects of mathematics and science. These were the fields about which the Commonwealth Government indicated a sense of priority. The Government created a science laboratory grants scheme, yet at the same time it did nothing to ensure that there would be a supply of qualified teachers to teach in these expensive laboratories and to use the expensive equipment which had been provided. As I have said, there has been a delay in the building of teachers colleges. As I have gone around schools in my electorate in the last 2 weeks I have found that primary schools are very resentful of the fact that they have been neglected altogether. No laboratories have been provided for them. They have received no library grants with which to provide decent libraries for children who are learning library habits. It is a bit late in the day to start introducing children to the proper use of libraries - books and references - in secondary schools. This ought to be started well and truly in the early part of a child's education in primary school. 
Very few ancillary services have been provided for primary schools. Too many headmasters and principals are trying to administer their schools and at the same time teach. Every parliamentarian knows that more often than not when he visits a school the principal has to come away from a class so that he can talk to the parliamentarian. These are the areas in which deficiencies exist. There is a woeful inequality of opportunity in our schools. This matter could be the subject of a dissertation for hours. There is a need for a programme of positive discrimination to help children in backward areas, in the less affluent areas and in the culturally deprived areas. There are many reasons why honourable members should support the Opposition in the matter of public importance which it has raised today. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health, ls it a fact that a compromise has been negotiated between the South Australian Labor Government and that State's branch of the Australian Medical Association concerning proposed increases in medical fees? Does the proposal mean that any fee increases will now be restricted to consultations and home visits? Can the Minister indicate what progress he has made in negotiations with the National Executive of the Australian Medical Association to prevent the proposed overall 15 per cent increase in medical fees that would affect all persons outside South Australia? 
asked the Minister  for  Education and Science, upon notice: 
What amount of the $2,500,000 made available under the States Grants (Pre-school Teachers Colleges) Act 1968 for the period ending 30th June 1971 has now been spent by each of the States. 
What was the amount available in each case. 
asked  the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
On what date did the current inquiry into the nation's repatriation system commence. 
What are the terms of reference. 
Who are the members of the inquiry panel anil what organisations does each represent. (41 Where and .when have meetings so far been held. 
What publicity has been given to the inquiry and the dates of meeting. f6) When is the inquiry expected to be terminated. 
Will the report of the inquiry be tabled in Parliament. 
I notice that, in decency, Government members have ceased defending this shabby Social Services Bill. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am the third consecutive Opposition member to speak on this measure since the resumption after the sitting was suspended. I support the farreaching amendment to this bill moved on behalf of the Opposition by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The paltry gesture provided by this Bill was made not really to help some pensioners but rather to divert the public's attention from the Opposition's stinging attack on this stale, wrangling dispirited Government. 
Significantly, the announcement of the increase was not made by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  or by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  In fact, the Minister for Social Services seemed to be as singularly stunned and flabbergasted as everybody else was by the cynical and rather offhanded gesture of the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the middle of a debate on a motion of want of confidence in the Government. The announcement came as a shabby kind of repudiation of all the protestations by the Government, at the time of the introduction of the Budget in August of last year and in a debate only a couple of weeks before this measure was introduced, that no more money could be found for pensioners or for any form of social welfare. Are we to believe, then,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Government salts away undisclosed tax revenue for use in political emergencies or for every time when a change of Liberal Party Prime Minister occurs? 
This Bill provides an increase of 50c  a  week for some pensioners. This increase applies to those who are already entitled to the maximum benefit either at the standard rate or at the married rate. An increase of 50c a week means that such pensioners will receive about 7c a day extra. That represents the price of a daily newspaper or the price of an apple. That is the contribution that is made for pensioner welfare in the face of ever increasing costs in the community. 
The honourable member would take the apple. That is about the worth of the pension increase. This is what we are debating, in fact. Obviously this is a very inadequate compensation for the increase in the cost of living. "Everybody in the community is well aware that it is the cost of fundamental needs of living that are rising in price. The increases are in such commodities as butter, bread, in some places milk, and such things as transport costs, municipal rates and so on. These are the goods and services that the pensioners, in common with the rest of the members of the community, have to use and to purchase. 
As I have said, the benefits proposed by the introduction of this measure will apply only to those in receipt of the full pension and will provide some benefit to those who receive within 50c of the full pension. Only recently, the Minister for Social Services brought out a new guide book on the application of the means test. If it was not difficult enough to comprehend that guide book, the Minister has introduced as another measure which involves an inequitable rule of thumb, a clumsy kind of formula in respect of this pension increase. Administratively, the social services legislation is a nightmare as most people who try to understand the operation of the means test will find out. Most people find it impossible to understand. As a matter of fact, many a lawyer has referred people to the Department of Social Services or to their local Federal member in preference to trying to comprehend the social services legislation. So I hope that when the Minister gives a promise that a complete review of the social services legislation will be undertaken he will carry out that promise to the satisfaction of the Opposition and that it will bring about a very much desired measure of simplicity. There is no consistency of application for the means test. It is a complete hotch-potch. Obviously, no research has been done in working out this shabby political gimmick that is now before the Parliament. The measure was pulled out of a hat and it will only add to the people's misunderstanding of the whole legislation. 
The important point is that the Prime Minister announced that the measure was being introduced because of the increased cost of living and because of the 6 per cent increase granted in the national wage case. If that was so, one would wonder why some increases for other classes of pensioners were not included in the Bill. Take for example the case of widows. In the last Budget the income for a widow with 3 children was increased by a paltry  LS  per cent. By contrast, the average wage earner received an increase of 8 per cent during the 1969-70 financial year, and there was a substantial reduction in income tax for most people in the community. What compassion is shown for the widows? No increase in the dependant's allowance for widows was included in the Budget and no increase has been included in this measure. A widow with 3 children all over the age of 6 years will, under this measure, have her pension increased from $29 a week to $29.50 a week. This is an increase of 7c a day for a woman with 3 dependent children. This represents an increase of 1.7 per cent. So counting together the increase in the last Budget and the increase now proposed we have a total increase of 3.5 per cent. In other words, we are asking n woman with 3 children ail over the age of 6 years to live on 35 per cent of the average weekly earnings of the community. 
It is not only the case of widows with dependent children which has been forgotten. As my colleague, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  has just mentioned, no increase has been provided for the dependent wives of pensioners. Are they not expected to continue living? Are nol they expected to continue to buy the everyday necessities that have risen in price? If this is so, why is it that they are condemned to receiving still the paltry amount of $7 a week? Imagine an adult person trying to live on $7 a week. There is still no provision for the wife of a pensioner who is not an invalid or who is not 70 years of age. I refer now to the case of a gentleman who has turned 65 and who is not an invalid. If his wife is under 60 years of age she gets nothing, so the 2 of them have to live on $16 a week. Can honourable members imagine an adult couple paying their way in society today on ยง16 a week? The rest of us think it is bad enough that the average weekly income in the community is S84.80 a week. 
The guardian's or mother's allowance for single pensioners with children remains the same as it has been for the last 2 years. There has been no increase. The allowance of $2.50 for the first child remains at S2.50. There has been no increase provided in this legislation. For subsequent children the paltry amount of S3. 50 each is paid to meet all their expenses. That amount has not been altered by this legislation. The supplementary allowance that is given to pensioners to help pay for rent, and which applies to only about one-eighth of all pensioners, still remains at $2, the same as it has been, I think, for about 6 years. Yet who is unaware of the way in which rents have skyrocketed in every capital city and every provincial city and town in this country? Not even the means test was altered as far as the rent allowance is concerned. There was no application of the tapered means test to this payment. The contribution of S2 by the Commonwealth towards meeting this increase in the cost of housing and rent remains as it has been for 6 years. The fringe benefits have remained unchanged; not only the rent allowance which I have just mentioned but also those in respect to, say, telephone rentals which have gone up from $40 a year to S47 a year. This means that a pensioner who receives the concession is required to increase his rental payment from $26.66 a year to $31.33 a year. All of this has to come out of an increase of 50c a week. There has been no easing of the means test in this measure for widows, invalids or anybody else. 
One of the things that I do want to bring to the notice of the House is that in applying the means test it is the gross income that is taken into account, a most unfair provision. The other day 1 went to a sheltered workshop. The people working there earned SIO a week, the maximum they are allowed to earn under this legislation but in some cases they had to pay tax on their earnings. Nevertheless, this was the amount that they were allowed to earn. So despite the fact that the Commonwealth takes back some of the $10 they earn, it is still that same $10 that affects their pension. I recently asked the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  why the Commonwealth did not provide for widows and invalids the same or an equivalent provision as is granted under the age allowance in the field of taxation. He assured me that this proposition had been considered on a number of occasions but the Government had not seen fit to adopt it. In other words, the Government had not seen fit to allow widows and invalid pensioners to earn the amount that is permissible under the means test without it being affected by tax. At present those earnings are affected but the earnings of aged pensioners are not by virtue of the age allowance. The Treasurer said that the Government was not in a position to grant this concession which he estimated would cost about Sim to revenue each year. 
While I am on the subject of people earning the amount of income permitted under the means test I suggest that the people concerned, especially invalids and those who work in sheltered workshops, should be allowed to deduct from their assessable income the costs of running a car. Many of these people are unable to use public transport and have to use a car. I suggest that they should be allowed to earn $10 a week net after deducting allowances for depreciation and the running costs of a car. In line with many people in the community and many organisations, I suggest that it is about time invalid pensioners and those who work in sheltered workshops were allowed to earn $20 a week rather than $10 a week as at present. This would give more incentive and inducement to invalids to extend themselves in their earning capacity, if this is possible, without having to worry about losing their pension. Of course, as soon as they earn $3 a week they lose their rent allowance or supplementary assistance, as it is called. That ought to be remedied. 
A lot has been said in this debate about comparisons of social service benefits in this country with other countries, but the simple fact is that total cash social service benefit paid by the Government is falling as a proportion of the gross national product. Not only is it falling in relation to pensions paid in other countries but it is also falling as a percentage of the wealth of this country, the gross national product, The percentage of gross national product of all cash benefits was 5.9 per cent at the beginning of the 1960s and it is now 5.3 per cent or 5.5 per cent. It has been variously estimated by different authorities. This puts Australia well down the list of prosperous countries in its social service payments. Let us look at some of the countries with which we might compare ourselves in the percentage of gross national product they allocate to social service payments. The European Economic Community countries pay out 15.2 per cent of their gross national product in social welfare, Scandinavia pays 10.9 per cent, Canada 9.9 per cent, the United Kingdom 8.6 per cent, Switzerland 8.2 per cent, New Zealand 6.6 per cent, the United States 5.9 per cent and Australia, with a means test loaded on to it, pays 5.5 per cent, trailing all those countries with which we ought to be able to compare ourselves. There was a time when Australia was either in front or near the front as far as its social welfare provisions were concerned. Honourable members can see from those statistics provided by Professor Downing, the Professor of Economics at the University of Melbourne, that we are now not only trailing but trailing a long way back as far as our provisions are concerned. 
One of the things that we had hoped would come out of this debate was that the Government would make provision for automatic adjustments of pensions. Pension payments and pension alterations ought to be taken out of the realm of party bickering and political banter. There are at least 14 countries that I can quote which now have provision for the automatic adjustment of long term benefits in relation to rising prices or the average wage in their community. The countries that are doing just this are Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Uruguay. There are 14 countries and there may well be more which make automatic adjustments, not at the behest of a Prime Minister desperate to hang on to his position or in the face of an impending election, but regularly and automatically in relation to a fixed index, whether it be cost of living or the average wage in the community. This, as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is part of the Labor Party's policy. I say part of it because it embraces a good deal more as the proposed amendment suggests. As from 1972 Britain will provide for biennial review and adjustment of its pension rates; in other words, as I said before, taking it out of the realm of political bargaining. 
A comparison of indexes of pension variations as against indexes of average incomes in the community in various countries again shows that we are well behind. Unfortunately, 1 have not the time, and it would be tedious, to quote the countries and the indexes as far as their relation to pensions, earnings and prices are concerned but in Belgium. Finland, France. Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom between 1958 and 196S - the years for which I have the latest figures - pensions went up at a far greater rate than did prices and also at a greater rale than did average earnings. This is not true in Australia. Comparisons show that as a percentage of the average weekly wage in the community pensions have been going down for a long time. 
One other proposition I would like to put to the House relates to the portability of pensions. In other words, people who have earned a pension in this country by living here and by paying taxes over the number of years required to become eligible for a pension should be able to receive those pensions in another country of residence, if that is their desire. This applies not only to migrants who may have lived here for a number of years and then decided at the end of their days that they would like to return to their home country to retire, but also to Australian born people who may desire to go and retire in some other country. A strong case can be made out for the payment of a pension to these people. A number of countries, including the United States of America, already allow people who have earned a pension in those countries to receive those pensions should they go to live in .sonic other country. 
Correspondence which most honourable members would have received refers to the hypothetical cases of 2 migrants. Migrant A came to Australia and lived here for 10 years, which was the period of time required to qualify for an age pension, and then returned to his own country and remained there for 30 years. Then he returned to Australia in his retirement and he was eligible to receive a pension because he had lived in Australia for 10 years at some time in his life. On the other hand, migrant B migrated to this country and remained here for 50 years. He paid taxes to our revenue. When he retired he returned to his homeland. He was no' eligible to receive the pension in his homeland. This shows (he complete injustice of the scheme, and I hope that in the interests of humanity and of our migrant policy this question will receive the Minister's attention during his promised review of social service benefits. 
There are so many other matters to which one could refer. There is the matter of housing for pensioners. Everybody is aware of the long time which pensioners have to wait to receive a housing commission home. In my own State pensioners have to wait more than 5 years to receive a housing commission home at a rental which is suitable for pensioners. The homes for the aged which are provided under the Government's subsidy scheme are not being made available to the needy pensioners in our community. Most of these homes are being made available io people who sell their own homes and then pay a deposit of S2.000 or $3,000 or $4,000 to some church or charitable organisation, in return for which they are provided with a home for the rest of their lives. Under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 the Commonwealth has made a grant of $5m for the period up to 30th June last, but up to 30th June last only $3. 5m of that $5m had been expended. It is a poor show that many of the grants which the Government makes to help pensioners in the provision of housing, senior citizens centres, domiciliary services and welfare offices are conditional on local governments or State governments matching those grants. This places a severe limitation on the assistance and the Government's objectives are not being reached because of that limitation. I suggest it is time that the Commonwealth shouldered its proper responsibilities and made LO conditional grants but direct unmatched grants to help these people in need. I strongly support the amendment, particularly that part of it which refers to the need for a thorough inquiry to be made into our social services programme. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. How earnestly is the Australian Regular Army seeking recruits? How is it that a constituent of mine who applied to join the Regular Army was rejected on medical grounds, but within a week or two was ruled fit for national service? Further, how is it that another constituent of mine, who had completed 2 years national service training, including a year in Vietnam, was subsequently ruled medically unfit for the Regular Army because of his disclosure that as a child he used to sleepwalk? 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
What amount of the $30,000,000 made available under the States Grants (Technical Training) Act 1968 for the triennium ending 30th June 1971 has now been spent by each of the States. 
What amount was available to each State. 
On what projects has the money been spent, and what was the amount spent on each project. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What developments have occurred in the establishment of the proposed post-graduate National School of Business Management at the University of New South Wales. 
When is it expected that the School will commence courses. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be  amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to add only a few words to the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who has already described this measure as mainly a machinery Bill. I wish again to lodge a protest against the existing machinery for recurrent grants to the States. The procedure by which the Commonwealth provides Si for every $1.85 raised by the universities and State governments seems to me to be quite inequitable. The States have made many complaints over the years about the disproportion in the financing of the recurrent expenses of the universities. One implication of the arrangement is that the State governments have to channel many of their sorely needed educational funds away from other levels of education. They must channel those funds into universities in order to attract the Commonwealth grants. I think we have all been made well aware in the last week or two of the extreme deficiencies of pre-school, primary and secondary education, as well as technical and teacher education. 
One of the main reasons for the deficiencies is that the great development achieved in universities has taken place at the cost of other levels of education. I hope that the Commonwealth will again examine the procedure of restricting grants to the basis of $1 for every $1.85 provided by State government funds and university fees. One of the consequences, too, is that the universities have found it necessary in their sorely pressed state to raise student fees quite substantially. As I understand the position from a quick look at the records, in this year alone 4 universities had to increase fees substantially. These universities are the Australian National University, Monash University, the University of Melbourne and La Trobe University. I made a quick survey of these fees. At Monash University the fees are to be increased by about 30 per cent this year. The increase in fees will have quite a discriminating effect on enrolment at universities. 
Many students who are well qualified and who are unable to obtain one of the scarce scholarships will be debarred from entering a university simply because they are unable to pay their way. I understand that at Monash University the fees for the first year student were to be increased from $360 to $468. That is a fairly sizeable amount for any parent to spend on a student at a university in addition to the cost of keeping him. This would add a further considerable burden. I understand that next year the University of Queensland will increase its fees by 20 per cent. All this has been made necessary simply because the States are not able to contribute anything further towards matching the Commonwealth grants. The States are forced to make up some of the deficiency by increasing the students' fees. 
This Bill provides for recurrent grants to universities in respect of salaries at various lecturer levels, lt does not provide grants in respect of the non-academic staff of universities. Those payments can be very costly. As a result of the Australian Universities Commission's very fine pruning of the estimated needs of universities for last year and this year, according to Professor B. P. Williams, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Sydney last year Australian universities were between $6.Sm and  $7. 5m  short of their recurring financial requirements. Because of the pruning by the Australian Universities Commission - a step which was endorsed by this Government - this year universities are expected to have on recurring expenses alone a deficit of between $llm and $12m. This isa serious position. Government supporters have described in dismal terms the position of the University of Queensland. 
Professor Williams has said of many universities that the admission policy for both undergraduate and post-graduate studies would have to be reviewed. He indicated that there would have to be a rise in the staff/student ratios. Over the years the Opposition has been hoping that staff/ student ratios would be reduced, that more lecturers would be made available for the students who are attending universities. We hoped that more tutorial assistance would be given. The high failure rate at universities causes many complaints. 1 understand that about 35 per cent of all students who undertake university studies fail outright to obtain their university degrees. A considerable proportion of those students who obtain university degrees fail to do so within -the minimum time. They have to repeat courses, or repeat a year of a course. This situation is due in great measure to the lack of tutorial assistance and proper lecturing provisions. Unfortunately, it is still a fact in many universities education becomes a matter of mass instruction rather than education. When a lecture is conducted in front of 300 or 400 students with the use of microphones there is little opportunity for communication between the lecturer and the students. 
The universities try to compensate for this position by making tutorial assistance available. The extent to which recurrent grants are not being made available to the universities will be reflected in the shortage of tutorial assistance for students. The student who most needs tutorial assistance, of course, is the struggling student, who has not the environmental help from his home background or from access to libraries that is available to other students. He tends to become a casualty in such a setup. I wish to quote a statement by Professor Williams as reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 25th March. He said: 
Under these conditions we cannot even maintain the quality of our work at a time when we should be raising it. 
As I said, this situation has been aggravated by the fact that no provision has been made for the payment of nonacademic salaries at universities. I have in mind a whole horde of staff, including technicians, assistants, and people concerned with the computers. Their salaries would have also risen with the 6 per cent national wage increase. 1 do not see any reference to them in this Bill. I do not know whether any provision will be made for that, but if no provision is made the universities will be that much worse off.  I  understand that at present more than 80 per cent of the recurrent incomes of universities comes from governments, that 17 per cent comes from students' fees and that 2.5 per cent comes from endowments. 
Another result of this financial stringency affecting universities is that the number of places in universities has had to be restricted not only because of the lack of lecture room and material resources but also because of the shortage of people who can be employed in universities as lecturers and professors. I understand that this year about 5,000 students who qualified by matriculating at quite good levels were unable to gain admission to one of the 3 Sydney universities - the University of Sydney, the University of New South Wales and the Macquarie University. Perhaps some of them could have been accommodated in colleges of advanced education or in institutes of technology but as a former lecturer in a teachers college I fear that many of the students who are unable to gain access to a university will enter a teachers college in order to try to get a tertiary education. Many of them will not be suited for teaching and will have no keen desire to become teachers, but because they cannot be accommodated by the universities they will turn to the teachers training colleges. There they will probably take a Science degree, an Economics degree or an Arts degree, and having obtained a Diploma of Education they will probably serve a year or two and then quit the teaching field. There are plenty of people in the community at present who are only too ready to pay off the bonds of those who have qualified as teachers in order to attract them into private employment or into other governmental employment. That is where many of them are now going. Unfortunately this is at the expense of education generally. 
Whilst we applaud the action of the Government in making available these grants which will enable salaries of academic staff to be increased, I cannot help regretting that in some ways the very act of providing these increases will take away from other levels of State responsibility in education and cause problems which will be reflected in later years when the students try to go to university. There are still many people who would go on to universities if they had a better secondary education, but to the extent that this will be limited by the distraction of funds from the universities, if I may put it in that way, it will cut down on the opportunities for many others to gain a tertiary education. With those reservations, I support the Bill. 
Is the Minister for External Territories aware of the widespread uncertainty and disquiet among expatriate employees in  Papua New Guinea regarding their future employment, promotion and superannuation rights? Does this apply particularly to employees who would have difficulty in obtaining comparable employment in Australia? Will the Minister accede to the many requests made to me in Papua New Guinea last week that a statement be made outlining what specific guarantees and provisions the Commonwealth will make to cover these employees? 
And they leave here later, too. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
I regret that we have to speak here at this time of the morning. It is about 40 hours since we started operations on Wednesday morning and most of us have had 1 or 2 hours sleep. I intend to keep my remarks as brief  as  I possibly can. I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  on behalf of the Opposition. It reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to increase the grant for schools conducted by a State to the same amount per pupil as the grant for schools not conducted by a State.' 
As the honourable member for Fremantle quite properly said, it is not our wish to take away from anybody, but it is our wish to make sure that students in State schools receive the same kind of assistance as is given to students in non-State schools. This 
Bill is quite important. Not only does it provide $43m, which is not an insignificant amount, but it lays down a science school programme for the next 4 years. What we are doing here in these early hours of this morning will be very important for many students who will pass through our high schools over the next 4 years. 
We are quibbling at the inequitable distribution of the $43m. As the House has been reminded, for the first 3 years of this scheme the per capita grants to students in State and non-State schools were almost similar. Without going into a lot of detail, I will take the year 1966-67 - the last year when this was the situation. In that year government school students received $12.32, Catholic school students $12.61 and other non-government school students $13.90. In other words, they received much the same. But in 1967-68 the Government decided to double the amount given to non-State school students. As a result of that the position now is - I am taking the round figures without the decimal points - that 75 per cent of the students who attend government schools receive only 60 per cent of the grant, whereas the other 25 per cent of the student population receive almost 40 per cent of the grant. This is quite inequitable. 
The reason given for doubling the amount for non-State school students and doing nothing about- the State school students was that the Commonwealth is now providing 5? 10m yearly by way of technical education grants. I am not fully familiar with what obtains in every other State, but I know that in my own State of New South Wales technical education is handled by a com pletely separate department; it has nothing whatsoever to do with the secondary education programme. Therefore it is quite irrelevant to talk about the $10m that is given to technical college students. They are just different people. It simply means that students in government schools are greatly disadvantaged as compared with students in other schools. As a result, it is quite true to say that many private schools with a good deal of affluence have received science blocks and science equipment well ahead of schools in the government system. I know of a big high school at Kogarah in my own electorate which has been waiting for a science block for quite some time. It is not just a case of all or nothing. A number of other high schools of which I am aware have only 2 science class rooms for quite a number of classes. So, there is an inadequacy of class rooms as well as of equipment. 
As 1 have already said, government schools with 75 per cent of the students receive 60 per cent of the funds, whereas non-government schools catering for 25 per cent of the students receive 40 per cent of the funds. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard a table which compares the distribution of students in the various systems - government, Roman Catholic and non-government other than Roman Catholic schools - with the relevant percentages of the $43 m that is being allocated under this Bill, and another table prepared by the Parliamentary Library Statistical Service and showing the per capita grants to government schools compared with those to schools in the other systems. 

<graphic href="072131197105063_126_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="072131197105063_127_0.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service from information contained in A Bill for an Act to grant Financial Assistance to the States for Science Laboratories and Equipment in Schools, Schedule, page 4 and School Enrolments 1970 (Preliminary) published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 

<graphic href="072131197105063_127_1.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service from information contained in A Bill for an Act to grant Financial Assistance to the States for Science Laboratories and Equipment in Schools, Schedule, page 4 and School Enrolments 1970 (Preliminary) published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
Those tables crystallise the point of the inequitability of these grants. All students in government schools in every State of Australia receive $36.83; for students in non-government schools the average is $73.82. In other words, the amount spent on non-government students is just about double that spent on government students. I am grateful to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  for allowing those tables to be incorporated in Hansard. 
It is quite apart from that. The deductions are another matter altogether. 
It has been suggested that the reason for this inequitable distribution is that government schools are getting technical facilities. I have referred to this already. But this does not happen with library grants. Commonwealth library grants are about equal on a per capita basis for students in all systems of education in all States of Australia. If honourable members refer to the table which I have incorporated in Hansard they will see a rather interesting variation as between different States. For instance, in Queensland 71 per cent of students are in government schools. One could think that they would probably get a fair bit more than half of the grant but, in fact, they get 48 per cent, which is less than half the grant whereas all non-government schools in Queensland, representing 28.7 per cent of the students, get more than half the grant - 51.96 per cent. In Western Australia the situation is much the same. Nearly 76 per cent of the students are in government schools but they get only 51 per cent of the grant. This is quite inequitable. I am sorry to have to use figures at this hour, hut 1 hope it registers with the Government just how inequitable is this distribution. It is not, as I have said, the sort of thing that applies in respect of the library grant. 
Even though the Minister does not agree, there is obviously not the same reliance on need as there was in the past. I challenge that there is a confrontation of the needs of private school students on the one hand, and government school students on the other. There might be confrontation of needs within the private school system but there is certainly no matching -of the needs of private schools with the needs of government schools. This is important. Not only is the distribution inequitable, but I suggest that it creates unbalance and at least a distortion, and it is altogether uneconomic. The Commonwealth has spent $80m-odd since this scheme started, but what is the result? This has been referred to already. Many of these costly scientific buildings and much of this scientific equipment are being uneconomically used. We hear frequently about expensive equipment lying around in laboratories simply because there are not enough qualified teachers to use them. This is not idle talk; I personally know of this situation. I am very much aware that there is a gross inadequacy of qualified science teachers in every State school and probably in many private schools. The shortage of science teachers and mathematics teachers in all of our school systems is notorious, so there is uneconomic expenditure in these fields. 
If the Government puts such priority on science education, it should go the whole hog and make sure that there are sufficient teachers to use the facilities. 
English teachers, geography teachers and other subject teachers are trying to teach science and hating every minute of it; and so are their students. I can guarantee this. It is most unfortunate. It is only latterly that a scientific look has been had at the science curriculum, if I can put it that way. There has been a good deal of hit and miss, much pragmatic experimentalism, with the science curriculum and science syllabuses. I am glad that now some research is being undertaken in this regard. All over the place there are complaints about the priorities in the learning programme. Many educationists think we are putting an undue emphasis - especially for many students - on science and science study levels. Many students are being led on to study science at higher levels than they are able to manage, and many other students who are doing science subjects have no liking, no ambition and no motivation for science. It seems that students are being pressurised into doing science to the disregard of social sciences. It is true, as I think the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  mentioned, that we are now trying to catch up, rather belatedly, with an investigation of a social science curriculum for introduction to schools. 
There is another form of distortion. This pre-eminence of science has been at the expense of other learning activities in the schools. A school may have a beautiful science building, most elaborate and well equipped, and, if it is lucky, good science teachers in it. But it may, side by side, not have an assembly hall for the kind of activities that can be conducted in it. There are shabby, shoddy looking buildings in which other activities have to be conducted. It has been put to me, and I am sure it has been put to the Minister and to the Government members' Education Committee, that at least in the State school systems it would have been better had they been given grants for education and allowed to make their individual judgments on priorities. The Government is foisting on many schools libraries which they do not need as much as they need other kinds of buildings and other kinds of equipment. The same is being dene in respect of science. As a result of identifying one particular segment of the educational programme there is a lopsided and distorted programme. 
The Bill provides for the expenditure of $43.295m over the next 4 years. This averages out at $10.83m a year. This is a reduction on the average expenditure of ti 2.573m over the last 4 years. In other words, almost $2m a year less will be provided. The Minister says that this reduction is proposed because we are nearing the end of the programme and because of the present economic position. I do not know how anyone can possibly forecast that we are nearing the end of a science building programme or any other kind of educational programme. After all, a recent survey of educational needs indicates that over the next 5 years, beginning this year, which is almost half gone, the State systems alone will need $ 1,443m extra for education. I do not know how anyone can forecast that we can tail off grants for any particular segment of education. Not only is there a reduction in the actual amount per unit being granted but also as everybody knows, these millions of dollars will not buy as much as they did a few years ago. If anything has gone up in price more than anything else, it is building costs, and this applies to science buildings and science equipment as much as it does to any other kind of building. So there has been erosion by inflation and also an actual reduction in the amount of things provided. Whilst it is true, as my colleagues have said, that there are unfortunately too few students, particularly in government schools and in Catholic schools, who are going right through their secondary educational programme, on the other hand every year there is an increase in the number of students who are staying on to complete a secondary education. As a matter of fact, enrolments in government schools are increasing at a rate greater than in either of the other 2 systems. In the years 1964 to 1968 enrolments in government secondary schools increased by 6.3 per cent each year and in all non-government schools by 4.4 per cent. So it can be said that government school enrolments are increasing by half as much again as those in nongovernment schools, and the Government proposes a programme that reduces the amount of expenditure and then further substantially prejudices the majority of students who attend the government school system. It is time we had a thoroughgoing research programme into the effectiveness of the science laboratories and equipment programme. 
Finally, I welcome the provisions that enable the presentation of annual reports to the Parliament so that members might be able to make some assessment of the position and to enable the Minister to make some adjustments to the programmes outlined in the Bill. I welcome the Bill for what it does but regret its inequality and its inequitability as it affects government schools. I would not do one thing to reduce what has been done to the other area of schooling - the Catholic schools and other non-government schools - but I would urge the Government to have another look at the well-being of the mass of students who go to our public schools. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What (a) Commonwealth and (b) State subsidies are paid in respect of the education of students in special schools for the physically or mentally handicapped. 
What age and other limitations apply in each case. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) undergraduate enrolments and (b) Commonwealth scholars in training were there in (i) Australian universities and (ii) colleges of advanced education in each of the years 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds thai the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of-certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and riot-control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament lake note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That Honourable Members urge upon (he Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it proposed to construct a parallel runway beside both, the north/south and east/west runways at Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport; if so, when. 
Have any public authorities registered an official protest against these plans; if so, which. 
Has the Commonwealth any proposal for the acquisition of additional land adjacent to the airport to facilitate extensions. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) Colombo Plan, (b) private and (c) other students from overseas are currently engaged in (i) undergraduate and (ii) postgraduate studies at Australian universities? 
What is the (a) race and (b) nationality of the students in each category? 
How many of the students in each category are attending courses for which quotas are imposed? 
What percentage of the total intake in these courses is represented by the number in each category? 
What concessions are made in regard to university entrance requirements for students in each category? 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister in his capacity both as Prime Minister and as a fellow resident of Australia's largest and most beautiful city. When will the Government relieve the anxiety of New South Wales State Ministers, planning authorities, local government bodies and the community generally by announcing the site for a second major airport to serve Sydney? How is it that after having had the interdepartmental inquiry report for nearly 12 months the Government can make only vague indications of an impending statement not necessarily involving a choice of site? Finally, does this delayed decision mean that it will be about the mid-1980s before Sydney will have an airport that can be used 24 hours a day? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory Is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Inquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to inquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is there any reason why the nongovernment schools component of the nation wide survey of educational needs has not been made public? Can the Minister now indicate what that survey indicated would be the additional needs of nongovernment schools over the 5-year period? Have the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria replied to the request from the former Prime Minister for additional details regarding their priorities in respect of educational needs referred to in the nation wide survey? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Minister's predecessor indicate, during the 1970-71 Budget session, that inquiries were being made into the possibility of including para-medical services in the national health scheme. 
If so, what progress has been made in inquiries. 
1 can quite understand the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  taking only half the time allotted to him if that is all he can say to defend the Government's very inadequate provisions in this Budget. He makes the point that pensioners should pay the penalty for the inflation in the community today and suggests that the reason why the Government could not make increases of a satisfactory standard in the Budget was because of its attempt to control inflation. Of course, as with all Government supporters who have spoken we heard a rehashing of the old story of how wages, strikes and so on are the causes of inflation. I wonder when I will hear some reference to the exorbitant interest rates charged in Australia today. This country pays about the highest interest rates of any country. I heard  Sir Henry  Bolte recently make mention of the tremendous burden placed on the economy by such high interest rates. There is also the land speculation that takes place today. What have wages to do with the price of a block of land, especially an undeveloped block of land? How many people are paying exorbitant prices for land in our cities and larger towns today? Then there is the cost involved in the Vietnam war and the exhausting efforts of our defence forces, the Fill fiasco and so on. All these things have to be loaded on to the costs of any economy and these are some of the reasons why pensioners and others dependent on social security payments are not receiving the payments they should expect to receive. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  said earlier that this Budget provided for a record expenditure on social welfare. I suppose every Budget brought into this Parliament will provide for higher expenditure than was provided before. Even if we do not increase any pensions, unemployment benefits, maternity benefits or child endowment, each year we would see an increase in the expenditure on social welfare simply because our population is forever increasing and because the number of people who are eligible for those benefits is increasing, So it is just futile and fatuous to talk about record expenditures. I suppose there are many ways in which we could evaluate what has been provided in this and other associated measures. One of the ways would be to look at how worth while are the provisions made in the legislation and to see how Australia fares in comparison with other countries in the provision of social welfare. 
The latest comparative figures available in respect of general Government expenditure on health and welfare as a proportion of the gross national product are the figures for 1968. They show that as a proportion of gross national product - that is, the value of all the goods and services any country produces in a year - Denmark spends 20.S per cent on its health and social welfare programme, the Federal Republic of Germany spends 18 per cent, Sweden spends  Hi  per cent, France spends 16.8 per cent, Italy spends 1S.8 per cent - honourable members will be wondering where Australia comes - the Netherlands spends 13.3 per cent, the United Kingdom spends 11.2 per cent, Norway spends 10.2 per cent, Canada spends 10.7 per cent and Australia spends 7 per cent. In other words, we spend about one-third as much as the country at the top of the list, Denmark, as a proportion of our gross national product. 
If we confine ourselves to expenditure on social services as distinct from social services and health and if we compare our expenditure with that of the European Economic Community, we find that it spends 1S.2 per cent whereas Australia spends 5.5 per cent, which is again onethird. One of the ways to look at this problem is to see how we measure up with what other countries do for their dependent people - the widows, aged people and invalids. Let us look at what the Budget does. I suppose it would be more interesting to look at what it does not do- One of the noteworthy things about it is that about 200,000 pensioners are not going to receive any benefits from this Bill or the 
Repatriation Bill. About 181,000 of the people affected by this Bill will receive no increase whatsoever and the rest of those comparable people on service pensions provided by the Department of Repatriation will miss out. 
The thing to remember is that the people who will miss out under this Bill are the very same people who missed out in April this year when the 50c increase was provided. Another 30,000 people will receive only part of the increases provided by this Bill. Then there are hundreds of thousands of others who were not covered by any of the previous legislation who, because of the existence of the means test, did not receive any pension whatsoever. The standard rate of pension payable to single people principally will be increased to $17.25. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said that this amount keeps up with the cost of living increases. He went on to say - I think, fairly correctly - that it more than compensates for the cost of living increases. I suppose that is one way of looking at it. 
Does the pension increase measure up to the rises in living costs that recently have taken place? I think that a more justifiable comparison would be: How does the pension now compare with the average adult male weekly earnings in the community, that is, with what the average male brings home each week? Measured against that, the standard rate of pension provides only 20.4 per cent of the average weekly earnings index. The pensioners thought that they ought to receive 30 per cent. That was a modest demand. They will receive only about two-thirds of the measure of prosperity in the community, or what the average weekly earnings provide. 
Pensioners on the married rate will each receive 18 per cent of average weekly earnings. There is no 30 per cent for them. Leaving all the statistics aside, pensioners, the people in retirement, will not receive anything like their fair share of the national prosperity. This is why the Opposition in its amendment condemns the provisions of the Bill. I am prepared to say that Class A widows, widows with dependent children, have come out of this legislation best of all. They will receive a reasonable increase, particularly in respect of dependent children. I am glad to see it. 
But I am sorry that there .has been no relief of the means test for such people. My colleague, the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  pinpointed another kind of widow who still receives a very inadequate share of the . benefits. She is called the Class B widow, the widow who has no dependent children and who is over the age of 50 and has not yet turned 60. She receives the same rate as the married pensioner. She does not receive the single rate of pension. As a result of the SI increase provided by this Bill she will receive $15.25 whereas, if she had turned 60 years of age, when her needs might have been less, she would have been eligible for $17.25 or $2 a week more. 
 I hope the Minister pays attention to these matters and that this will be reflected in some of the improvements . that are made each year. I hope that the Minister, if he has a chance in the next 12 months, and if there is not another change in the Ministry, will look particularly at the case of the Class B widow to see why she should not logically receive the same as any other single pensioner in the community. Then there is the matter of the dependent wife's allowance. The $7 weekly payment will be increased to $8. The usual case is that the husband has turned 65 and is receiving the age pension or has become an invalid, and his wife is not yet eligible for a pension. Then the wife will receive $8 a week. But is it fair to ask 2 people in this retired situation to live on a total of $25.25 a week? I do not think it is reasonable. Here again we ought to have some kind of rule that provides that when the husband reaches retirement age he and his wife should receive the married rate of pension even though she might not yet be the required age. 
One wonders what happens -to people where the husband having turned 65 is not classified as an invalid and his wife has not yet turned 60. In their case they receive only the one pension between the two of them. There is not even a wife's allowance applicable in such circumstances. I ask the Minister to look at that position also. Other members of the Opposition have made reference to the lack of portability in the Australian social security payments, particularly in regard to age pensions. I refer to those people who have become eligible for an Australian pension but who' for one reason or another have decided to go in their retirement to some other country. There will be a number of these people. Naturally enough, some of the immigrants who come here, after staying for a number of years and qualifying for an Australian pension by living here and paying taxes as good citizens, might decide to go home and live with their families in their years of retirement. It is quite proper that those people should be allowed to take their pensions with them. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  listed a number of countries which provide for portability of pensions. Such people, whether they be Australian born or born overseas, if they wish to spend their last days in some other country, should be allowed to take with them their Australian pension for which they have qualified. Countries like Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Holland, Italy, Malta, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Sweden, in certain limited circumstances, allow their people to take their pensions with them if they go to live in another country. In all humanity we should extend the same benefit here in Australia. 
Rent allowance or supplementary assistance is another thing that seems to have escaped attention in this year's Budget. The means test which is applied in the case of the rent allowance is a pretty rigid one. The maximum any person is entitled to receive is $2 a week. If the pensioner earns $3 a week the eligibility for the rent allowance ceases. There has been no easing of the means test in respect of this; there has been no increase in the rent allowance itself; there was never an application of the tapered means test to it; and it has become comparatively worthless. I remind the House that some 160,000 pensioners are dependent on this rent allowance. There are many other people who I think ought to be eligible but who miss out on it. I remind the House too that this lack of action in respect of the rent allowance is taking place at a time when rents have been literally skyrocketing. In reply to a recent question the Minister blithely admitted that he had no knowledge of what the average rents in the community were. I think he ought to have a look at them and see the justification for easing this means test on the rent allowance and for increasing it and extending it to other deserving people. 
One of the very notable things about this legislation relates to the means test. Instead of taking measures to get rid of it we have introduced new means tests. What we have in fact done is to make utter confusion out of what was already confusion. Most people have had great difficulty in following the application of the means test, and what difficulties they had in the past will be only small fry compared with what they have to contend with in this legislation. This comes from a Minister who has talked so much and written so much in newspaper articles and so on about the immorality, the injustice and the lack of economy in the imposition of the means test. 
It is true that he said so recently in Queensland. I think, to do him justice, that he personally believes that the means test is immoral, unjust and uneconomic. As a matter of fact, only a couple of years ago in support of the tapered means test, which was some move towards abolishing the means test, he said: 
In this field the proposal for a 'tapered means test', which is incorporated in the present Budget, is in itself the greatest step forward yet taken, to encourage thrift, self-help and self-reliance' not only among pensioners but, even more importantly, throughout the whole community. 
I approved of what he had to say on that occasion. This Bill, though, is a complete repudiation of what was said on that occasion. The Minister went on to say in a later part of that speech in 1969 about the tapered means test: 
. which is itself designed to add to national productivity, and which will thus, in the long run, create resources to offset the Budget expenditure. 
I have often heard the Minister say that in fact abolishing the means test would not cost nearly as much as a lot of people might think and that by increasing productivity and by discouraging people from spending their money abroad in order that they might come within the purview of the means test and by helping to stabilise our balance of payments position the abolition of the means test would be a good thing. This Bill is a complete repudiation of that whole philosophy. One of the sore points that I have struck in dealing with pensioners in respect of the means test is the fact that money paid in taxation is included in the calculation of the means test. Where a person earns some income by working, even though part of that income is lost in tax, the whole amount, including money paid in tax, is still regarded as income for means test purposes. I think that is most unfair. The Government gets the money; so why assume that it still belongs to the pensioner and use it to reduce his pension. 
I am afraid that time is passing me by but one of the things I would like to advocate strongly is the setting up df an inquiry into the operation of the whole social services structure. There is an obvious need to examine the whole hotch potch of our social welfare programme. There is a need to establish some rationale about the whole thing. As the honourable member for Perth said, we have to clarify what it is that we aim to do. What level of help ought we give? What provision ought there be for updating regularly our social service payments? To what criteria ought that updating be related? Who should get the fringe benefits and who should provide them? At the present time the provision of a lot of them is left to municipal councils and like bodies. Should we say that fringe benefits are a demeaning influence? Should we have a contributory scheme? Should we in fact be doing something about abolishing the means test and introducing a national superannuation scheme? I was very disappointed indeed today to see every Government supporter vote against the move by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to set up a select committee of this Parliament to inquire into the best means of establishing a national superannuation scheme. This is a sorry day for many people outside the Parliament who have been encouraged by the Minister to believe that something was about to happen in regard to national superannuation. Not only is it not happening but the Minister, on behalf of the Government, and every honourable member who supported him, today renounced any move to do anything in that regard. 
There are many things that I would have liked to have said on this Bill but which will have to wait till a later occasion. But I do want, before I finish, to stress the important points the Labor Party has been advocating in respect of social security. We believe that pensions should be at least 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We strongly urge that they be regularly and automatically adjusted - at least once a year. I mentioned in a previous speech that many countries make such regular adjustments. As I said earlier, the pension should be made portable so that people can take it overseas if they need to do so. 
There ought to be a national superannuation scheme set up at the earliest possible opportunity and there should be a progressive abolition of the means test. There ought to be a comprehensive inquiry into the present patchwork scheme with its many inequalities and inequities and the present departmental inquiries ought not be kept secret but ought to be made available to the public to peruse and to discuss. I refer to inquiries that have recently been made in the Department of Social Services such as the one about the care of the aged in Australia. Those things should not be kept a secret but should be made public. I support the Labor Party's programme to set up autonomous regional departments of welfare which will involve the co-operation of State, local and Federal authorities. I would like to see community service agencies such as we see operating in the City of Newcastle. These may be linked also with the Labour Party's programme for a genuine national health scheme and a national hospitals commission. We urge too that consideration be given to the welfare of the mentally and physically handicapped and I hope that full notice will be taken of the recent inquiry carried out by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare into this subject. 
I support the attitude expressed by my colleagues the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  to the Repatriation Bill. I will not spend a lot of time on this matter. I do not know why we are always put in the position of having to rush the Repatriation Bill through Parliament. We discussed the last Repatriation Bill in exactly the same circumstances as we are discussing this Bill. We are virtually talking about repatriation as we board the aircraft to go home. I think that shows the measure of the Government's regard for repatriation. 
When the Government brings before the Parliament a Bill as shabby as this one, I can understand why it wants to rush the measure through. 
On many occasions in the past we have discussed such Bills in the middle of the night. The Returned Services League has submitted to all members of Parliament that 2 principles should underlie repatriation legislation. The League asserts firstly that the very nature of life in the armed forces, especially in time of war, set apart as it is from other types of employment, ought to lead to appropriate compensation measures, medical treatment and rehabilitation as a compensation for such service. It asserts secondly, and I believe quite rightly, that a firm commitment was made by this nation to ali men and women who went to serve in the nation's defence. The commitment was that they would receive proper treatment should they need it after their service. I shall not go into all the figures that have been mentioned this afternoon. 
The Returned Services League, which represents most of the ex-service people in the community and speaks on their behalf, has put pretty simple and I believe thoroughly modest recommendations to the Government. The League asked for 4 things, as I recollect them. Firstly, it asked for an independent inquiry. To give the Government its due, it has announced that there will be an independent inquiry. But I am waiting, as are many other honourable members of this House, to see that inquiry actually instituted. I shall not go over the reasons which the Minister for Repatriation gave for the inquiry not having been instituted till now. Frankly, I think that committee could have been set up. I think it is well past the time to decide the terms of reference of such a committee. 
The second major claim made by the RSL was that there should be a complete review of Service pension rates. There is nothing like that in the Bill. The Minister would not pretend that there was. The League asked that the special rate pension, or what we know commonly as the TPI rate, be fixed at the level of the minimum wage. I understand that the minimum wage at the moment is $46.40. However, all that special rate pensioners are to be given is $42.50. Admittedly this is an improvement on the rate that is operating at present, but it is nearly $4 a week less than was asked for. The League asked that the 100 per cent general rate pension be $23.20 or 50 per cent of the minimum wage. However, no such provision has been made for the 100 per cent general rate pensioner or any other level of general rate pensioner. The same applies to the war widow. The League requested that the pension paid to war widows be 50 per cent of the minimum wage. Instead of receiving $23.20 the war widow receives $17.25. Admittedly she also receives a domestic allowance of S8 a week. The League also requested that all other pensions be increased proportionately. 
When 1 spoke yesterday on the Social Services Bill I mentioned that many social service, age and invalid pensioners would not get any increase whatsoever and that others would receive only a proportional increase. The same applies to Service pensioners under the Repatriation Bill. The League also asked for an assurance from the Parliament that in future all pensions would be automatically adjusted according to minimum wage adjustments. No provision and no assurance whatsoever to this effect has been incorporated in this Bill. 
For many years now the RSL has requested that repatriation, hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits be provided to all returned ex-servicemen of World War I and the Boer War. I speak subject to correction when I say that Boer War survivors as at May 1970, according to the latest figure available to me, numbered 286. It would not hurt this country very much to include these veterans in the priority given to those most in need. To help these 286 Boer War veterans would not place a very great demand on our resources. I believe that as at May 1970 there were 79,300 World War I veterans and that their average age was 75 years 4 months. It would not hurt the Government to help these people. Unfortunately the Government will not have to service these ex-servicemen for very long. 
The fourth major request of the RSL was that there should be an increase in the funeral grant from $50 up to $200. But not one cent extra has been provided in this Bill; the funeral grant still remains at the paltry figure of $50. A statement was made in the 'Repatriation Newsletter' setting out the Government's policy. The newsletter stated that the increase would benefit more than  135,000  people. But what are  135,000  compared to all those people who are in need of repatriation assistance? The statement continued: 
The Government this year has been mindful of the available resources and the allocation of funds between the many competing priorities within the community. 
What we are calling into question then is the Government's sense of priority. If there is a war on there is no trouble in getting assurances that these people will be looked after. There is no trouble at all in raising the funds to provide for the material of war. But when these people come back and they are sick or are partially or wholly unemployed because of their disabilities it is another matter. The priorities are never as great once a war is over as they are when it is on. 
The RSL also suggested informally to us - I am referring to the Labor Party's ex-servicemen's committee - that there ought to be a review of the Repatriation Board's practice. It suggested that the functions of the Board ought to be strengthened, and I heartily agree with that sentiment. The RSL said that the Board, if it rejects an ex-serviceman's claim for war compensation, should give reasons for the rejection, and I am sure that that sentiment would be popular with every exserviceman in Australia. The Board having given its reasons, it should then be possible for the applicant to confront the Board to discuss the reasons that have been given. In the short time available to me I cannot deal with the rationale behind that request.  1  will not delay the House any longer, except to call its attention to the reference made by my colleague the honourable member for Lang to what the new  President  of the New South Wales branch of the RSL,  Mr Hines,  said about veterans returning from the Vietnam war. Even people who have served in a war as recent as the Vietnam war have been denied adequate rehabilitation rights. One of the things that particularly impress me is the fact that these young men returning from service in Vietnam, where they have chanced their lives in the defence of Australia - whatever we might have thought personally about their involvement in Viet nam - complain bitterly about the inadequate rehabilitation treatment that has been provided for them. For one thing, they can receive only  1  year's full time vocational training or  2  years part time training. Why should they not receive the same period of training as was given to those of us who returned to Australia after World War II? Why should they not receive full vocational training? If it is a university course, why should they not receive a full course? After all, as I have said, they have chanced their lives in the defence of Australia. Other aspects of their rehabilitation which were raised by  Mr Hines  have been mentioned already by my colleague the honourable member for Lang. I believe that this Bill is woefully inadequate. It is one of the worst and shabbiest repatriation Bills ever introduced into this House. Therefore, I will vote strongly in support of the amendment. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I shall not say very much about what was said by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth). His  sentiments are well known. He is regarded as one of the ultra conservative people in the Government who is forever defending profits but who, on the other hand, makes a wholesale condemnation of wage and salary earners as being the arch priests and the architects of the price inflation which exists in the community. Of course, I did not hear the Minister have a go at the doctors when they were threatening to withhold their services unless the Government gave way and provided them with the kind of financial inducements that they required; I did not hear the Minister or any of his cohorts in the Ministry decry the farmers who marched down the streets of Melbourne because the Government was refusing to give them the kind of support to which they thought they were entitled; I did not hear the supporters of the Government deride the airline pilots when they wanted a salary increase. It is the ordinary wage earner in the community who is the butt of all Government attacks. Similarly, at the outset of his speech I heard the Minister say that it was the Government's sense of responsibility that prevented it from doing all that it wanted to do in this Budget. I suppose it was that same sense of responsibility that has prevented the Government from giving help to thousands, of elderly people in nursing homes who are paying upwards of $30 a week and it was the same sense of responsibility that prevented it from providing assistance to kindergartens to help mothers with children in such places while they go to work. 
I should like to say something about a few items in this Budget. I want to talk about the spending slump and the Budget's misguided strategy. I want to make a closer examination of the factors influencing prices. I should like to say a few words about the neglected nationwide survey of educational needs and, if I have time, I should like to talk about the lack of Government planning in this nation. To my mind, the general view of the Budget seems to have been aptly expressed in an article written by David Lowe and published in the 'Sunday Australian' on 12th September. 
He said, amongst other things: Our  whole economic growth potential is being shcakled to deal with one internal structure problem - cost push inflation 
Later the article stated: 

 Mr Lynch says it requires a change in manage ment attitudes. More to the point it requires a change in Government attitudes. Government is the job of governments, not of business. 
All the commentators that I have read in recent times are indicating to the Government that it is about time it made use of those powers that have now been confirmed by the High Court, in devising more effective means for controlling the price structure as well as other elements in our national economy. I have indicated that I regard this as being a very misguided budget strategy and that view is supported by what is a friend, I suppose, df the Government - the Australian Industries Development Association. In its recent bulletin for September  1971  it said in part: 
The I960- 
Everybody remembers  1960-61,  of course, the year of the great credit squeeze -  fiscal measures overkilled the- boom that was well on the way to petering out. In 1971-72 the Budget sets out to dampen excessive demand that is not there. 
Among the facts cited in support of this view is the fact that personal consumption expenditure at constant prices increased by only  2.7  per cent in  1970-71,  the lowest increase, I might remind the House, since  1965-66  when it was  2.6  per cent and the same as the increase in  1960-61,  a year of depressed economic activity. So in fact there has not been any upsurge in personal consumption so what is all this story about inflation being caused by such factors. Matching this there has been a decline in private investment expenditure. The same body as T quoted a while ago - AIDA - says: 
Business must bc alarmed at the Government's fiscal measures. 
It goes on to say: 
Increases in company tax, in Post Office charges - 
I am sorry the Minister for Social Services is leaving the House because he would see in his own budget measures some of the real roots of inflation -  in excise duties on motor spirit and other fields can only add to the escalation of costs and prices throughout the economy. 
It does not require any great sophistication to recognise that if we build into a budget these extra taxes and charges we must expect that they will have an effect on the price spiral. The Commonwealth statistician's figures show that in the  6  months to December  1971  it is expected that new capital spending is expected to rise by only  7  per cent as compared with  18  per cent in the previous  6  months to June this year. This prompted the economist for the 'Australian', Kenneth Davidson, to make this remark: 
So far-  and I think we should all take notice of this in view of what the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had to say today -  most of the statistical evidence which has emerged since the Budget has pointed to  a  steeper downturn in the business circle than the Government expected. 
He went on to say: 
This is likely to show up in an even higher level of unemployment than the Government had planned as a result of the deflationary, Budget. 
Then we got the news yesterday that unemployment increased by over  7  per cent during the last month. It now stands, on seasonally adjusted figures, at  75,000.  It is expected that if this trend continues unemployment by February next year - not a long time away - could reach  120,000.  We have to remind ourselves that approximately  180,000  young people are about to leave school and will be in the market seeking jobs. From my personal observation around the place - having youngsters of this age group myself - jobs will be a lot harder to get during the remainder of this year. Even those who are already soliciting jobs for the Christmas vacation are finding them ever so much harder to tie up than they have been in previous years.  1  want to say just a little more on this business of price inflation. The Minister, of course, was all out to indicate - as were plenty of other Government supporters - that increasing wages were the real cause of inflation in the community today. While the Government has been preoccupied with slamming wage earners for their' alleged part in causing inflation it has had preciois little to say on the influence of the finance industry in Australia in recent times. Why should it say anything about the finance industry - the hire purchase companies, the extra-banking institutions in the community? They are well known for their financial support to the Liberal Party so why should the Government criticise them? But let us just have a look at the recent profits of some of the bigger of these financial institutions. The Commercial and General Acceptance Ltd set a commanding lead in the 1970-71 profit stakes by a 40.5 per cent jump in net earnings over the previous year. Custom Credit Corporation Ltd - another big one - had a profit gain of 31.3 per cent. Associated Securities Ltd increased its profit by 30.2 per cent and the Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd by 25 per cent. IAC (Holdings) Ltd, the other one of the big 5, has not yet disclosed its profit because it does not balance its books until December. Just from these few examples we have some indication of where price inflation derives in this country today. It is not all a matter of wages and salaries. 
The link between these big institutions and various private banks is well known. The question is: How long will it be before the Government takes steps to bring these extra-banking institutions under the same controls as apply to banking?  Dr Harold  Bell, the economic adviser to the Australian Mutual Provident Society and a very respected economist in our community, in a paper titled 'Desirable Developments in Economic Management in Australia' in June this year said, amongst other things: 
In total, however, and especially having regard to associations with multi-national corporations or large international financial groups,, the quasi banking structure outside the inner circle of the officially and directly controlled banking structure and authorised money market is now a highly significant element in the Australian economy. 

 Dr Bell went on to say: 
While these operations are inevitably affected by monetary policy there is. lacking that directness of control that applies to the . official banking and money market structure. 
In other words, these big financial institutions are setting a hot pace in profit making in the business of dispensing finance in our economy and, of course, anyone knows that a rise of 1 per cent or even half of 1 per cent in the rate of interest as it pervades Tight through the economy can add greatly to our cost structure. Of course, there was not a word about that from the Minister.  Dr Bell  went on to spell out the need for more information about the amount of short term hot money pouring into Australia. He said:  . . it  is fair to say that in some important areas of activity the paucity of satisfactory information stems largely from reactionary inertia. 
In other words, a Tory conservative government here has a policy of 'hands off the big financiers' whether they be local or international.  Dr Bell  went on to say that Canada's study of its situation of international hot money pouring into the country puts our meagre official sources of information to shame'. That is just the position. We do not know what is the effect of this finance, and this Government could not care less how these big financiers are exploiting the Australian community. 
The previous Prime Minister the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  made no bones about what caused a steep rise in the consumer price index for the last December quarter. He claimed that about 42 per cent of the rise was due to budget increases - this is last year's Budget we are talking about now - in excise on cigarettes, wine and petrol, and in telephone rental charges, postage and so on and yet we get a repeat of it in this year's Budget. Then the Prime Minister gets up and says: 'Does the Opposition know what causes inflation?' The Prime Minister may well look at what his predecessor had to say about the effect of budgetary increases and these regressive forms of taxation and charges for public services. On 23rd February of this year a very eminent person who ought to be acceptable to the Liberal Party - the Liberal Premier of Victoria no less - was reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' as saying that a 6 per cent wage rise granted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was a contributory factor to inflation, but not the only cause.  Sir Henry  Bolte said: 
I would place interest rates ahead of wage rises as a cause. 
He went on: 
If there hadn't been a 7 per cent bank rate, there wouldn't have been a 6 per cent wage rise. 
This put the finger right on a basic problem of the Australian economy today. The simple fact is that this Australian economy has the highest, or nearly the highest, interest rates in the world. It is no wonder that hot money pours in here. The Government takes credit that it, as a so called stable government, is attracting this kind of investment. Of course the Government will attract that kind of money if it is prepared to leave the Australian economy wide open. 
I would now like to turn to one other important matter that was not mentioned in the Budget - that is the nationwide survey into education needs in Australia. This survey, honourable members might remember, was to cover the needs of both government and non-government schools in primary, secondary and teacher education for the 5-year period from 1971 to 1975. It was estimated as a result of this survey that there would be required from the Commonwealth over this period an additional $ 1,443m to bridge the gap between the needs of the 6 States and their anticipated funds likely to be available to meet those needs. As I have said, we have to remember that this estimate referred only to primary, secondary and teacher education. It said nothing about pre-school education, education of the handicapped or technical education. The sum of $l,443m refers only to the government sector of state education in Australia. There was a survey of the requirements of nongovernment schools but so far, for some unfathomable reason, the Commonwealth will not reveal what the survey showed would be needed by them over the 5-year period. The Commonwealth now claims that as a result of adjustments in the financial arrangements between itself and the States at the last 2 Premiers' Conferences, the States have been provided with enough extra finance to meet the needs as measured by the survey. As yet the Commonwealth has provided neither the Parliament nor the public with any information or analysis to back up its claim. It should be done at once. 
With the assistance of the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service I have endeavoured to analyse the position from such information as is available. Because of the number of assumptions that have to be made, in the absence of definite information, it is almost impossible for me to know whether the gap between educational needs and anticipated State finances can be closed. At least in respect of capital needs - school buildings, equipment, land and so on - it seems most unlikely on the analysis I have made that the States will have anything like the necessary funds available oyer the 5-year period. That would require an estimated growth in capital funds of almost 28 per cent. But Commonwealth capital grants to the States in 1971-72 amounted to only 4.5 per cent. One has to remember that $722m was the estimated extra capital requirements over the 5-year period. Another $722m was the extra recurrent expenses required. 
Here again 1 remind the House that I am talking about only the government sector. Neither Parliament nor the public, as I have said before, has ever been told how the huge deficiency in anticipated capital and recurrent funds, amounting to $ 1,443m, was to be met. It could have been in 5 equal instalments over the 5 years. If so, the Commonwealth was being asked to provide $228m extra for state education in each of the 5 years. If that was the proposition, then the new CommonwealthState financial arrangements will go nowhere near meeting that target in the first couple of years. I remind the House that it is a 5-year period. 
The other alternative is that the extra funds required would be on a statistically projected  scale upwards. The research shows that in this case the extra funds needed in 1971-72 would be something of the order of $65m to $70m. This would be probably a manageable amount. But by 1975 the amount required would have progressively risen to about $570m extra for that financial year. If this is to be the pattern of assistance to state education it will be in dire trouble from about 1973 onwards. As a matter of fact if is already in dire trouble. This situation applies to government and non-government schools. 
It must be remembered also that in all the calculations it has been assumed that the States will maintain the high priority that they have given in their budgets to education over recent years. There can be no guarantee of that because the States have been saying that they have been driven to make a high proportion of their funds available for education to the neglect of so many other sectors of their economies. In fact the basic assumption in estimating these needs over the next 5 years is that the States would increase their allocation by 10 per cent each year. It was in spite of that growth of expenditure from the State's own resources that they estimated that another $l,443m would be needed from the Commonwealth. 
As I said, this calculation takes no account of the non-government schools; it does not take any account of those other sectors of education which I mentioned. As a matter of fact, the strong indicators are that the State governments are not in a much better position to meet these extra requirements of education. If this was not so, why would the States be making great increases in taxation and charges that they themselves are making? Why would they, for instance, increase payroll tax by 40 per cent, hospital charges by 50 per cent and sometimes more, and transport charges by over 50 per cent? Why would they introduce new taxes? All of these things indicate that the States are probably in little better condition now to meet these massive needs of education than they were before the recent financial agreements. 
I conclude by saying this: This Budget does nothing to correct the basic economic and social imbalance in our society that is typified by flourishing financiers amid squalid schools, pensioner poverty and rural rot. After 22 years of LiberalCountry Party coalition governments our national legacy is one of car-choked cities, a continuing and increasing drain of people away from the countryside into overcrowded urban areas, exorbitantly inflated land prices in' a continent with land literally to burn, usurious interest rates that rank among the world's highest and growing government sponsored inequalities of opportunity that increasingly favour the privileged as against those whose only inheritance is need and want. 
I imagine that I could not have a better pamphlet to distribute at the next election campaign than the speech just rendered by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan).  I imagine that his colleague the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  will be particularly grateful for the honourable member's continued support for the development of Towra Point. 
Well, let the honourable member tell that to his colleague, the honourable member for Cook and see what he has to say about the development of Towra Point. I do not intend to delay the House for long but  1  must speak on behalf of the thousands of people I represent in the electorate of Barton and on behalf of my colleagues in this House against the Government's procrastination over this business. This has been a fob-off from go to whoa. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise was set up in the latter part of  1968  and now the Government plans to establish yet another commitee. The Government should not think that the people in these areas are fools. The people recognise what the Government is doing - that it is just procrastinating, prolonging and fobbing-off the decision in the hope that it will get through yet another election without making a commitment on this matter. I can assure honourable members opposite that with the assurance that there will be a duplication of runways at Mascot, they can forget about winning electorates in the metropolitan area of Sydney. What the honourable member for McMillan does not recognise is that even the present runway extension of  13,000  feet does not mean that there will be any relief from the use of the east-west runway. The report indicates that there could be a proportionately increased use of the east-west runway by aircraft that will be using Mascot Airport. I grant honourable members opposite that the only predictable relief predicted will be during the night curfew hours between  11  p.m. and  6  a.m. More planes will be taking off and landing over the Botany Bay approach. 
What the honourable member for McMillan is suggesting - it would be interesting to know how many of his colleagues support his view - is that because so much money has been spent on Mascot, it can be economic only if it is used 24 hours a day. Is that the view of the Government? This is what the people who are affected by this problem want to know. If what the honourable member has said represents the view of the Government, at least we know where we stand in the matter. But what the honourable member does not take into account is that we are concerned not only with the matter of noise. Other important factors are associated with this problem. 
The people who live in these densely populated areas close to the airport have the ever constant worry in their mind that if one of these big aircraft crashed a terrible tragedy would occur. It would be a pity for this to happen and then for us to say: 'Well, we should not have acquiesed to the proposal'. I think of some of the institutions in my electorate. Never mind about the residential areas. I bring to mind some of the major institutions in my electorate and in the adjoining electorate of St George. I think of the St George District Hospital with, at any time, in excess of  1,000  patients in it. I think of the St George Technical College with more than  1,000  students attending it at any one time. I think also of the densely populated area of Brighton-le-Sands and the districts surrounding it. 
The other matter to be considered is that of property values. What do honourable members think that this decision will mean for people who own properties in the areas close to Mascot Airport? What chance has any person who intends to leave the district - who intends to retire perhaps into the salubrious electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  - of selling his or her property? What chance has such a person when it is known that the east-west and north-south runways are to be duplicated? What will happen to the value of the property owned by such people? 
What will happen to the schools in the area, for ever battling against the ever constant noise that interferes with lessons in their classrooms? What about the position with regard to church services? Local congregations have protested to me since 1 first entered this Parliament. My colleague, the honourable member for St George  (Mr 
Morrison) was good enough to quote from what I said in the first speech that I delivered in this Parliament in 1959. I then beseeched the Government not to continue with further development of Mascot but to seek some other site outside the metropolitan area. 
At that time, I nominated Richmond. I mentioned Richmond because what is involved is not only a matter of ground space but also a matter of air space. The trouble is that, with the Royal Australian Air Force located at Richmond, the possible sites for a second airport in Sydney have been inhibited. Personally, I would ask that the RAAF be shifted from Richmond. Such a move would extend the range of possible areas in which a second airport could suitably be located. 
I am worried and my constituents are worried by the prolonged delay over this decision. The decision on the location of the second airport for Sydney should have been made at least 5 years ago. We should not have gone on with the development that has taken place. We should be well on the way to the establishment of Sydney's second airport by now. Instead of that, we will have this saturated development of an area of 1,600 acres. This area will be the site of absolutely saturated development in which the Government will get the last drop that can possibly be squeezed out of that area which is situated so close to so many of the heavily populated areas of our city. 
As the Government has gone as far as it has and as it has delayed a decision as long as it has, I beseech it even at this late stage to reach an early decision on the location of the second airport for Sydney. The important thing is that, once having made its decision the Government should get on with the job of building the second airport. In his speech, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  indicated that it will be some time in the 1980s before relief is provided to the people in the areas surrounding KingsfordSmith Airport. In that time, not only the people in the electorates of Barton, St George and Kingsford-Smith but people in approach areas on the north shore and in the eastern suburbs will be affected. The problem is not confined to the immediate areas around the airport. 
So, I make this plea: Let people count before planes. Let the environment for people and their well being count for more than bringing people into the heart of Sydney a few minutes earlier than they might otherwise have arrived there. I do not wish to delay the House unduly but let me repeat what I have said before: The need is not for a major airport to be located so close to Sydney. The Minister has said that Mascot is ideally situated. I wonder in whose terms it is ideally situated. Let the Minister conduct a poll of all of those people - the thousands of them, not an insignificant number - who live close to the metropolitan area of Sydney to determine whether they believe that Mascot is ideally situated. It may be ideally situated for people who pour into Sydney from other Australian cities or from overseas. It may be ideally situated for those people but they are not required to live in the area day and night. These people come in once or twice in a year perhaps. To those who live in the area all the time the decision announced tonight is a most unfortunate one. The delay is most unfortunate also. 
So, I can give this assurance: There will be great resistance if the Government has in mind anything along the lines of the view presented by the honourable member for MacMillan. If the Government has any idea of lifting the curfew to introduce services 24 hours a day into and out of Mascot, it will strike mighty resistance. I will not mind being associated with that resistance. I do ask the Government to get on with the job, to make a decision and to start work on the building of the second airport so that the people in my electorate and surrounding areas may obtain relief. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics' 'publication University Statistics 1970 Part 1, on page 37, footnote (a) state, inter alia, that the University of Newcastle now waives all fees for teacher trainees and is reimbursed from recurrent grants: the source of these students is now shown as University instead of State Governments. 
What was the basis of this change in financial arrangements. 
What are the implications of the change. 
Are any similar arrangements being considered for teacher trainees attending other universities. 
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation, upon notice: 
When did be announce that an independent inquiry would be conducted into the Repatriation system. 
Has the committee of inquiry "been appointed; if not, when will it be appointed. 
What is, or will be, the composition of the committee. 
What are the committee's terms of reference. 
Will the inquiry be conducted in public. 
I rise to support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  Just to remind the House, I will read the amendment again. It states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of opinion that a joint select committee should be established to investigate and report upon accidents involving international aircraft and the serious problems of Qantas and the South Pacific route'. 
I want to say something at the outset about the Government's abject surrender on the recent negotiations with the United States of America in the matter of air routes and aircraft flights into and out of Australia and the United States. What did the deal achieve? As a result of the deal, Qantas Airways Ltd has a right to fly 4 Boeing 747 jets a week into the United States. 
That is right, in place of 8 of its Boeing 707 flights. In other words, the seat capacity of Qantas will be lifted by 200 passengers. It would now be permitted to land1,850 passengers in the United States each week. What do the United States companies get? There are 2 of them in question, Pan American World Airways and American Airlines Inc. Between them they get a boost of 500 seats, not 200 as did Qantas, bringing their total now to 2,400 as against the 1,850 of Qantas. Pan Am had to give up only one 707 flight a week to enable it to lift its 747 quota from 2 to 3 flights a week. I think most honourable members will now know that a 747 carries2ยฝ times as many passengers as does a 707 and yet Pan Am was allowed to substitute one 747 for one 707. This is a measure of our giveaway in negotiations with the United States. American Airlines gained a boost of 2 flights to bring its total to 5 Boeing 707 flights a week. I will quote one informed observer, Warren Beeby, writing in the Australian' of 26th September. He said: 
So an already unprofitable cross-Pacific run is going to become more so, with an even greater number of seats available for the trickle of passengers. 
I listened to the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  earlier. He said we had no worries about this matter, that traffic was being generated that would take up this slack and make use of the full seating capacity. But what did the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  have to say ever so recently - as a matter of fact on 12th May 1971 - when he was expressing concern over extra United States flights? He was not in any way complacent. The Press statement that he issued said in part: 
The Australian Government was deeply concerned about applications by, United States airlines to operate extra passenger flights across the South Pacific, the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Robert  Cotton, said today. 
These applications if approved- and I take it they have now all been approved - will intensify the existing over-capacity situation on the South Pacific route which is already resulting in poor passenger loads for the airlines,' he said. 
A little further on in the statement he said: 
During the negotiations, the United States representatives claimed that the capacity increase, they sought would strengthen considerably traffic growth in the Australia-United States market. 
That is something along the lines of what the honourable member for Mitchell said tonight. But the Minister went on to say: 
Since August 1970 when all these arrangements came into operation, the growth rate bad in fact declined. 
The Qantas load factor which was then 40 percent had dropped substantially until in recent months it was averaging under 30 per cent. 
What we are doing is carting empty seats all around the world at great cost to those of us who have to pay the bill for this great Government airline, to help it keep Australia's banner flying over foreign fields. I agreed wholeheartedly with the honourable member for Newcastle when he said that we should have been able to expect a more stout hearted effort by the Australian representatives and the Australian Government in these negotiations. We could have told Pan Am that if our 747s were not to be admitted to the United States without our making these further concessions we would not admit Pan Am to Australia. This is not being anti-American, or no more anti-American than Americans are anti-Australian when they prevent Australian beef from entering America except under quota or when they prevent Australian wool entering the United States market. It is simply a cold matter of economics. We could have gone on to cancel the options of Trans-Australia Airlines - as the honourable member for Newcastle suggested - on four 727 200 series stretched aircraft. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for Newcastle for reminding us that in recent years Australia has spent $560m purchasing aircraft from the United States. Notably this does not include the Fill with its astronomical cost. This $560m was spent in the United States over the last 10 years. Now the Australian Government has agreed to more seat capacity at a time when aeroplanes on the average are only one-third full. As 1 look at my file I am reminded of some of the people who have had to pay for this grossly uneconomic enterprise, some of the young people whom Qantas recently recruited as trainee pilots. Some of them live in my electorate. Without mentioning his name, one of them wrote to me to give me an indication of some of the people who are paying the price for this shortsighted view taken by Qantas. This gentleman joined the Royal Australian Air Force in March 1962. He flew Canberras in Vietnam in 1968 and then converted to Fills in America. He left the service in March 1971. He was approached by Qantas and offered a job. It was suggested he would have a very good career with Qantas. He held the rank of Flight Lieutenant when he left the RAAF on a salary of $8,600, plus all the other benefits that go with belonging to the RAAF. He joined Qantas on a salary of $4,377 on the promise, of course, that he would in fairly quick time get the promotion that would more than reimburse him for what he was giving up in the RAAF. Six weeks after joining Qantas he was given notice of retrenchment. He is a married man. He has been trained to this life and his training has little application outside the career he has chosen. Therefore he may well be one of the fellows who is doing part time taxi work in the streets of Sydney. Another gentleman in my electorate who sat for the Queensland Senior Public examinations and matriculated in 1966 went on to accept a cadetship with Qantas. He wrote to me and said: 
In July 1967 I gained a Qantas Cadet Pilot Scholarship and commenced training in Sydney in August of that year. 
The Qantas Scholarship required the applicant to reside in Sydney and also to provide the first S500 expenses, including the cost of 30 hours basic flying. In addition f was required te enter into a $2,000 bond, which covered the training course ana the first 5 years as a pilot with Qantas 
Without reading further, that shows that he was yet another one of the casualties of the recent retrenchment by Qantas. While Qantas is doing this it is going on to spend something of the order of $28m on a fifth 747. We have been talking about the 4 747s that Qantas is putting on the run to the United States, but it has taken out an option on a fifth at a total cost of S28m. It is also spending $18m on new computer equipment which is not expected to reach full capacity until 1985. So they found a way of economising by sacking the likes of the 2 gentlemen I have referred to. They sacked 138 pilots, 96 second pilots and 42 cadets. These savings will be only marginal and, as I have suggested in written correspondence to the Minister, they will be a very short term economy at that. It may have been better for Qantas to keep these people on because they would have been a good investment for the future if, as has been said tonight, there is optimism felt that a greater market will be generated. It might not be so easy to get these people in the future. A very interesting article appeared recently in the 'Financial Review' headed. 'Australia Charged with High Air Fare Restrictionism The article criticised Australia's adherence to the high air fare system as propagated by the International Air Transport Association which is virtually a monopoly organisation. The article said: 
The commonest explanation is that Qantas is Australian jingoes' expensive toy, designed not to connect that remote land to the rest of the world but to give patriots pleasure at seeing the red kangaroo on foreign fields. 
If so, the pleasure is largely vicarious, since high fares are stopping Australians getting on to foreign airfields to see Qantas planes. 
The article quotes 2 aviation economists from the Exeter University in the United Kingdom, M. H. Cooper and A. K. Maynard, as saying that the only certain result of the IATA cartel - which, incidentally, is keeping up air fares all around the world with the result that aircraft are flying backwards and forwards across the Pacific one-third full - is high costs, low load factors and expensive new aircraft. The article continued and asked a question which has often occurred to me: Why is it that perfectly sound planes are being written off before they are depreciated, and unwanted technological progress is being forced on consumers who are given no opportunity to show that they might prefer lower fares? The situation can be likened to that applying in the motor vehicle industry. A car becomes obsolete within 12 months so that a market can be generated for a new model. This is appeal to snobbery; appeal to status symbolism. We are forever chasing more expensive and more exotic aircraft when, in fact, the public might be content for the time being with existing aircraft which are safe, sound and comfortable. Instead of expending money in developing other and better aircraft we should concentrate on lowering fares, making it possible for more people to fly across the world. Keeping fares high encourages competition from inefficient competitors. This is happening. By keeping fares up we are encouraging competition with Qantas. At present Qantas has 17 competitors on the routes out of Australia. lt is incredible that there should be no fewer than 17 competitors in a country which has a population as small as Australia. Keeping up air fares is enticing other competitors into the field and, of course, we are bound to make reciprocal agreements with the countries from which they come. 
I have been an admirer of Qantas for some time. The aircraft are excellent and the service from those people who look after passengers is marvellous. I have no quibble about Qantas but I only wish its services were available to. more people. In my modest view Qantas should show more enterprise and aggression in capturing markets around the world. Unfortunately I do no have time to canvass the question of charter flights. Australia is well behind the 8-ball in this regard. Many other countries and airlines have come into this business. They have captured many of the passengers who ordinarily would have travelled with Qantas. It is common knowledge now that if people want to go to London the best and most economical way is to travel by scheduled flight with Qantas or another airline to Singapore or Kuala Lumpur and there pick up any one of the charter flights which are run by other countries. Those charter flights carry the passengers on to London for infinitely less than what is charged by the scheduled airlines. As a result there has been a tremendous depletion in Qantas passenger traffic. No wonder this airline is in its present position. Its profit has been reduced to a modest $5m, which is substantially less than its former profits. 
In a public statement on 2nd August of this year the Minister for Civil Aviation was reported to have said that last March the Department of Civil Aviation wrote to Qantas asking for its current views on the establishment of a charter subsidiary. The initiative was not taken by Qantas. It apparently had to be prodded by the Department of Civil Aviation which, in effect, said: 'We can see what is going on. What do you think about it? Should you not look at the situation? Have you considered running a subsidiary charter line of your own to make fares much lower and to compete with all those other airlines which are operating charter flights?' At long last, after prodding, Qantas and the Government have agreed that Qantas should set up a subsidiary airline. 
Qantas should be concerned not only with charter flights but also with air cargo. Australia is isolated from the rest of the world and there should be an admirable opportunity for a go ahead enterprising airline to get into the air cargo business. 
According to comments that I have heard from members of the Airline Federation, air cargo is regarded by Qantas as a second best sort of thing. But air cargo business is expanding rapidly. Australia needs to be aggressive to get its share of this market and to win freight from foreign-owned shipping lines. There is much to be won. Most of the cargo exported from Australia is carried by other nations. We have a chance to get into this field, but we have not done much about it. World wide, cargo has increased by over 18 per cent per annum since 1964, but less than .02 per cent of it is carried by air. There could be more enterprise in capturing some of this cargo. It has been suggested that the 707 aircraft which will be superseded by the 747 aircraft could be used for the carriage of air cargo. They would be admirable for that purpose. It is not suggested that cargo carriers should fly the scheduled passenger routes, which is what happens now. They could be more flexible and carry cargo to destinations that are not relevant for passenger traffic. If Qantas entered this field it would do much to reduce the invisible debits in Australia's balance of payments as well as making Qantas that much more viable economically. Despite increased total freight in and out of Australia over the last 5 years, the air carriers have not been able to increase their percentage of the cargo, so there is need for more drive and enterprise in seeking additional business. Among other things there is the need for flexibility of routes, which I have mentioned. 
It is suggested that at present the industry lacks ground handling and delivery expertise. According to comments that I have heard, Qantas has not been particularly good in this regard. Persons in the industry say that Qantas would be a lot better off if it handed over forwarding arrangements to people who specialised in this field. At the moment there is much misgiving about Qantas - when the traffic will arrive; what its condition will be on arrival; and when it will be delivered? There are people who specialise in the preparation of documents, customer billing, extension of credit, collecting of charges, accounting, distributing, manifesting, labelling, palletising or containerising. These are specialist tasks and it is suggested that Qantas, like BOAC, should establish a close relationship with a group of specialist agents throughout the world and get into the business of air cargo traffic. 
Unfortunately 1 do not have time to refer to some other matters that I wanted to discuss. I am sorry that we are still waiting to determine a site for a second airport to serve the metropolitan area of Sydney. A committee was set up at the beginning of 1969 but we are almost into 1972 and the best information that we have gained is that yet another committee will be established to try to locate a site for the second airport. We have been told that having decided where it will be, it will be the best part of 10 years from when work starts before the airport becomes operational. This does not seem to worry the Minister for Civil Aviation. He prophesied that Sydney would probably need a second airport in the early 1980s. He should visit my electorate and the adjacent electorates of St George and Kingsford-Smith and ask the people whether they think it would be appropriate to have a second airport for Sydney some time in the 1980s. That airport should have been planned about 10 years ago. It should be almost ready for opening but, instead, we will make saturated use of a 1,600 acre plot at Kingsford-Smith Airport. I warmly support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
I address a question to the Minister for Education and Science. Is it a fact that the Government has refused consistently over the years to make its own national inquiry into the needs of primary, secondary, technical and teacher education in Australia? Did it instead ultimately agree to co-operate with State Education Ministers and private education authorities in making what was stated to be a coordinated nationwide survey according to agreed upon criteria? Did not the then Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science participate in reviews of the report before it was presented? Was it not at Commonwealth direction that the survey of private school education was repeated to conform with Commonwealth requirements? Finally, why is it that after all these consultations and opportunities for the Commonwealth Government to influence the report it now proceeds to rubbish it? 
I, too, want to speak to that section of the Estimates relating to the Commonwealth Taxation Office. Might I say at the outset that I was rather impressed with some of the information pamphlets that were brought back from New Zealand by a friend of mine. These pamphlets are very well illustrated and they are most helpful to the taxpayers. I am well aware that in Australia as taxation time comes around each year a spate of articles appear in the daily newspapers and other kinds of periodicals but in my view they are no substitute for what the New Zealand Inland Revenue Department has produced. Each of these information pamphlets deals with different sections of taxpayers. One deals with salary and wage earners. Another is a guide for farmers. Another deals with the self employed and those who pay provisional tax. There are very well illustrated examples worked out and I am sure they are of great assistance to taxpayers. As a matter of fact when I looked through the one dealing with wage earners and salary earners I could not help noticing some provisions in the New Zealand taxation system that could well be copied by Australia. I notice, for instance, that donations to the Freedom from Hunger campaign, the Save the Children Fund and the Volunteer Services Abroad fund, all worthwhile causes, attract deductions from taxation in New Zealand. Most members here are well aware of the grievance many taxpayers have felt over recent years as a result of the disallowance in this country of donations to those very worthy international organisations. Another provision that attracted my notice was that cash donations to State schools and parent-teacher associations are allowable deductions. In this country only- regular annual subscriptions to such bodies are permitted as a taxation deduction. In New Zealand any contribution that is made towards the welfare of children at school, thus saving the Government money, is an allowable deduction. 
I noticed another very worthwhile provision that many people here have requested; that is a provision relating to a working wife who has to place a child in a day nursery, play centre, creche or kindergarten, or who has to employ somebody to come into the home to look after the child. In New Zealand up to $240 per annum may be claimed in respect of payments for such purposes. At .this time when so many married women are working and are being persuaded to work - and in many cases are compelled to work - a provision such as this would be of great assistance. I cannot help thinking, of course, that it would be infinitely better if they could place their children in a free kindergarten or creche as many people in this capital city, Canberra, are able to do. 
A similar provision also exists in New Zealand for a wife who is disabled or who is an invalid. She may place children in a creche or have somebody in the home to look after them and payments made in this way are offset by some taxation deduction. I support the view expressed by other honourable members who have spoken of the great need here for a general review of our taxation principles and procedures. It cannot be done in a piecemeal way. It has to be an across-the-board review. It should not only take into account, in the way that all previous investigations have been circumscribed, the federal sphere, but also it should take into account the taxation procedures of the State and of local government authorities. 
I am sure that such a comprehensive review would be of great advantage. We might well come up with the view that we have far too many forms of taxation and similar charges in our community, and efficiency and equity would both be respected a great deal more if there was a vast reduction in the number of taxes. We might look at the .redistributive effects of taxation measures. I could not help noticing an article bz John Helliwell, a lecturer at the University of British Columbia who addressed the 43rd conference of the Australia/New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science in May of this year. He said among other things: 
Because the rich are more able than the poor to arrange for their Income to appear in nontaxable forms most of the present implicit redistribution is from the poor to the rich. 
This is quite contrary to what any society might well expect. I cannot elaborate on these points in this short time. In a general review we might well look at the question whether taxes should be levied on the individual or on the family unit. We might look at such things as taxes imposed on socalled luxuries, such as beer, cigarettes and tobacco, and inquire whether we are penalising luxuries or whether in fact people who consume such things continue to do so, within certain limits, irrespective of the sales tax or excise tax placed on them. We might well look into these matters to see whether what we are doing is diverting consumption from necessities instead of penalising the consumption of luxuries. 
We might also look at the matter of local government taxes placed on properties when it is implicitly, if not explicitly, assumed that the person taxed owns the property and, therefore, has to pay tax on the full value of the property, although in very many cases the person may have only a small equity in the property. Of course, it is .well past time that there was a reform of the whole income tax scale. There has been no restructuring of it since 1954 and as a consequence some groups have found their effective rates of taxation rising at a relatively faster rate than have the rates for others in the income scale. The progressiveness of the taxation scale ensures this and a restructuring is vitally necessary. We might look also at the whole matter of disincentives that are inherent in the taxation scale. At a certain point people feel it is no longer worth earning extra income because of the penalties they will incur in a higher rate of taxation. It is clear that today's middle income earners - it was true last year and it is still true - are being taxed on their income at the same rate as the highest income earners were when the original tax schedule was introduced in 1954. 
We might well look at the basic income level at which taxation starts to be paid. Anyone earning $417 per annum today is liable for taxation. We should question whether it might well be worth our while and more economical to exempt such persons from taxation. It might be more economical to disregard many of the people we are presently taxing. I looked at the Commonwealth income tax statistics for the year 1967-68, the latest available, which showed that if we lifted the exemption level from $417 to $999 the number of taxpayers exempted would be 9.78 per cent of the total number of taxpayers. Some might say that to exempt 10 per cent of income earners from income tax might be just too much, but let us look at what net tax this 10 per cent of taxpayers pay. They pay just over half of 1 per tent of all tax that is levied in the community; that is, 9.78 per cent pay only .59 per cent of all tax. In that year they paid $ 11.6m in taxation. 
We might well be justified in lifting the exemption level to $999. Even if we went to $1,599 - I am looking at the statistics for 1967-68 - this figure would still cover only 23.55 per cent of taxpayers. This 23.55 per cent paid only 3.33 per cent of all tax. I think we could well have a look at lifting the level of exemption from taxation. 
Another matter of great concern in the community at the moment is that of fares as a deduction from taxation. This has become particularly relevant with the very high increases in public transport charges in recent times; it also affects the private motorist. The people most affected by these fares are low income earners. Not only have they to pay these high transport charges but also the charges are usually higher than for other taxpayers because most of these people have to live in the outer suburban areas of our great metropolitan cities. Therefore, they are paying more in fares than is any other section of the community. The lower the income level the greater the chance that the person concerned lives in ah outer suburban area and has to pay so much more in fares. 
We have to remember also that the system is most inequitable because very many people on high incomes are able to get cars provided for them and do not have to pay fares. There is also the self-employed person who can claim his vehicle as a business expense for taxation purposes. So in fact the people who have been hit hardest by the disallowance of fares as a taxation deduction are the people who most need help in our community and in many cases they are young people setting up a home of their own and often being forced to live in some outlying area in our metropolitan centres. 
In March 1969 a nationwide survey of educational needs was established at the behest mainly of the State Ministers for Education forming the Australian Educational Council. However, the Commonwealth gave its blessing to this project and promised to co-operate with it. Moreover, it was also promised that the private schools and their needs would be surveyed. This lifted the hopes of people in State education and in private education. But what has come to pass? The nationwide survey was killed by the Commonwealth's failure to provide leadership. It could have ensured that an overall national viewpoint was reflected in the inquiry but it deliberately chose not to do so. It now eagerly pounces on the report's inadequacies and inconsistencies, both real and imagined, as an excuse for further evasion. The acknowledged misunderstanding about who was to inquire into what and on what basis is both pathetic and absolutely scandalous. 
The matter of private schools comes to my mind. The Commonwealth thought that the States were doing the survey. The states did not do it. Ultimately the Commonwealth had to go out and conduct some kind of survey itself in the private schools. It is the young generation particularly and the nation generally who must pay the price of this downright incompetence bred out of the Commonwealth's determined reluctance to become properly involved in the inquiry. Notwithstanding these virtually admitted evasions by the Commonwealth, it still claims that the States have been put in such an improved financial position that they should be able to meet most of the needs outlined by the survey for both the public and private sectors of education. Time will not allow me to mention anything more than some of the most obvious fallacies in this claim. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  says that the average State education budget now shows an annual increase of 17 per cent. 
This year; very well. He compares this with the 10 per cent assumed annual growth in State education expenditures which was the basis of the survey's calculation of needs. The survey concluded that over the 5 years 1971-75 $ 1,443m extra would be needed urgently from the Commonwealth by the States for their government primary and secondary schools and teachers colleges alone. Docs the Minister really mean to say or imply that this extra 7 per cent above the assessed 10 per cent now being spent by the States is anything like equivalent to the $ 1,443m which the survey says will be needed over the next 5 years? Nowhere are we given any statistics or provided with any calculations even to suggest such a possibility. All the indications are that the increased finances available to the States will go nowhere near meeting the needs outlined in the survey. 
This conclusion applies particularly, in my view, to the capital or building needs - the school buildings to be constructed, the land to be purchased and the playgrounds to be formed - mentioned in the survey. The survey indicated that an additional S722m would be required from the Commonwealth over the period for the capital needs, as distinct from recurrent needs or running costs, of the State public schools and teachers colleges. According to research I have had done with the aid of the Parliamentary Library this would require an estimated growth in capital funds of almost 28 per cent annually. But the increase in Commonwealth capital grants to the States in 1971-72 amounted not to 28 per cent but to a meagre 4.5 per cent. 
It is no wonder that it was reported that the State and Federal governments' spending on buildings for education in New South Wales dropped - not increased - by about 15 per cent in the 6 months to the end of May this year. The situation becomes even more desperate when it is realised that out of their so-called greatly improved finances the States are supposed not only to meet the total of Si, 443m needed for the capital and recurrent costs of government schools but also another $267m which the survey says will be needed by the non-government schools for similar costs. Quite frankly many of these non-government schools, especially the Catholic parish ones, are in as bad a position as the worst of the government schools. None of these education authorities would imagine for one second that the position of the schools would be substantially or dramatically improved by the per capita increases that have been provided by the recent State budgets. Apparently they can expect nothing further from the Commonwealth Government. 
Let it be stressed that the survey dealt only with primary, secondary and teacher education. It had nothing to do with preschool education, the education of the handicapped or with the vast field of technical education at the pre-tertiary lc /el. Somehow the States' alleged 'greatly improved' financial position has also to try to meet all these educational needs along with their heavy commitments to universities and the quickly growing sector of colleges of advanced education. I am sure that not even the Minister for Education and Science or the Government sincerely and honestly believes that the States are now in a satisfactory financial position to meet this kind of challenge for the 5 years ahead. The Commonwealth, I believe, is trying to carry out a massive deceit on the Australian community. It has dumped its responsibilities as far as the nation wide survey is concerned. It ought at least to be decent and frank enough to say so. It did so at least in the case of the kindergartencumchild minding centres. 1 believe the Minister is desperately clutching at straws when he refers to the case of the unspent $8. 5m Commonwealth grant that was available to the States for the capital costs of building new teachers colleges in 1970-71, the first year of the triennium. This pointed reference was meant to suggest that the States were physically unable to use all of the money that the Commonwealth was already providing. Why should they be clamouring for more? From my own personal experience I know that the main reason for this situation was that the States bad insufficient notice of the grants to be able to carry out the detailed planning for the construction of the colleges within any short time after the grants were announced. Unfortunately there had not been any recent research into the forms modern teachers colleges should take. 
Moreover, the Commonwealth grants were limited to capital or building needs. Contrary to the advice of the Martin Committee in 1965 the Commonwealth made no provision for the very substantial running costs of teachers colleges. This I believe put another brake on State activities in this important field. In this, as in so many other areas, and not forgetting the nationwide survey which we are currently discussing, I believe the Commonwealth has had pathetically poor relations and understanding with the States. May I make the positive suggestion that whilever the system of specific Commonwealth grants to the States for educational purposes endures, it be on a 5-year basis rather than 3 as at present. This I believe would make for better planning and continuity of development. 1 am becoming increasingly more convinced of the need for clearer and more definite political responsibility for education. No doubt this could be true for many other spheres of our community life. For education I think there is a good case for clearly dividing responsibility so that the States retain pre-school, primary and secondary education and the Commonwealth accepts responsibility for all post-secondary and tertiary education. This would, of course, have to be a matter for agreement between the Commonwealth and States. Technical education, so closely allied to the economy and to employment policies, seems admirably suited to Commonwealth responsibility. Now that teachers colleges are being absorbed into colleges of advanced education and universities and, thankfully, becoming less tied to education departments, they also would readily fit into a national pattern of tertiary education. These bodies - teachers colleges, colleges of advanced education and universities - have or are receiving a substantial amount of autonomy. As such there can and ought to be a healthy diversity in their development. At the same time they could help form an integrated and interrelated national pattern. 
Apart from these considerations the overriding thought in my mind is that such a solution would help to rid us of the present indecisive control in which there are no clear lines of financial responsibility. Without the burdens of having to meet the Commonwealth's conditional grants for tertiary institutions the States could accept full and definite responsibility for the very important pre-school, primary and secondary schooling. Whilst 1 regret what has happened in regard to the survey on educational needs I would stress that the Commonwealth should not opt out but it ought to accept the proposal of the Australian Labor Party to set up an Australian schools commission which would not only carry out a thorough investigation into all these levels of education but would do so on a continuing basis. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I  present the  following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
 Your petitioners most humbly pray that the 
House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the current range of medical insurance contribution rates charged in each State. 
Are the rates charged in New South Wales much higher than in other States; if so, why. 
Has the Commonwealth made any investigation as to whether these higher charges are justified. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Minister's predecessor, in a statement to Parliament on 4th March 1971 indicate that examination was being made of arrangements for the provision of ancillary benefits under the National Health Scheme, including paramedical services. 
If so, what form has this examination taken. 
What professional organisations providing paramedical services have been consulted. 
When is it expected that the examination will be concluded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the number of approved (a) public and (b) private nursing homes in each State in each of the last 8 years. 
How many beds were provided in each case. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is his Department preparing a bulletin to be entitled Scholarships and Cadetships in Australia for Australian Students (Hansard, 7th September 1971, page 873). 
Will his Department prepare a bulletin to be entitled Scholarships and Cadetships in Australia for Overseas Students (Hansard, 20th August 1971, page 494). 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectively sheweth: 
that death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history, 
that, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government grant income tax deductions for donations over $2 made towards the relief of overseas disaster areas. 
That this be effected with haste to ensure the maximum possible aid to those at present in refugee camps and those in danger of famine in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health upon notice: 
What matching grants have been made to each of the States under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969. 
What funds were available to each State. 
What accommodation has been provided in each State. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Are representations being made to the United States Government to permit entry of Australian wool as an agricultural product; if so with what result. 
Would this application, if successful, provide relief from the present 10 per cent import surcharge. 
We are to spend $l,255m on defence this year. Apart from questions of whether the amount is enough or too much, there is the very important question of whether we shall get good defence value from the money. One of the very important costs in defence expenditure, of course, are those associated with the training and employment of personnel themselves. I understand that it takes about 62 per cent of the defence budget just to maintain the machinery as it is without the purchase of any new equipment. I want to raise questions tonight of the defence training methods, some aspects of defence administration and, if time permits, the issue of conscription. 
The former Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Henry  Bland, raised some very important questions in a talk in Perth in September 1970 during the 21st Roy Milne Memorial Lecture when he called for a review of military training. He reminded us that a very large proportion of our defence forces is devoted to the training of others and large numbers are always undergoing training. A general is reported to have said recently that in his whole career one-fifth of his Service life had been devoted to training. On the matter of the training of people in the higher ranks of our defence forces, apparently Australia still looks to other countries, chiefly the United Kingdom, in regard to its most senior training. This is seriously questionable.  Sir Henry  Bland is one of those who would know about this aspect. He says that we should call this practice into question. He has questioned how relevant it is to our particular needs to have the higher echelons of our defence personnel being trained overseas. He suggests - and it might be well for this Committee to take notice - that: 
We ought not delay too long doing this for ourselves. 
Very much more importantly,  Sir Henry  went on to question how extraordinary it is that with all the training that is done in our defence forces there has been no real examination of training methods for quite a number of years. Possibly the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is at the table, might answer this when he gets up to speak in this debate. He might be able to tell us what review there has been of training methods in the defence forces of Australia. 

 Sir Henry says that despite the plethora of reviews of training in many other fields such as universities, technical colleges, schools and industry itself, little has been done in the defence forces. He suggests that we ought to be looking at the character of the training, its value, what methods are used, whether they are up to date, what resources are devoted to training; what continuity is provided in the way of instruction, what the content is of the courses, and whether it is relevant to those defence needs. These are very important questions that ought to be asked in a defence estimates debate. Therefore, I ask the Minister - and I hope that he will answer - to inform me what has been done to answer this query raised by the former Secretary of Defence in regard to a review or re-examination of training methods in the defence forces. 

 Sir Henry went on to say there are other factors of concern such as those associated with recruitment policies. Here he raised the question of 3-year Army engagements. He asked how feasible these are; whether they could be of distinct value to the Services: and what the defence departments are doing in respect of recruitment of graduates from outside as officers in the Services. He questioned also the use the defence forces are making of normal civilian establishments such as universities, technical colleges and colleges of advanced education. He asked: Are the defence forces making adequate use of those facilities for their professional and subprofessional training? He also went on to question - and so do I - some aspects of personnel management philosophies of the Services. 
According to  Sir Henry  it is said that the present or prevailing philosophy is to give an officer training and experience over as wide a field as possible. He suggests that one of the immediate consequences of this is a succession of postings. In order to give an officer this wide experience a rotation of postings is provided for him and this is criticised very much overseas as being excessively costly, very wasteful and contributing to inefficient management. This is the criticism that has been made in respect of trying to give an officer all round experience. In addition, the constant rotation of officers' duties involves frequent new postings and transfers with all of the consequent disruption of family life, the schooling of children and so on. It has been pointed out in other reports that this system often leads to an abnormally high number of resignations and failure on the part of many defence personnel to reengage after their term has expired. 
This all points to the need for modern, up to date management concepts in the administration of our Services. Interestingly enough, the former Defence Secretary also referred to the 'quasi monastic life' led by military men separated in their training and everyday living apart from the ordinary flow of community life. These men are living in military establishments divorced from contact with community life.  Sir Henry  wondered whether this is such a good thing. He asked whether it would not be better for people who are concerned with defence to be more associated with the ordinary run of community life. He thought that this in the long run would make for a better serviceman and would be more beneficial for his all round development. 

 Sir Henry also questioned , and this has been questioned in this House plenty of times , the business of Army procurement - the obtaining of military hardware, if I can put it that way. He said that the problems arise from our insistence on compatibility of weapons and equipment with those of the United States of America. This has been a cardinal principle. We have tried to integrate our defence hardware with that provided in the United States. He seriously questioned this and wondered whether in the long run this might not be a great disadvantage to Australia. He pointed out that invariably the equipment is complex and is integrated into an even wider complexity. As a result we find that we are committing ourselves to equipment which is more likely to be designed for theatres of war and operations in which we are unlikely to be engaged. We are committing ourselves to equipment which is inevitably horribly costly. 
Therefore the questions of training, research, procurement and management have all been raised by no less a person than an expert in the field - the former Secretary of the Department of Defence. I trust that the issues that he raised about a year ago are now being researched by the political heads of the defence forces. 
I turn ever so briefly in the few minutes I have left to the matter of conscription. I have indicated that manpower is a very important part of our defence budget. Indeed,  62  per cent of our defence grant goes simply in maintaining the defence structure. What do other countries do in respect of voluntary forces as against conscripted forces? Great Britain and Canada, just to name two, have relatively successfully used an all-volunteer system. We know now that the United States aims to do likewise. That country agrees that one of the reasons why it has not been able to get the volunteers is that it has asked for standards that are too high. In our own country  70  per cent of those who apply to join the regular forces are rejected. Are we asking for too high standards? Are many of our young men who go into the defence forces being essentially undertrained and underemployed? I have some evidence of this especially in the case of the Navy, of young fellows who went in with high ambitions of service and found themselves employed in routine types of tasks. As a result they have become absolutely discontented and are  doing  everything they can to get out of the Navy. We can ask of ourselves whether we are demanding such high standards that lead to this  70  per cent rate of rejection. 
I think that conscription has been identified as a form of tax in kind. This is one of the few such taxes that still exist where people are expected to pay a tax by service on the cheap. It is inequitable because only some have to do it. Somebody has estimated that national service, this service on the cheap, is equivalent to an average income tax rate over and above what everybody else has to pay of  48  per cent. It is about time, it is suggested, that we had a cost benefit analysis to show the value of mixed forces, that is, volunteers and conscripts, such as we have now as against an all volunteer force. Some attempts have been made to do this. Roy Forward of the University of Queensland has pointed out that  4  times as much time is spent on conscripts entering and leaving the Army,  4  times as many conscripts need training and  4  times as many Regular Army men are needed to train them. I cannot continue in the time left to me to point out that whether conscript forces are in fact the cheapest in the long run is seriously questioned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable- the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That a migrant who has been a member ot the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, ' France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlements of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs will know that petitions are circulating in New Zealand calling on the government of New Zealand to act against Australian discrimination against New Zealand citizens of non-European and nonMaori racial origin and that yesterday notice was given in the New Zealand Parliament of a question critical of the Australian Government. I ask the Minister: What protests and representations has the Government received from the New Zealand Government regarding the continuing discrimination against New Zealand citizens of non-European and non-Maori racial origin in entry requirements by Australia? 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What sum has been (a) available and (b) granted for (i) home care services, (ii) senior citizens' centres and (iii) welfare officers at senior citizens' centres under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969 to each of the States in each of the last 2 years. 
What States have indicated preparedness to participate in each of these schemes. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that consistency was the overriding quality in the Government's foreign policy. You know, I think he could be right. The Government has been consistently wrong and consistently misinformed. In view of the fact that the honourable member quoted the remarks of a learned gentleman from the Australian National University, let me quote  Dr T.  B. Millar, Professorial Fellow in International Relations at the Australian National University. He had this to say: 
One sometimes wonders whether we have not become the most conformist society in the world, a nation of conservatives condemned to an eternity of conservative governments. Professor Manning Clark in a lecture in Perth recently said we have changed from being a nation of colonials to a nation of provincials; but provincials don't have foreign policies. 
What worries me most is the government's ultra-cautious and conservative approach and attitude in the field of foreign affairs. Let me briefly look at this attitude as it is exemplified in relation to the People's Republic of China and the issue of foreign aid. It seems to me that the Government's claim that China's willingness to trade with Australia is unaffected by its political considerations is away off beam. According to reports there was a meeting between officers of the Australian Trade Commission in Hong Kong and members of the Japanese Government Trading Corporation in mid-October, just a few weeks ago. Apparently it was clearly stated that unless Australia's political attitudes change, trade, unless it is considered by China to be an absolute necessity, is a dead letter. Let every member of the Australian Country Party take note of that. Australia must straighten out its attitude. It cannot play ducks and drakes with its foreign policy in a matter of electoral gain and at the same time hope to gain trade with China. 
I have heard the view that politics and trade do mix in China.  I  heard this view confirmed only this week on an Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast in  a  statement made by  Mr J.  C. Kibell.  I  understand  Mr Kibell  is an Australian businessman who has conducted private business with China. He said that whether we like it or not China does mix politics with trade. So much for the phoney efforts at dialogue supposed to be being conducted in deadly secret by the Government with the Chinese. As always, Australia is dragging its feet behind most other countries in establishing trade and diplomatic relations, and in this case with the largest nation on earth. For narrow political considerations the McMahon Government continues to live in a world of hopeless unreality. It is bad enough that we sacrifice, possibly for years to come, tremendous potential markets. Worse still, though, our ultra-conservative Government forgoes the chance to remove some of the suspicion and misunderstanding that has poisoned relations in South East Asia for more than 2 decades. With such opportunities on offer the best the Prime Minister could say in this Parliament on 23rd July this year was: 
For reasons 1 have mentioned there is no need to rush into recognition; there is no need to rush into making concessions. 
Even earlier, in July, speaking to a Libera] Party conference in Devonport the Prime Minister said: 
Now the question of recognition will arise in due course, but as I said, it may be a long way off and we don't intend to rush it. 
We do not rush. But even in October 1970, 55 nations had already established diplomatic relations with China. Let us note some of those that did recognise China. They include the United Kingdom, as long ago as 1950; Canada, India, Ceylon, Indonesia, Pakistan and France. Other important countries such as Italy have since extended recognition. Could the Prime Minister have had any thought for all these nations when he said to the Young Liberals rally in Melbourne on 12th July 1971: 
We must nol become pawns to the giant Communist power In our region. 
Does the Committee appreciate now what  I  mean when  I  talk of this ultraconservative, ultra-cautious Government that rules in Australia? Why should we really expect better from this Liberal-Country Party Government? After all it  ls  the direct lineal successor of the government which, quite gratuituously and against all world trends, decided  as  recently  as  1966 to recognise the Government of Taiwan  as  the government of all China. The simple fact for all Australians to realise is that we have an ultra-conservative and an ultracautious Government that prefers to live in the atmosphere of the cold war with all its tensions, suspicions, isolation, and tremendous waste of resources and opportunities forgone for peace and international understanding. Its constant political fodder is fear - fear of the yellow hordes or the Russian reds or whatever other non-white colour that comes into its lexicon. 
Can one imagine a McMahon conservative Government making the tremendous breakthrough in international relations made by the Prime Minister and Government of Canada in regard to China, or will one ever forget the stunned shock of the Australian Government when the announcement was made of President Nixon's proposed visit to Peking? Of course  we all recall  the Prime Minister's extravagant denunciation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Australian Labor Party delegation for their bold initiative in trying to make a breakthrough with China. 
I turn now to the matter of foreign aid. We talk so much about forward defence in this country. How that contrasts starkly with the small, miserable amount of aid that we are extending to the 9) million Pakistani refugees at this time. We are spending $5im and that only after a lot of public pressure. We are spending $54m altogether, whereas the poor country of India is spending over  %2im  a day. India spends in 2 days or less than 2 days what we spend altogether - and we are a country of affluence, with a high standard of living, and a country that can afford to budget for a $600m surplus in this year. Would the extension of aid do anything to inflate our economy? Of course it would not. If the Prime Minister wants to talk about pillars of peace let him plant a few pillars of peace among the Pakistanis, the refugees who live in such wretched poverty at this time. Likewise there has been our resistance to increase civil aid to South Vietnam. At a Press conference in Washington on the 2nd of this month the Prime Minister was asked: 
Is there any suggestion,  Mr Prime  Minister, that Australia may he called upon to put forward more aid to South Vietnam? 
The Prime Minister answered: 
There might be but I doubt whether it would be practicable. 
We can afford to spend $300m on military efforts in Vietnam, but when it comes to the matter of peaceful reconstruction we are not able to help, it is not practicable. The same goes for aid to Indonesia. Still we give a drop in the ocean - $57m over a. 3-year period. Our programme aid to Indonesia is tied. It is made payable in Australian dollars. I wish we would follow the example of a lot of other countries around the world and untie our aid. Untied aid gives a greater flexibility to the recipient country in expending it on the things that it most needs. We will not miss out. If all countries untie their aid we would get our fair share of the purchases in the long run. A strong suggestion has been made that much of our aid in training could be best carried out in the benefiting country. It would be more relevant to their local needs. I saw in northern Thailand the work of the Snowy Mountains workers. Not only did they provide aid but by their association with the people in their own habitat they did a marvellous job in propagating our way of life. 
Seeing that time is running out I want to make only one other suggestion. I would like to see the matter of foreign aid taken away from the Department of Foreign Affairs. This is not original thought; it has been put up by a number of eminent people in the past. As it stands, foreign atd is just one of those other things that I understand a hard working Department of Foreign Affairs has to carry out. We would do a lot better by setting up a statutory authority with an advisory council to spend our aid. I think that a good deal of research needs to be done into this matter. We need some continuity in the people who will be carrying out this task rather than its being the job of some members of the Department of Foreign Affairs for a matter of a short time and then passed over to somebody else. I believe Canada uses this kind of independent device, and it makes probably a more efficient job of using scarce resources than we apparently do in extending aid. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mr Ham-.left)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (1)How many persons in receipt of (a) sickness and (b) unemployment benefits during 1970-71 qualified for free health insurance premiums. 
What  whs  the average duration of the benefit. 
What was the cost to revenue of benefits provided in each category. 
As has been said, the purpose of this Bill is to provide additional recurrent grants to the States to help them meet exceptional increases in non-academic salaries at universities for the calendar years 1971 and 1972. This of course occurs within the triennial grant period running from 1970 to 1972. In characteristic fashion, this being a recurrent grant, the Commonwealth is providing $1 for every $1.85 provided by the States and from fees from university students. 1 would like to emphasise that. I think so far the references that have been made have been to the $1.85 provided by the States. I will speak about the implications of this fee contribution in a while. 
It is not mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  but I understand from a previous speech he made that the cost of this provision will be of the order of $5. 4m. As has also been mentioned, there is provision within this Bill for minor amendments to existing legislation so as to allow transfer of Commonwealth contributions from one project or purpose to another. The transfers have been requested by the States. They have also been recommended by the Australian Universities Commission. The transfers do not involve any extra money being provided by the Commonwealth. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  has moved on behalf of the 
Opposition an amendment to the effect that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted so as lo provide for the Commonwealth to take over responsibility for the financing of universities. I think it is well known by now that the Australian Labor Party, on taking over responsibility, also intends to provide for the abolition of all fees at universities. 1 understand that the estimated cost of such a provision would be about $16m. One of the implications of abolishing fees at universities would he to allow people to get to the university on merit and not simply on the basis of being able to afford to go there. Admittedly Commonwealth scholarships are provided to allow quite a number of people to get to university who might not otherwise be able to get there. But I think every honourable member is conscious of the fact that there are many very able students in our community who are not able to win one of the comparatively scarce Commonwealth scholarships and who are debarred from getting to the university because of the fees that are charged. 
Not only would we, as part of Labor Party policy, want to abolish fees at universities but we would want to ease the means test that applies to the receipt of a living allowance. As I will also mention later, the matter of fees is only one part - an important part - of the cost of sending a youngster to university. Certainly more costly is the upkeep of a youngster while he is attending such an institution. Of those who are already on scholarships at the present day only 11 per cent, because of the harshness of the' means test on the living allowance, get a full living allowance. The living allowance is not a particularly generous one. Of those who receive university scholarships, 54 per cent get no living allowance and 35 per cent get a part living allowance. 
If it were not possible immediately to abolish university fees the obvious alternative would be to increase the number of Commonwealth scholarships and to place a means test on them. If only a small number of scholarships can be made available let them go to those people for whom they are vital if they are to get to the university. Plenty of studies have indicated that many of the people who get Commonwealth scholarships are people who are already economically, socially and culturally privileged in our community and that those for whom a scholarship is vital are deprived of the opportunity of ge ting to university even though they have an inherent ability to master a university course if they could only get to university. 
About 40 per cent of students at universities in New South Wales - I speak for that State only - presently receive no assistance whatever. Having mentioned that $1.85 will be made available for every $1 provided by the Commonwealth, the $1.85 deriving from the S ates and student fees, I should comment on what is going on as far as fees are concerned al the present time. Fees at the University of Sydney - this is pretty typical throughout Australia at the moment - will be about $531 in 1972, and by 1.973 they are expected to be $611. 
Two-thirds of Commonwealth scholarships go to the children of Australia's lop 20 per cent of salary and wage earners and, as T have already indicated, this deprives many others who do not come from such affluent homes from getting to the university. 1 repeat that two-thirds of Commonwealth scholarships go to the children of Australia's top 20 per cent of salary and wage earners. Only 8 per cent of children of working class parents who leave school enter university although they make up 33 per cent of the school leavers. If honourable members want further information I would point out that fewer than 2 per cent of the sons and daughters of unskilled and semi-skilled workers now gel to universities. Research shows that in terms of inherent or innate ability a big percentage of them would be able to master a university course. Other kinds of discrimination should be removed and we think that the Labor Party policy would do much to remedy the situation. 
Instance that females are not proportionately represented at universities. In 1967, of the 17 to 22 year olds in the community, 7 per cent of males and 3.2 per cent of females enrolled at university. In 1971, 84,800 males but only 38,976 females enrolled at Australian universities. People living in rural and country areas are disadvantaged as compared with those who live in urban and metropolitan areas. They have less opportunity of obtaining a university education. What are some of the implications of all this? The increased financial requirements of universities are being met in an inequitable way. As I have said, $1.85 is being provided by the States and from fees as against SI from the Commonwealth. Fees are being forced up in such a way that many students who do not have scholarships but who would qualify for scarce places cannot afford lo take them. In 1972 the increase in fees will be of the order of 16-2/3 per cent and I understand there will be a further increase of 165 per cent in 1973. I remind the House that in 1970 university fees were increased by 20 per cent. Not long ago the Minister for Education and Science spoke about trying to extend equality of educational opportunities throughout the community. He should examine the situation that obtains in the universities. He should look at those who are getting to university, those who are being helped to get there and at those who will benefit most from the taxation concession that was introduced recently in the Federal Budget. Most of the help will go to those who have the most opportunities and the most support. 
According to a survey made by Australian university students an average family with an income of about $4,400 a year pays almost 46 per cent of that income to send one member of that family :o a university. Honourable members can appreciate the tremendous sacrifice that is required of such parents whose sons or daughters do not win scholarships. Tremendous obligations are imposed on them in trying to give their children tertiary education. Of course the situation is aggravated at present by the difficulty that many university students are experiencing in securing vacational employment to help raise funds to enable them to continue their university courses next year. This is one way by which students have been able to ease the burden of their sorely tried parents in trying to meet the financial costs of a university education. This aspect was reported in this evening's new, but 1 knew of it personally long ago. Because of the Governments present policy many students are finding it exceptionally difficult to find vacational employment. 
I have referred already to the contribution that is required of students to enable the States to provide the $1.85 for every $1 of Commonwealth grant. The States are being forced to divert scarce educational funds to universities at the expense of other levels of education. Is it any wonder that the States are not able to meet the requirements of the nation-wide survey of educational needs? The Commonwealth says that it has provided the States with the necessary funds but the States have a different story to tell. This is one aspect that I should like to discuss on another occasion. One might wonder how this arbitrary figure of $1.85 was arrived at in order to meet the Commonwealth's grant of $1. Historically I understand it was based on the proposition that a State government would provide $1 and the students, through fees, would provide 85c. This, of course, is no longer the position and as a result the States have to find more than $1 to meet the Commonwealth $1 grant. As the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  rightly said, the Commonwealth Government is able to get back a big proportion of the money that it expends through the income tax that is levied on the staffs of universities. lt has been brought to my notice very forcibly in the last week by some important people in a New South Wales university, which I will leave unnamed, that even as a result of this Bill the universities will get about only one-half to two-thirds of the amount that they requested to meet non-academic salary adjustments. I should like to hear the Minister comment on this point. The universities will not receive sufficient to meet non-academic salary adjustments that have been granted under awards. Only half or, at most, two-thirds of what they require will be provided by this legislation. What will happen is that universities will be unable to fill important positions on their staffs. I understand that there has been a protest by vice-chancellors to the Australian Universities Commission concerning the Commonwealth's failure to provide for die necessary increases granted by awards. These days, with inflation running riot as it is, it is impossible for the universities to predict accurately at the beginning of a triennial period what their financial requirements will be. 
Professor Rupert Myers, . the ViceChancellor of the University of New South Wales, stated recently that the grant to his university for the triennium 1970-72 already had proved to be $6m short of the amount that the university would need for that period. He said that a recent supplementary grant of $2.5m to the university had been of assistance but that the university still had serious financial problems. ,In the same vein the Vice-Chancellor of Sydney University. Professor Bruce Williams, was reported in the Sydney Morning Herald in October - a few weeks ago - as having told the Australian Universities Commission that shortage of finance had caused a fall of morale in the academic staff and that the university's 3-year programme was 'in ruins'. According to the report this university has been unable to improve the ratio of staff to students and there is a worsening of conditions. He said that research opportunities had been restricted and library facilities and other services were being hampered. 
In the report of the Australian ViceChancellors' Committee for the period 1967-70, it was suggested that the overall level of grants to universities for the triennium was inadequate. The Committee believed that they were geared to the capacity of the State governments to meet their shares and were influenced by the increasing grant for colleges of advanced education. In one part of the report the Vice-Chancellor's Committee complained: 
The Committee was r.ot satisfied with the extent of consultation required by the Act, which took place with the universities, and believes that the balanced development of the universities called for a greater degree of consultation and  a  lesser degree of 'instruction', sometimes inexplicable instruction, from the Commission. 
All I am saying is that the universities are not happy with what has been provided by the Universities Commission. They feel that their estimated requirements are being pruned down to the extent that the universities are not able to operate efficiently. 
State governments have complained about the Commonwealth Government requiring them to put up so much money. There are strong objections from many students currently at universities to their having to meet the increased fees that have been necessitated by the formula. Of course there should be loud howls of protest from the hundreds, and possibly even thousands of would-be university students who are not able to get to universities because of the operation of quotas on the one hand and by the high fees that are being demanded of them on the other hand. The Labor Party advocates strongly thatthe Commonwealth Government should take over the financial responsibility for the universities. This would relieve much of the burden on the States and it would enable the Commonwealth to make places available in universities on merit by the abolition of fees. It is for that reason we urged not only that fees should be abolished but also that greater generosity should be shown towards the amount of living allowance that is provided and also towards the means test which controls such living allowances. 
 I only regret that we are under some pressure here tonight to speak to a number of Bills - five in all - in such a short time. I recognise also that we  aTe  in fact trying to speak to the lengthy statement on education and science made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  only a couple of weeks ago. First of all, I want to address my remarks to the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill and I would like to move an amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time.' I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not refusing to give the Bill a second reading this House believes that the policy of matching grants should be examined to ascertain whether it permits of an adequate system of advanced education and sufficient funds should be made available to the States in the form of recurrent grants to permit the abolition of fees in Colleges of Advanced Education'. 
I do not want to trespass too much on the argument that I advanced when debating the previous Bill. Once again we are dealing with a Bill to provide for Commonwealth subsidies. In this case it is to make provision for increased academic salaries for the colleges of advanced education. Exceptional increases are taking place within the triennial period and they are said to flow mainly from the 1970 national wage case. 
The Bill also provides for some minor machinery adjustments to the recurrent grants schedule. These are due to reallocations within the province of the legislation. Once again, we are looking at the matter of the formula. I do not want to re-hash what I have already said about the $1 Commonwealth grant for every $1.85 from the States and from fees from Students.  I  wish to add just one point to what I said when discussing the previous Bill; that is, the Wark Committee in its first report in 1966 advocated that recurrent grants should be on the basis of $1 from the Commonwealth for every $1 provided by the States. 
The Commonwealth rejected that proposition at the time and this may be now rather a matter of regret as it is leading to heavy penalties not only on the States but also on the students. Just as there have been steep increases in university fees in recent times, and more are projected for the next 2 years, so have there been increases in the fees paid by students at colleges of advanced education. The increased fees are all the more important because so many students who go to colleges of advanced education are unable to obtain a relatively scarce Commonwealth advanced education scholarship. This means once again that there is gross inequality of opportunity in determining who will attend colleges of advanced education. That is why our amendment suggests that we seek to abolish fees at these institutions and allow people to proceed there on merit rather than on the financial capacity of their parents or friends. 
This move would be beneficial not only to the individual students but also to the community at large because it would make it possible for people to attend tertiary institutions who are able to render as a result the most service to the community. As I also indicated in the debate on the previous Bill, we need not only to abolish fees but also to increase living allowances and to make the means test applying to the living allowances much more lenient. I agree with the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  that we are still trying to clarify in our minds the function of colleges of advanced education. I suppose that they have quite a wide range of functions. The universities and the colleges of advanced education are still trying to work out their relationship to each other. The early distinction , that was made by  Sir Robert  Menzies and others does not seem to apply any longer. 
Colleges of advanced education are now in the business of handing out degrees in respect of a number of courses, but they also have courses leading to subprofessional awards. I agree with those people who think it is healthy to have diversity in colleges of advanced education. Looking in on some of them, including the college here in Canberra, there does seem to be quite a healthy diversity in the types of courses offering and the organisation of those courses. Most of the colleges I have observed have been of the multi-discipline kind and this seems generally to be a good tiling. I know that  Sir Ian  Wark thoroughly discourages the idea of monodiscipline for colleges of advanced education. 
At present many teachers colleges are aspiring to become colleges of advanced education, possibly not only on educational grounds but more on political and economic grounds. This is one way in which teacher's colleges could attract recurrent benefits from the Commonwealth. They do not get it under the teachers college grants which only apply as far as capital requirements are concerned. So there is an argument as to whether you can have a teachers college as being, solely on its own merit, a college of advanced education. Most people seem to discourage this idea. They reckon that there is a good deal to be gained from students, and staff for that matter, mixing with people of various disciplines. For what it is worth I am encouraged to endorse that point of view. I think that teachers or student teachers can be raised in a rather ratified atmosphere where they go out of school into a glorified teachers college atmosphere of something like a school and then go back into a school without having mixed much with the community at large. 
I rather incline to the view that we should have multi-discipline colleges of advanced education. I only hope, though, that people will recognise that students do not go to colleges of advanced education or any tertiary institution, for that matter, just for vocational reasons. I regret the trend of argument that has been put forward here recently that we might be overproducing graduates from those institutions. I think there is a lot to be said for people getting a general education, an advanced education. Many people only really begin to appreciate history, economics, political science and what have you when they become more mature. I often hear people say, 'Why do not you teach the youngsters in your schools all about politics and about how to vote so that we can cut down on the great number of informal votes at election times?'. My observation is that these studies at schools do not have the relevance that they, have when a youngster becomes 19, 20, 21 or older, when he becomes more inquiring and more critical and starts to look into the realms of philosophy, sociology, world government and all these sorts of things. 
I would like to see many people have the opportunity of going to a college of advanced education without necessarily having any vocational objective in mind. 1 would like to see colleges of advanced education cater for that sort of thing. I apologise in advance for quoting a few statistics, but what is the status of colleges of advanced education at the moment? In 1970  -  and I will give these statistics in round figures - 'there were 37,000 students in colleges of advanced education. At that time there were 51 colleges, 21 of them in Victoria. Victoria has been well ahead, in this type of development, of all other States. Of those 37,000 students 15,500  -  again in round figures - were undertaking full time courses and 20,000 were doing part time courses. Nearly 1,200 were doing courses by correspondence. Once again it is interesting to look at the sex make-up of the students. There were 30,500 males and 6,500 female students. I hope that there will be much more opportunity in the future for females to enter colleges of advanced education. I think that this is in the interests of society itself, for the sociological reasons I mentioned and the cultural reasons which I alluded to a while ago. Of the number of students in colleges of advanced education in 1970, 19,000 were in Victoria. By comparison New South Wales had only 4,266. The higgest enrolments for courses at colleges of advanced education are in this order: business studies, engineering and technology, building, surveying and architecture, art and design. Getting down fairly low in priority is paramedical studies. In more recent times education has come into the picture. It is interesting to note that fairly low on the priority scale at the present time is liberal studies. As I have already said I hope that this is something that will build up over the years ahead. 
When I first wrote down my few comments in regard to this matter I was advocating a national authority to help plan the distribution of tertiary institutions or colleges of advanced education. We are dealing with 2 other Bills in company with the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill. One of them provides for an Australian Commission on Advanced Education and the other provides for a second full time member of the Australian Universities Commission. 1 thought that in the second reading speech of the Minister a rather pious hope was expressed that these 2 commissions would consult and bring about some rational development of universities and colleges of advanced education. I do not think it is unfair to say that there has been a good deal of tension in the relationship between the universities and the colleges of advanced education. I feel that the universities have some suspicion that they will be outdone by the colleges of advanced education and that the development of the colleges will take place somewhat at the expense of the universities. I hope that this suspicion can be sorted out and that they can work together. 
I was rather hoping that we would follow the recommendation in the Martin Committee report and the example of the New South Wales Government in providing for a third body on which the colleges of advanced education and the universities were represented. The Martin Committee envisaged an Australian tertiary education commission or something of that kind. This has not come about. Instead we have these 2 bodies. I welcome the extension of the full time membership of the Australian Universities Commission. It is obvious that the one full time comissioner, who is the  chairman,  has been overworked and that there has not been as happy a consultation between the universities and the Commission as there ought to be. I am hoping that the addition of a second full time member to the Commission will assist in this regard. 
It was stated in the Minister's second reading speech that the Australian Commission on Advanced Education, the new body, was to be established on parallel lines to the Australian Universities Commission. Somebody writing to one of the Melbourne newspapers the other day noted this difference between the 2 bodies: The Australian Commission on Advanced Edu cation will have under it charge 48 colleges. It is to have only one full-time member. On the other hand, the Australian Universities Commission, which is looking after 18 universities, will have 2 full time members. I think this pretty uneven development. I would like to hear from the Minister, when he is replying a little later, why it is that there is only one full time member on the Australian Commission on Advanced Education but 2 full time members serving on the Australian Universities Commission. I would have thought that with not only the speedy development that has occurred in colleges of advanced education but also the projected development ahead of them it would have been a fair idea to have at least 2 full time members on the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. I do not know what guided the Government in making provision for only one full time member. 
I finalise my remarks by referring once again to the difficulty many people experience in entering these colleges of advanced education. One of the points that concern me is that the scarce number of scholarships available have not all been taken up. In 1970, of the 2,500 scholarship available only 2,109 were taken up. Yet, there were 40,745 applicants for this scarce number of scholarships. Admittedly, a number of these applicants also apply for other scholarships. But that does not altogether explain to me why these scholarships are not all taken up. I know that they are made available as later year awards, but that does not explain to me why they are not taken up as open entrance awards. In 1972 there will be 4,000 scholarships instead of the 2,500 scholarships which is presently the case. But in the last year for which I have figures only 10.2 per cent of those who had gained entrance to colleges of advanced education were, in fact, receiving scholarships. So, I am hoping that there will be a much more generous provision for people to enter these colleges. This of course would happen if the Government accepted the amendment which I have moved to provide for increased funds that would allow the States to make provision for the abolition of fees in colleges of advanced education. I might have made other remarks if more time had been available but I will leave it at that. I will be very anxious to hear the Minister explain why there was this restriction to just one full time member of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. We are now in a situation where there are 48 colleges and the number is likely to increase very quickly in the future. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What sum has been (a) available, (b) approved and (c) granted under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 in respect of each State in 1970 and 1971. 
What is the location of each project, and how many self-contained dwellings does each contain. 

 - Mr Speaker, I second the amendment. This Bill provides $30m over the next 3 years from 1972 to 1974 for the construction, equipping and stocking of libraries in secondary schools. It respresents an increase of $3m on the previous triennium and I suppose that will partly make up for the increased costs that will occur during the coming 3 years. One of the interesting provisions mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is the objective of the Government in this measure. The Minister stated that the objective is:   . . to lift the quality of libraries in secondary schools, government and non-government, to acceptable standards. 
This is a departure in principle for the Government. Up until now, the Government has been prepared to deride the Australian Labor Party when it says that it would not make finance available irrespective of needs in a community. What members of the Opposition say, and what we have said on many occasions, is that we will provide assistance to both government and non-government schools according to need. Up until now, the Government has not been prepared to accept this principle, but I see that in this Bill it does aim to provide libraries to acceptable standards in secondary schools. For the life of me, I cannot understand why the Government did not write this principle into the legislation providing for science blocks when it came before this House earlier in the year. In that Bill the Government provided grants for all non-government schools, including some of the most affluent schools in this country, at the rate of twice as much per head as it provided for those in government schools. I cannot understand why it has not been consistent in the application of its principle but, be that as it may, apparently the Government does accept in this Bill the principle that has been behind the Labor Party's proposals for education, namely, giving aid in accordance with need. 
The libraries scheme, which has been in operation since about 1966, has been responsible for some quite considerable improvements in our secondary school library resources. I am glad to note that in my own electorate, as in many other electorates, some impressive secondary school libraries have been erected. These days they are not referred to just as libraries; often, they are referred to as resource centres, since besides providing for books, they also provide for a number teaching aids, such as tape recorders, overhead projectors, various kinds of filming devices and so forth - all part and parcel of a modern educational machine. The only thing that disturbs me is that although benefits have been provided by these quite impressive buildings and by the books and equipment that are located in those buildings, not enough trained librarians and teachers are available to make the fullest and most effective use of them. Secondary schools are in just as much trouble with library teachers as thev are with a shortage of teachers generally. 
One of the great regrets of many people in educational circles to whom I have talked abeu this type of legislation is that it does not apply to primary schools. Primary schools are beginning to feel that they are the poor relation in respect of any provision that the Commonwealth makes for education. As far as I know, the Commonwealth makes no direct provision for any aspect of primary education and I have found that this has given rise to quite a strong resentment in those circles. I know that there is considerable resentment felt by organisations of principals, by teachers and by parents who are connected with primary schools. These days most primary schools do not have a good library. The only schools which have effective libraries are those that are located in affluent areas where parents are able to provide for them. The interesting part about this is that the State governments give subsidies in accordance- with what the local parents and citizens associations or other parent organisations can provide, so those who have the most in resources attract the most by way of subsidy. This is directly opposed to the principle which the Labor Party espouses in this regard. Of course, as one would recognise, this leads to considerable inequality of educational opportunity. I make a plea to the Government to give consideration to the extension of this kind of aid to primary schools. After all, it is particularly in the fourth, fifth and sixth classes of primary school that youngsters develop their first habits in the use of libraries and in the technique of research - in the whole business of finding out where information is located and in being able to analyse the kind of material that is available in libraries. One must recognise that, these days, it is impossible for schools to be able to give children all the information, let alone skills that they will need in their later years. 
The knowledge explosion is so great that it is impossible for any level of education today to be able to keep up with this development. So, the important thing is that people be taught to gather information for themselves, to be able to make use of books and to be able to make use of libraries and other such devices in order to study for themselves. The study habit is so important in modern education. Any teacher of any worth at all would say that this skill - this attitude - is best cultivated in the middle years of primary school and continued from that point. I make a strong plea to the Government to give consideration to extending library grants to primary schools as well as to secondary schools. I also make a plea that library grants be made to teachers colleges. These days most teachers colleges are very deficient in library facilities. This seems a most unfortunate thing because we are training people who will go into schools and teach library techniques to children. I refer to an article in the 'Australian' of 28th September this year. Referring to testimony given to the recent Senate inquiry on teacher education by the Director of Teacher Education in Western Australia,  Mr N.  G. Traylen, it states: 
I don't know of more than about three teachers' colleges in Australia which have adequate libraries,' he said. 
The older teachers' colleges in Melbourne and Adelaide are woefully equipped by modern standards. 
Clarement and Graylands colleges in Western Australia are deficient in such everyday items as overhead projection, video-type recorders, cameras, television monitors, duplicating equipment and the like.' 
So we can see that there is a very fundamental need in our community to provide adequate library facilities not only in secondary schools but also at the other levels to which I have referred. 
Having said that, I strongly want to support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  which seeks the setting up of an Australian schools commission which will look into the whole realm of primary and secondary schools to see just what their needs are. The problem about giving grants, such as library grants or science block grants, is that they tend to be fragmentary; they are given in a piecemeal manner and in many cases they ignore the other needs in the school system. They tend to distort the whole provision for education. They give emphasis to some aspects at the expense of others. We want to see established some kind of inquiry which will advise both the Commonwealth and State governments on the overall needs of primary, secondary, and I would go on to add technical education, and also the education of the handicapped. The present provisions, though helpful, are, as I have said, fragmentary and often distort the overall educational programme. 
As I have already mentioned, in many schools we have excellent libraries, but right next to them are situated dingy class rooms, and there is a marked inadequacy of teachers, counsellors and clerical and laboratory . assistants. So we still have a gross over-reliance on private provision for education. I think that the most sorry spectacle of this is in respect of the education of handicapped children in Australia, and I will say a little more about that matter shortly. There is inadequate research into Ihe aims, the courses, the curricula and the syllabuses of study. Next year it was hoped to introduce a new curriculum Into New South Wales high schools, . but due to insufficient teachers this programme will not be carried out. So we need a national schools commission which will not only be concerned with providing for the external things in education, such as school buildings, adequate playgrounds, various kinds of assistance in the way of staff, all sorts of library equipment and so on, but also look at the internal things in education - the content of education, what we should be teaching in this modern age and how' we should be teaching it Maybe we should introduce team teaching, to which the honourable member for Fremantle alluded. That question could be considered. A. national schools commission could also look at the question of what we should be doing to assess what students do. 
At the present time- there is a good deal of critical examination of the whole matter of external examinations in our schools. There is also the question of how our schools should be organised. Should they be separate according to sex or should there be more co-education, and when should co-education be introduced? All of these important questions could be considered by a national schools commission which would be an important, high-powered research centre. Why should every State duplicate these functions when in fact they could be carried out by a high-powered national' research organisation which would make its findings available to both State and private education authorities? Every visitor who comes to Australia remarks on the dearth of research into the content and structure of our education programme. 
As I have said, it is of special concern among primary school staff, and parents of primary school children as well, that Commonwealth specific grants have not come their way and that they are regarded as the poor relations. 
As 1 have said, principals have complained bitterly that primary schools have nothing in the way of the clerical assistance that is presently available in secondary schools. Often principals of important primary schools have to carry out both administrative and teaching functions in their schools. 1 am sure there are many parents listening to this broadcast at the moment who have had the experience of going to see the principal of a school to consult him about their child only to find that the principal is in class and they have had to wait until the principal has come out of the class or else he has had to leave the class to come and talk with the parents about the problem concerning their child. This is not good enough. Principals should have more assistance. More teachers should bc available. In most cases a principal's time is more than taken up with the administration of the school. 
I have alluded to the dearth of good libraries in primary schools, and I have referred to the restriction on the amount of teaching aids available to primary schools. These days most primary schools do not have specialist teachers in music, arts, needlework and so on. Most primary teachers are required to teach the whole curriculum. This is not a proper thing, in my view, and it is not a proper thing in the view of practising teachers. They are looking for the introduction of specialist teachers into primary schools. Those are all matters which a national education commission, in co-operation with State. education authorities and the private sector of education, should be considering. It could make recommendations to the Commonwealth Government in regard to the granting of financial assistance to state schools and to non-state schools. It is just not good enough to pick out one aspect of education and try to do something about it. If the Government does that it will get the kind of distortion I have mentioned - beautiful libraries on the one hand and a dearth of librarians on the other hand; dingy class rooms; and inadequate laboratory assistance. This position' arises when the Government deals with the problem only in a piecemeal, fragmentary way, as it has been doing. 
We have problems in primary schools and, despite the national survey of educational needs, we are still left with great problems in secondary schools in New South Wales, and 1 speak particularly of New South Wales because 1 live in that State and have most acquaintance with it. Next year New South Wales secondary schools are confronted with the elimination of compulsory sport. This should disturb the national Government which is concerned with the health and welfare of its community, and also with its labour force. One has only to look at the number of youngsters called up for national service who have been ruled unfit to undertake national service, lt ought to cause this Government grave concern that compulsory sport, to which we have paid so much homage in the past, is to be eliminated from secondary schools in New South Wales next year. There is to be a cut-down of the options of students in the selection of curricula. There is to be a further cutdown on the levels at which students can study subjects. All these great problems are coming our way because of the lack of a proper nationwide survey and proper Commonwealth provision in respect of these matters. 
There is also the delayed implementation of the new syllabus to which 1 referred previously. New South Wales secondary schools will be short of 1,200 teachers in 1972. This would not have occurred if there had been the nationwide inquiry for which we asked some years ago. There is the matter of the resignation of teachers. About 12 per cent of all teachers are leaving the New Sou'.h Wales teaching service, and I understand that the position is similar in the other States. Of the 2,491 university students who took up teachers college secondary school scholarships in 1968, it is expected that because of grave wastage only 800 will go into the teaching ser-' vice next year. Then there is another problem in the private sector. School fees have had to be increased substantially, which will place a heavy burden on parents of many children in private schools, particularly in the parish Catholic schools. Only last weekend the Archdiocese of Sydney had to announce that school fees will be increased by 22 per cent next year because ' of the dependence on lay teachers in Catholic schools. So we have all this evidence of need in the community which is not touched on properly because the Government gives only fragmentary attention to these matters, in the kind of programme before us at the present time. The matter of research has claimed my attention particularly. I am very disturbed indeed to notice what the New South Wales Institute for Educational Research had to say about the Commonwealth's lack of support for educational research and I would like the Minister to note it. This is research carried out by the Australian Council for Educational Research, a body which is well known to all teachers and many parents for the tremendous amount of good it has done for education. I will quote from the report of the annual meeting of the Council. It said: 
During the year the executive had prepared  a  submission for an increase of 40 per cent in the Slate and Commonwealth contributions to the work of ACER. The Governments of the six Stales agreed but the Commonwealth Government did not. Under the terms of the intergovernmental agreement this means that ACER received none of the additional $40,000 it sought for this financial year. 
In other words, the Commonwealth vetoed what all  6  States were prepared to do and as a result this important educational research body, the Australian Council for Educational Research, will not be able to carry out anything like the amount of research that is so sorely needed in Australia. I would have liked to have had the time to talk about what the Commonwealth and the States do not do for the education of our handicapped children. Is it not a standing disgrace that parents should have to be running raffles and hoop-las and other such activities in order to educate children who happen to be mentally or physically handicapped, and in some cases both? Only 24 per cent of the cost of running schools for the handicapped in Australia is provided by governments; the rest of the financing has to be done by parents and their friends. 
The high cost of teachers' salaries is one of the burdens that confront parents in these schools. State governments subsidise approved teacher salaries but many teachers in these schools for the handicapped receive absolutely no subsidy. There is no provision for subsidies for teachers who are training the mentally handicapped who are 16 years of age. and over. Today we are making grants to universities and colleges of advanced education and doing everything possible for them but we cut assistance to the handicapped at the chronological age of 16 years, despite the fact that they might only have a mental age of 10 or 11 years. Nothing is given to help these particularly handicapped children who need a higher proportion of teachers to students. State governments only subsidise the cost of providing one teacher for every 10 handicapped children but some of these children are so handicapped that one teacher could not handle 10 of them or give them adequate instruction. There is no subsidy given in respect of pre-school children in this category and there is very little given towards the transport costs of handicapped children. It is obvious that while this Bill does make help available for libraries in secondary schools, what is really needed is a nation-wide survey to provide for the overall needs of all our schools. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That there is widespread oppositionto the National Service Act arising from the denial of basic human rights and liberties. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that:  1,  The National Service Act be repealed. 
Amnesty be granted to all those charged, or liable to be charged, under the Act. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have any concessions at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) International Air Terminal been terminated since the beginning of 1970. 
If so, (a) what were the concessions, (b) what was the reason in each case, and (c) what firms were involved. 
Can allegations be justified that firms have made successful lenders for concessions by offering uneconomically high percentage returns tothe Department. 
Have complaints been made that pricesfor  'meals, drinks and other commodities at the terminal greatly exceed normal city prices. 
Can he say whether goods sold at the duty free shop are available at similar prices from several normal sources in the city. 
Have excessive prices been charged at the  terminal in an endeavour to offset uneconomically high tenders for the concessions. 
Has the Department considered the employment of management consultants to check the credentials of tenderers. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970' should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What sum has been provided under the 
States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act  1969  to each State in each year of the operation of the Act. 
What sum was provided in each category of service specified in the Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many doses of rubella vaccine ha. been distributed by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to the various States. 
How many doses of the vaccine have been used' by the Commonwealth on school children in the Australian Capital Territory and the Nor.hera Territory. 
In view of the serious nature of the rubella virus would the Minister give consideration to having vaccinations made available as pharmaceutical benefit. 
In view of the cyclical nature of the disease, is it anticipated that an epidemic will hit Australia in 1972 or 1973. 
What number of rubella cases have been recorded in Australia in (a) 1970 and (b) 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have charges for treatment in outpatient departments of New South Wales hospitals recently been substantially increased. 
Why has the Commonwealth refused to extend hospital and medical insurance lo patients receiving treatment in these departments. 
ls it intended lo provide insurance coverage for this purpose in the immediate future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What proportion of hospital bed costs are now met by (a) Commonwealth contributions, (b) Fund contributions and (c) other sources. 
What daily subsidy of hospital fees is paid by the Commonwealth in respect of (a) insured and (b) non-insured patients in (i) public, (ii) intermediate and (iii) private wards. 
What proportion of the fees charged, in each category, does the subsidy represent. 
 I support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Before I make my. remarks on the Bill I would like to comment on some points made by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  He made the point that Australia had one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world. That may be so, but there would be a lot of people who would ask: How can a young country such as ours with all the resources available to it and with all the needs that have to be satisfied be so mismanaged as to cause the sort of unemployment we have? Just think of the things we have to do, of the hospitals which are so urgently needed in the community, the schools and sewerage reticulation. Something like three-quarters of a million people are in need of sewerage services. Think of all the road and rail services that need to be provided, the desperate shortage of houses for so many people in our community. These things are mainly in the public sphere but there are many things to be catered for in private enterprise. There are so many things to be done for the nearly 13 million people in this country that it can only be regarded as gross mismanagement that we can so organise our resources to have this kind of unemployment at the moment. 
The honourable member also went on to talk about the cause of unemployment and alluded to other causes of which we are all very conscious at the present time, lt is true, and it is accepted in the community, that a good deal of unemployment is a deliberate result of Government policy. I know it seems harsh to say this and that Government members would have to reject it for political reasons. But look at the last Budget strategy. What was it aimed to do? It was aimed at preventing what the Government expected to be over spending in the community. The Government believed that the public had stored up so much savings that it was just about to descend on the community with a spending splurge which would give greater impetus to inflation in the country. Is this not correct? Of course it is. What happened? We had these various aspects of Government policy such as a credit restraint policy for 2 years in succession. We had steep increases in both direct and indirect taxation in order to take away some of the community's spending power - in other words, to contract employment and business and economic activity in the community. 
There are very strong restrictions on Government employment at all levels - Commonwealth, state and local government. These restrictions had their effect and were sorely felt by all those youngsters who left school recently or those tertiary students who sought vacation jobs only to find that there were so many fewer jobs available than there were 12 months before. Is this not a direct result of the Government's Budget strategy? Then there was what I would call a psychological depression of business, a warning to private enterprise that it ought to steady up. As a result the effects were felt on the stock exchange and in business circles. Those who go around our electorates are hearing complaints frequently from business people who say that there has been a loss of confidence in business circles in the community and that there has been this contraction of economic" activity. The Government gave point to this by the withdrawal, temporary though it was, of the investment allowance. So let there be no humbug about it. We have unemployment because the Government strategy produced it and now we will have the old notorious cycle with stop go policies we thought had left us  -  the measures we had about  10  years ago. 
Here is the Government trying to stop the economy, trying to halt spending and trying to contract business activity and all of a sudden now with about  6  or  8  months to a Federal election it has to press the go' burton. It hopes that, when the 'go* button is pressed the economic stimulus will be good enough to produce full employment again and get some life back into business activity. The Government will not care very much if its stop go policies result in another splurge of inflation in  6  or  12  months time after the elections are conveniently out of the way. All we have been saying tonight about unemployment is not just a matter of those unfortunate people who are out of jobs. It has its widespread dislocating effects on the economy at large. There is a lack of confidence, an undermining of confidence in business circles and the demoralising effects on all those who undertook long term study and who at the end of  5  or  6  years of tertia'ry education find that they cannot get the kind of jobs they had planned for when they began studying that long time ago. Unemployment not only affects the unemployed and their dependants but also people in business circles. There is this Curbed demand, this incidence of what is called 'stagflation' in the community today with restraint on investment. It does not have its effect only at the moment. The restriction that there will be on investment will have an effect in  3  or  4  years to come. A little later in my speech I hope to get around to speaking about the effects it has had on apprenticeship intake in our community - a very vital part of our economic life. 
There is just no faith in this Government which proceeds by these fits and starts. Therefore, the Government has only itself to blame for the position we are in at the present time. What it really amounts to is that the unemployed, who are immediately affected by it, are the ones who are bearing the brunt of the Government's economic policies, of its so-called corrective policies, and as a result we have the measure which is before us tonight. What a miserable thing it is. They are not my words but words in the Sydney 'Sun' editorial a week or two ago. A miserable hand out. Somebody referred to it as a fleabite Government policy in respect of unemployment. Here we are, at a time when the poverty line, which was recently set by the Melbourne University Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, is  $50  a week, and even with the increase provided under this Bill, confronting a man, wife and  2  children with the task of living on  $34  a week plus the little extra they get in child endowment. The benefit should have been doubled. There should have been an increase for the dependent wife as well as for the breadwinner. There should have been a substantial increase for the dependent children of the family. How can we expect people to be able to cater for their current needs and contractual obligations which they have? How will they cater for their hire purchase arrangements? How will they be able to pay off their homes? How will they be able to pay their municipal and water board rates and all of those other things that cannot be put aside? 
Yet a man and a wife are asked to do this on  $25  a week, and a man with a wife and  2  children is asked to do it on  $34  a week. The Government's approach is a niggardly one. If the Government had increased substantially the amount of money it gives to these people who are bearing the brunt of our economic policies that would not have led to inflation. It would not have given the stimulus to further price rises. These people would have been buying ordinary necessities in our shops. Many would have been only too glad to sell those goods to them. 
The problem is not just the number of people who are totally unemployed. One of the other aspects of it is the number of people who are under employed. They are rauch more numerous. They are the people who are not working full time, the people who formerly had overtime and have now lost it, the people whose wives were working. The unemployed wives cannot register for unemployment benefits if the breadwinner is working. So we have not only loss of individuals but also loss of the economy, which has all those needs that I described before to be satisfied. The cost of unemployment is the loss of productive opportunities that are forgone such as the homes, schools and sewerage services that could have been provided if these people were back in full time employment. This is the cost to all of us. This is the cost to the whole community. That is why unemployment is a most unfortunate thing in our society. 
Apart from what is contained in this measure, the Government is doing little, piffling sorts of things to try to relieve some of the unemployment. Under the rural unemployment scheme the Commonwealth is handing out $4im a month to local government bodies wilh which to employ people in rural areas. They are being employed to chip weeds, to mend fences and to carry out other menial tasks in a bits and pieces programme. This assistance is spread thinly around the whole country instead of there being some concerted programme to use the $4im a month for some worthwhile national purpose. Spread as it is over the whole of the nation it can amount only to this little bits and pieces, piffling kind of approach that we have. No wonder the 'Sydney Morning Herald' editorial of 18th February, under the heading 'Rural palliative', bad this to say:  . . the likelihood is that by spreading the funds thinly throughout the States's municipalities and shires they will be frittered away on minor, and often unnecessary projects of little lasting benefit to country towns. 
The editorial adds: lt is pointless encouraging the uneconomic primary producer to leave the land on the one hand and helping him to remain a little longer with relief handouts on the other. 
The programme in which the Government is engaged in relieving rural unemployment is no substitute for a genuine policy of decentralisation of population and industry. Decentralisation would be the much more fundamental approach that we would expect from an efficient government, but we do not get it from the present government. One might well ask  -  I think the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  tried to answer the question himself today: Why is it that the unemployment assistance is giving jobs to the unemployed only in rural areas? Why is it not for the many other people equally sorely tried in many of our metropolitan areas? The Prime Minister tried to say today that some other aspect of the Government's recent policy, as announced at the Premiers Conference, is helping to cater for them. I refuse to be convinced of that. 
Many people in metropolitan areas, including many thousands of our immigrants, are much worse off and are in much more dire trouble than even some of the unfortunate people in the countryside. Only some of the rural unemployed are receiving assistance. At the end of January about 5,000 of these people were getting jobs under the programme. So we have the spectacle that, on the one hand, some people are receiving this assistance and getting jobs - even if it is chipping weeds at $60 a week - but right alongside them in the same street are other adults receiving $17 a week in unemployment benefit. This is a most inequitable and unjust provision. 
I have already alluded to the disappointed school leavers who left school last year at the end of 4th form or 6th form and who were hoping to go into jobs. They found that jobs were not available for them, so they are going back to school to repeat 6th form or to go on to 5th form. That was not their intention. They were hoping to go into jobs. They are going back to repeat a year, or go into a higher form, which they never intended to do, simply because jobs are not available. They hope to get higher qualifications so that they may find employment at the end of another 12 months. The provision of schools and teachers is very costly. Parents are involved in great expense in sending such children back to school. 
I referred a little while ago to the tertiary students who sought jobs during the Christmas vacation. These days scholarships are not nearly adequate to keep a young man or a young lass, so students have to get vacation employment to keep them going during the 12 months ahead or the part of it during which they are carrying out their academic studies. The statistics provided to me show that only 20 per cent of the normal number of vacation jobs were available during the last Christmas vacation. Many students who are not on scholarships depend upon earning money during the 3 months vacation to pay their way through university, a college of advanced education or some other institute during the rest of the year. Many of them have been bitterly disappointed and thoroughly demoralised by the inflictions made upon them by the Government. 
In December 1971 in New South Wales alone there were 742 applicants seeking apprenticeships in carpentry and joinery through the Commonwealth Employment Service. There were only 94 vacancies in the building trades for those 742 applicants. I have already alluded to the dire necessity for housing. In New South Wales alone, for all the crafts in the building industry there were 1.344 apprenticeship applicants but only 304 vacancies, more than 4 applicants for every vacancy. In three or four years time this community will pay the penalty in the lack of skilled manpower to do the jobs that would be done by those apprentices had they had the opportunity. This year, 1972, will be a write-off as regards the training of many necessary skilled personnel. In the time available to me I want to speak very briefly about what 1 consider to be a concerted plan - it could come from as high as the Minister - administratively to depress the number of people becoming entitled to unemployment benefits. I have had sent to me anonymously through the mail a circular which was sent to all district officers in the Employment Branch of the Department of Labour and National Service. It reads: 
Advice has been received from the Department of Social Services that the provisions for granting Unemployment Benefit to minors have been changed. 
In relation to the administering of the Works Test it has been decided that it is not unreasonable to require a person 18 years of age or more to leave home to seek employment. A claim for Unemployment Benefit lodged by a claimant 18 years old or more who refuses to leave home to seek employment, subject to the other conditions of the Works Test, is to be rejected on the ground that he/she is not qualified under the Act. 
That circular is dated 2nd February 1972. It means that young girls, 18 years of age, who are unemployed and perhaps seeking their first job will be compelled to leave home, if the Department so requires it, to take up a job in some other locality. What are the limits to this? How far might they be expected to go? Might they be expected to go to Woop Woop in the country or to go interstate somewhere and pay exorbitant board, rent or some other accommodation charge to get employment? If they refuse to do that they are to be denied unemployment benefits. I reiterate that this circular states that benefit conditions 'have been changed'. In other words the Government has tightened up; it is trying to work people out of their entitlement. It is a piffling entitlement that they get, but here is a measure that is intended to deprive people of unemployment benefits. 
Another situation arose about a month and a half before Christmas when lots of youngsters who had sat for their Higher School Certificate were leaving school and applying for jobs, but no job was available for many of them. This was in about midNovember and late November. They were confronted with the question: Do you intend to return to education of some kind or another next year? If the person could not say definitely: T do not' he did not get any unemployment benefits. If a person said, for instance: 'I do not know; I have to wait for my examination results in midJanuary' no unemployment benefits were paid. In other words these people were expected to live on fresh air or under their parent's protection during another 2 or 3 months. If subsequently they did not go back to some kind of education, the Department promised it would consider retrospectively paying them unemployment benefits. I had experience of the sad case of a young man who had finished a course at an agricultural college, applied for a job but could not get it. He said he had to co into national service on 26th January. He was told: 'Sorry, you are out. You are going into some form of training.' Could you find a more shocking situation than that? This Government has created this unemployment position. I have tried to indicate the woeful costs to the community at large, but in my view they are nothing compared with the sadness and demoralisation of many of our young people and not so young people. I strongly support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Oxley. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students (a) entered and (b) graduated from the faculty of medicine in each relevant Australian university in each of the last 7 years. 
What first year quota applied in each instance. 
What (a) number and (b) percentage of the first year intake was in receipt of a Commonwealth university scholarship. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many persons during 1970-71 received (a) one-third, (b) two-thirds and (c) complete subsidy of their health insurance premiums because of their income level. 
What was the average duration of the subsidy in each category. 
What was the cost to revenue of the subsidies provided. 
Does the Prime Minister realise that it is now over 3 years since the Government established a committee of inquiry charged with finding a suitable site for a second major airport to serve Sydney? Why is it that a second committee of inquiry can forecast at the beginning of this year that it will not be able to make a recommendation as to the choice of site until next year, 4 years after the initial inquiry? Does the Prime Minister realise that the very many thousands of long suffering citizens living in the vicinity of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport are sick to the teeth with the Government's continued cynical delaying tactics in getting on with the task of building a second airport for Sydney? Will he take early action to get this project off the ground? 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What sum has been (a) approved and (b) granted under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 in respect of each State in each year of the operation of the Act. 
How many beds were provided in each case. 
What s the (a) location and (b) size of each project. 
Which States have not yet signified cooperation in the scheme. 
There are some things which the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  said with which I wholeheartedly agree. I am very well aware of the satisfaction that is achieved by many people who reside in homes for the aged. I have some of them in my own electorate. I visit them and I know that they are quite happy there. However, I take issue with the honourable member when he referred, as did the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in bis White Paper, to what the 
Labor Government had done or had not done prior to 1949. The honourable member went on to say that at chat time there was not an effective medical plan for the aged, in fact, the government of the day had provision for a very wide and comprehensive health plan. It was a plan which set out that a means test would not apply to patients in public hospitals. There was a plan for pharmaceutical benefits and a plan for doctors* assistance. But as is the case at present the doctors then were not so cooperative with the government of the day. 
In the field of housing the Chifley Government had a generous system of rebates for pensioners through the housing commissions. A lot of that has been done away with by successive Liberal-Country Party Governments. At that time there was also a plan to provide other kinds of assistance for the welfare of aged people, but I will not dwell on that at the moment. 
I do not want to take up an undue amount of time because I hope that my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  will get an opportunity of saying a few words on this White Paper, as he is very interested in this problem. The Minister said that there had been a record rate of development under the aged persons homes plan. So there might have been. But I think that when we start talking about record numbers or record achievements we have to line up what has been achieved against what the need is in the community. I think there are many people who would not be nearly so complacent as the Minister about the numbers, or the comparatively small number, of people who are in need of homes at low rates of interest and homes which can be purchased at a reasonable price. I took the trouble during the lunch hour break to ring the Housing Commission of New South Wales. I was informed that in that State single aged persons who applied for a Housing Commission home had to wait almost 6 years to receive that home. The Housing Commission is dealing with applications made by single people not later than December 1966. In other words, elderly single people who are seeking accommodation in a Housing Commission home have over a 5-year wait. I think that it is getting on towards a 4-year wait for married people. As we know, unfortunately most of the people who are in receipt of age pensions are in fact 'single* people. Most of them are widows while a smaller proportion are widowers. So, on that index alone of the waiting time for a housing commission home these are people in the community who are in very great need to be served. I do not think that this need will be served by so heavy a reliance on the aged persons homes plan. 
There is another aspect which has already been referred to. Many people who do get accommodation in aged persons homes are in fact comparatively wealthy people. I know of a number of people who have sold their homes and have used part of the money so received to buy into aged persons homes. 1 know that in many of these schemes unless people have $2,500  to  put down their names cannot go on the list. It might be true, as the Minister says, that some time in the future these homes will become available to other people who do not have such resources. But, of course, we have to keep in mind that as the years go by the numbers of elderly people in our community also will increase. We might still have a continuing need which will not be served by the plan as it operates at the moment. 
I admit that there are a number of people - very needy people - who are in aged persons homes. On the other hand there are many others who cannot get into these homes and others who have gone into the homes foi social reasons but not out of financial necessity. Many have sold their own homes and used part of their resources to buy into aged persons homes. They have used the other part of their resources to keep within the means test limit by going on a holiday overseas or for some other such purpose. What we are concerned about is this: Are the people most in need being served by this scheme? I think not. 
Then there is the desperate position of many citizens of whom I know - and I think that other honourable members can testify to the same position in their own electorates. There are many aged people who are paying for rental accommodation through private sources. It is a very sorry state to have to advise that as a result of the abolition of rent control by Liberal governments many of these people are paying anything up to $18, $20 and even higher amounts a week for rental of private accommodation. I have often wondered why it has not occurred to the Government to make some kind of provision, apart from the needs of aged persons, along the lines of the aged persons homes scheme for invalids and widows. There are a good many widows with families whom I personally know and who are paying extortionate rentals for the accommodation. I hope that the Government will give consideration to making some extension of the scheme or providing an alternative scheme so that these people can be looked after as well. 
One other aspect of the scheme is the differential of availability of homes in each of the States. The Minister's White Paper indicates that South Australia provides per capita a better proportion of homes than does any other State. It is notable that the most populous States - New South Wales and Victoria - are the lowest in terms of the percentage of people in those communities who are being provided for in this way. Then, there is a difference between localities even within a State. Can we be assured that the areas - the communities - occupied mainly by lower income earning people are the ones which will receive the most benefit from the Aged Persons Homes Act? I have grave doubts about this. I think that most of the homes are being provided in the middle class communities. These are the places where one finds the service club organisations, possibly, the more affluent people who go to church, subscribe to a church and thereby enable homes for the aged to be built or to attract the Commonwealth subsidy. In regard to municipal councils, it is not generally the hard pressed municipalities, where most of the ratepayers are in the low income group which are contributing towards the provision of the money that attracts the Commonwealth subsidy. One might again ask whether the people most in need are the ones who are being served by the Act. 
Despite what was said by the honourable member for Paterson, I think it would not be a bad idea if we were to persist with this scheme that contributions by State Governments should be allowable. The Stale governments should be able to make a contribution that would attract a $2 for $1 subsidy from the Commonwealth. In my view, this would be a more realistic attack on the problem. Altogether, 1 do nol think that the Government has much on which to congratulate itself in relation to what it is doing for aged people. I know that this paper deals principally with the aged persons homes scheme, but there are other allied schemes that do have an impact upon the welfare of the aged. There is the governnent nursing homes scheme which was b-ought in, I think, in 1969. Under this scheme the Government made available :o the States $5m on a matching grant basis. Until November 1971, only S337.000 or less than 7 per cent of that money had been used simply because the Spates were not prepared to meet the matching conditions which were demanded by the Commonwealth. So. many people have been forced to go into private nursing homes and to  pav  considerable amounts of money from their own capital or from cont-ibutions by their immediate relatives in order to stay in those private nursing homes. On the other hand, money that should be made available by governments for building nursing homes is not forthcoming simply because the States are not prepared to cooperate with the Commonwealth in the scheme. 
In New South Wales, up until November 1971, not lc of the $I.8m that was made available to it had been spent on government nursing homes in that State. Another example is the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act. This scheme was designed to make an alternative provision for those aged people who could not contribute to the aged persons homes scheme. It was supposed to provide finance to build homes for pensioners or for aged people on low incomes. An average of S5m a year over 5 years was provided for a housing programme for age pensioners. At the end of 2 years the States had spent just under one-half of the SI Om that was available in those 2 years. Here again, there has been a breakdown of co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. To dwell once again on my own State of New South Wales, $4.3m was available to that State but only $2.2m was spent, in other words, there was again a breakdown of co-operation. Then, just before the 1969 election, there was the States Grants (Home 
Care) Act that bad a 3-pronged approach to the matter of looking after the welfare of aged people. 
First of all. there were the home care services and, again this depended on matching grants from the States. This was designed to provide domiciliary care - housekeeping services and the like - to aged people in their own homes. Time will not permit me to go into this more deeply but suffice to say that in 1969-70, $500,000 was made available by the Government to be matched by the States, but of that $500,000, only $31,413 in fact was used. In the following year, $566,000 was made available and $317,000, in round figures, was used. The second prong of the States Grants (Home Care) Act provided for subsidies for senior citizen centres. This again depended upon co-operation with the States and local governments. However, most of the States have not co-operated and, as a result, nothing like the amount of money that was provided by the Commonwealth has been made use of, and comparatively little assistance has been provided towards the erection of senior citizen centres. 
Likewise, there was provision for welfare officers in the senior citizen centres. Paramedical services, such as physiotherapy, chiropody and so on, were to be provided. This was a big boost before the 1969 election but very little in fact has come into reality. 
I raise again the question of the main matter before us, namely, the aged persons homes scheme. I question seriously whether in fact the people most urgently in need of this assistance are benefiting by the scheme. I acknowledge that the scheme has many noble aspects to it. There are many happy people in the homes that have been provided by the scheme. However, I am still very much aware of the thousands of people who have missed out on the scheme and for whom it does not make any provision at all. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
The constituents of the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  will make their own judgment about the content of his contribution this afternoon. They have fresh in their minds his gratuitous insult to them only a couple of days ago when, in an action which is probably unprecedented in the history of this Parliament, he referred to his own constituents as misguided people simply because he did not agree with the sentiments of a petition he was asked to present to this House. I think that most people who are attentive to this debate, which is carrying on from last Tuesday night, by now will be able to recognise what a sordid and shabby political stunt it has developed into as far as the Government is concerned. 
The debate was adjourned on Tuesday night and carried forward to today. I wonder why. It was simply because the debate was on the air on Tuesday night but would not have been on the air yesterday. But it has been resurrected to take place while we are on the air today. Normally so few members on the Government side speak on education Bills in this Parliament that Australian Labor Party speakers often have to speak in succession. Yet we find that in this debate there is a string of Government speakers. I wonder why. I. think the spirit of the remarks that have just been made by the honourable member for Denison and the remarks made the other night by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  gives a clear indication of what the Government is up to. It is trying to resurrect the old sectarian bitternesses in this Parliament on the matter of State aid for education. 1 will have a bit more to say about that in a moment. 
We are supposed to be debating 2 Bills. This is supposed to be a cognate debate. The second Bill we are discussing, in case nobody remembers it by now, deals with the provision of Commonwealth capital grants to the States for state schools, the schools that look after 75 per cent of the children in our community. But there has hardly been a reference by Government members to that Bill in this debate. The Government has been so preoccupied with the dirty little business of stirring up the old sectarian scum simply because there happens to be an election coming up this year. This has not been an education debate; this has been just a dirty little political scavenging hunt in the hope that something can be brought up and quoted later on in the election campaign. 1 will dca) first of all - 1 hope 1 will deal with it proportionately - with the Stales Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969. Let me be perfectly clear. I support aid for children in private schools or in nongovernment schools. 
That is not true at all. One only has to look at the Australian Labor Party's policy and platform to see clearly registered there the overwhelming wish of the Labor Party to provide aid to non-state schools and to provide it on the basis of research into their needs and on the basis of need. More about that, too, a little later on. 
This Bill increases the primary per capita subsidy from S35 to $50 per annum and the secondary per capita subsidy from $50 to S68 per annum. The first question I ask is: How were these figures arrived at? Why $68 per annum? What is the research that gives a cue to why this figure was chosen? Nothing is available to the House and 1 understand that nothing is available to the Government. This is just another one of the ad hoc, piecemeal arrangements that characterise the Government's socalled education policy. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  felt self-conscious about it because be said in part during his second reading speech: 
The Government recognises the need for further attention to be given to measures which the Commonwealth and the States might take to assist the independent schools on a longer term basis. 
This is characteristic of all that the Commonwealth has done not only in the field of private education but also in the field of State education. It is characteristic of the 
Government's piecemeal, ad hoc arrangements. As I asked, why this particular amount? One of the things I am moved to look at is just how much is being provided in these 2 Bills for the respective school systems, the public school system on the one hand and the non-state school system on the other. The total cost in 1972 of the new rates of aid to non-state schools is $34.3m. This means that in this year the Commonwealth will provide S9.7m extra by way of this increase in the per capita grant. As against that - the Minister can correct me if my interpretation is incorrect - the Commonwealth is providing in one financial year $13. 33m for the capital needs of state schools. I believe that this is so. My reading of both the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in December and the speech made by the Minister for Education and Science when presenting this Bill indicates that they were the proportions - $9.7m for non-state school students as against $13. 33m for State schools in a financial year. 
What are the respective needs? One way of looking at the question is to look at the number of students who will be catered for. In 1970 - that is the fewest year for which statistics are available to me - there were in Government schools 2,160,177 students, and in non-government schools there were 608,056 students. If my previous interpretation is correct, and I firmly believe it to be so, on a rough estimate - a pretty close estimate, actually - the per capita grant to students in government schools provided by the Bill is about $6 per annum. On the other hand the estimate for the per capita grant to private schools runs out at between $15 and $16 per annum. In other words, about 2* times as much per head is to be provided for private schools as is provided for government schools in these Bills. 
The Minister asked why it is that state schools have a lower retention power than do the non-state schools. It is a simple matter. If we give to those who already have most and if we give to those who are already best furnished, what can we expect? Is it any wonder that of those children who go to State schools and who proceed to high school only 28 per cent continue on to the higher school certificate? On the other hand, in non-state schools 75 ner cent go on to the higher school certificate. 
It will still come out as a far greater contribution to students per capita in none-state schools than in State schools as provided in these 2 Bills. 
The Minister can speak afterwards. I have scarcely enough time in which to say what I want to say without listening to him now. The Minister asked: Why is it that State schools have such a low retention rate compared with non-government schools? This is not a matter only of comparing government schools with non-government schools. It involves also comparing the great wealthy private schools with the many not very wealthy parochial schools in the Catholic school system. I can never understand, quite frankly, why my Catholic friends would argue that the children in the best furnished great public schools should command exactly the same per capita grant as do children in parochial schools in the inner suburban areas of our great metropolitan areas where there are many migrant children. Why should the same be spent on them as that which is spent on the children in the great and wealthy private schools? I cannot understand this. 
The Bill that we are discussing continues the trend that has been established in the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act for the triennium 1971-72 to 1974-75. Last year this legislation was debated and it provided that the Commonwealth Government would spend on children in government schools $36.83 per head whereas on students in non-government schools almost twice as much would be spent - $73.82. Where is the equity in this? How does this measure up with the Minister's protestations about wanting to establish equality of educational opportunity in our community? Does the Minister really believe that the children who are going to the greater public schools need as much spent on them as do the children in the ordinary parochial schools or, in fact, those in the state school systems which have insufficient teachers, where children are being taught in buildings that were constructed in the 1890s, where many schools are without electricity or heating systems, where inadequate teaching aids are available and where teachers want to be transferred from schools as quickly as possible? 
Under the legislation we are discussing a wealthy private school which has 600 students receiving secondary education will get $40,800. If one of these wealthy private schools - there are a few of them as was evident from recent articles in the daily Press - has 800 secondary students it will receive $54,400. Where such a school has 1,000 students - there are a number of these - it will get $68,000 by way of assistance from the Commonwealth Government. Additionally, of course, these schools get science laboratories and library facilities. Above all, the parents who send children to these wealthy schools get the most by way of taxation concessions. Children who attend these great private schools gain the great bulk of Commonwealth scholarships both at secondary level and tertiary level. Is it not a shocking system that provides for these kinds of things - that gives to those who have the most and denies to those who most need it? This is the system that the Government is propagating. I am not identifying this as a matter between government and nongovernment schools because it operates within the non-government school sector as I have already indicated. The ordinary person who sends his child to a local Catholic school gets paltry little by way of taxation concessions. The person who has sufficient money to be able to send his children to one of the greater public schools, or socalled public schools which are private in many cases, enjoys immeasurably greater taxation concessions.  His  benefits are  2i  to 3 times as great as those received by the ordinary person. 
What I have said is applicable also to primary schools. However, 1 shall not go through the details. One can understand - although I do not always countenance the kind of propaganda used - the demand that is growing in our community for some public accountability for these amounts of public money that are made available to these approved educational institutions. A short while ago I mentioned how much would go to those schools. Just imagine one school getting $68,000 to use at its own discretion without any accountability. I wonder what would happen to a headmaster of a government school who spent more than the prescribed amount of $200 that he is permitted to spend at his own discretion. He has to account in detail for all his expenditure. It is understandable why people should question expenditures in the greater public schools in view of what the Government is doing. 
What is wanted is a policy of positive discrimination - discrimination in favour of those who have little. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, indicated that there is a needs basis formula that has been worked out not only in South Australia, which is just starting ils scheme, but also in Great Britain. Schemes like this do operate. They take account of the socio-economic status of an area. A needs basis takes account of the pupilteacher ratio that operates in a school. Schemes take account of the kind of buildings in which the teaching takes place and of the various ancillary staff available to it by way of clerks, counsellors, health care people and so forth. Surely to God we can recognise that there are some schools that are poorly off compared wilh others which are well furnished. But the Government introduces a Bill that gives equal amounts to those schools which have everything and those which have little and are operating under pretty paltry conditions. In respect of discriminating in favour of those people who have a need, I believe, from an Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast this morning, that a report has been furnished to the Minister on this very subject. It recommends a programme of positive discrimination in favour of schools that have a high migrant intake. This is another factor in the whole business. As I have said, there should be a scheme that discriminates positively in favour of those who have little and those who need most by way of assistance in their educational programmes. 1 turn now to a consideration of government schools, which cater for 75 per cent of all students. No Government supporter seemed prepared to discuss this aspect. This Bill provides, as I understand it, $20m to the end of next financial year. If that is so we are spending, as I have suggested already, at the rate, of $13.33m a year. This money is being provided not to the end of this financial year but next financial year. Why this amount of S20m? Why was that figure chosen? What research indicated that only $20m was needed for all of the States for their additional capital needs? Was this figure based on research? Of course it was not. The State Ministers for Education furnished this Parliament with a nationwide survey of educational needs, but what did the Government do about it? It disregarded it and came out with some patter that it had made more money available in the last CommonwealthState financial agreement to take account of the needs of the States. But will it do so? Let us consider what has been requested. The nationwide survey of educational needs indicted that over the 5-year period to 1975 an amount of $72 Im would be needed for the capital needs of government schools. Further money would be required for non-State schools. I emphasise that this was the requirement for capital needs, not recurrent needs. An amount of $ 1,443m would be required for recurrent and capital needs. Admittedly the States are in a better financial position to help meet their capital needs, but to nothing like the extent the Government pretends. 
The Research Service of the Parliamentary Library has estimated that there would need to be a great growth rate in State government expenditures in capital funds of 28 per cent per annum in order to meet the kind of need that is evidenced by the nationwide survey. Now the nationwide survey is out of date. Already it is being examined in terms of the increased expenditure brought about by inflationary trends. Increased amounts will be needed. Can anyone honestly say that $20m spread among the States will make any worthwhile contribution to the capital needs of the various schools? One person has estimated that it will provide about 4 new high schools in each of the States. Imagine, for the whole of New South Wales it will provide just 4 high schools. There are literally hundreds of high schools that should be pushed over so that new ones can be built in the modern style to cater for new techniques in education. 
We do not want to get caught up in this dog fight of state schools against non-state schools. In my view the pupils are all Australian citizens and the schools deserve help. The Opposition would not think of making equal amounts of money available within the State system to each school. Of course it would not. It would recognise that there are some schools which are much more needy than others and it would spend more money on them. The same can be said in regard to the private school sector. There are many private schools unfortunately which are in dire need and their needs are becoming greater for reasons which the Minister himself acknowledged. These schools are becoming reliant on lay teachers to whom they pay award rates and for whom soon they will have to provide long service leave and a superannuation scheme. I sympathise with them in their dilemma but I cannot for the life of me understand why hard pressed schools within the private sector get only the same amount that is given to the wealthy schools in the community. Of course, finally we have to weigh up this whole business of priorities and the kind of grants provided in these Bills, including the grants to the very wealthy schools, against what the Commonwealth is not doing, for instance, in the field of preschool education. There are so many mothers going off to work and having to pay $12 to $14 a week to leave their youngsters in a private kindergarten or even in a kindergarten subsidised by local government. What are we doing about education for the mentally and physically handicapped? Is it not a commentary on our social priorities that these people should still be going out and running raffles to raise money for schools in which to educate their afflicted children? Can we afford to continue in this way? The Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare tabled a report on 5th May 1971 - nearly 12 months ago - in which it indicated the needs of the schools catering for the handicapped. What has been done about it? There has been no rush by this Government to do anything in that field. The matter has been referred to an interdepartmental committee to be critically examined and it has been critically examined for over 12 months. What are we doing in the field of compensatory education to help the schools in most need? I cannot elaborate any further now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfullyshoweth: 
That on December 10 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', 
Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right 1o security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all slates, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on  a  percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote  a  comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  who has just spoken in this debate, made some remarkable statements about education. They are all the more remarkable when one has vividly in mind what the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had to say this afternoon when dealing with another education Bill. At the time the Minister was chiding the Labor Party about its proposal for an Australian educational commission. He said that it would be a great bureaucratic structure which would try to dictate education through the length and breadth of the land. Yet the honourable member for Denison has just said that he saw no great merit in having participation in the policy making and administration of education by the community at large. I am sure that that is a view that would not be shared by many of his ex-colleagues in the teaching profession, or by the many informed people in our community. 
The Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill which we are now discussing is an enabling Bill. Most of the meat that will be used to build up the structure that is proposed will be provided by regulation, but even allowing for the fact that we are dealing with a proposal for only the skeleton of a teaching service it is still in many ways a disappointing Bill. As has been said, the Bill is designed to meet an immediate situation. The South Australian Government gave notice in 1970, I think h was, that as from 1975 it would no longer provide teachers to service Commonwealth responsibilities in the Northern Territory. I understand that a proposal is also imminent from the New South Wales 
Department of Education to cease making teachers available for service in the Australian Capital Territory. 
It is that type of uncertainty that has led to the introduction of this Bill. I am still left wondering whether this is meant to be a stop gap Bill or whether it is meant to establish a permanent structure. The Minister certainly gave no clear indication of what he thinks about the matter. I have read carefully his second reading speech and I have also made a detailed reading of the Bill. My reading indicates that the Government has still not made up its mind. I would venture to say that it has not made up its mind about the kind of educational authority it would like to see established in the Australian Capital Territory. The people of the Australian Capital Territory have made many representations to honourable members on both sides of this Parliament in recent times. I am sure that they would be very greatly disappointed to hear that the present structure is in fact to be a permanent structure for educational control in the Territory. 
It is not a particularly inspiring or new approach to education in the Bill. As I have already intimated, no obvious attempt is made in the Bill to stimulate wide community involvement. This is a feature of Australian education that is notoriously absent Almost every educationist who visits Australia is amazed at the rather bureaucratic and dictatorial control of our educational set up. We talk so glibly about education for a democracy, but the model we offer to students in the classrooms is in so many respects still a very dictatorial or bureaucratic control. 
There does not seem to be a recognition that the professional teacher has something worthwhile to offer in the running of the service to which he belongs. How very different is the status accorded to teachers by this Government to that afforded to other professional groups such as doctors, architects and lawyers. Would anyone ever imagine that the Government would set up some kind of control over the medical profession without having representatives of the doctors themselves on the controlling body? The position is the same with architecture, law and the other learned professions. In respect of teaching there is this belittling of the professional status. It is assumed that teachers have nothing worthwhile to offer to the running of the system. As a result so many people from overseas are quite amazed by the lack of community involvement and community participation in our schools. 
Nearly every parents and citizens organisation laments the fact that only about 25 parents might turn up to a meeting at a school of 1,000 students. There is a lack of interest that probably has its origin in the fact that we entrust to these parent bodies only the running of fetes and other means of revenue raising to provide the facilities not provided by the Government. We do not give those organisations the opportunity to make decisions about how a school will be run or about what kind of curriculums and syllabuses the students will have in the course of their studies. No, the parents are assumed not to have any competence in these matters. Yet honourable members opposite will still talk glibly about education for a democracy. There is certainly no democratic participation in our educational scheme. 
The scheme proposed in the Bill, I concede, does provide a basis of professional security for a group of teachers who will serve under various Commonwealth educational authorities and for other teachers who will be on loan from the Commonwealth to the States and other Territories, and indeed, to other countries. However, I would like to refer to other features of this Bill. One of the notable features of the Bill is that it does not provide for an integrated educational service. One of the obvious things it does is to create a division or separation between the teaching service, on the one hand, and the authority that runs the schools, on the other hand. This is unique, and to that extent the Bill is original and does provide something different. Whether it is justified is something about which the Minister has not had much to say. As a matter of fact, he claimed that it is better for a teacher employment service to be run separately from the authority that runs the schools. I do not know whether he meant that as a general principle or as something that applies to the particular situation we are dealing with here. 
If the Minister thinks that it is desirable as a general principle he certainly gave no evidence to justify his viewpoint. There can be justification - and I think the Minister was getting around to saying this - for separating the teaching employment service from the running of the schools as each educational authority is so small in extent that it is necessary to combine them, and the way to do it is by the formula set out in this Bill. I have already referred to the fact that this Bill provides for a very bureaucratic kind of control. It provides for one commissioner to run the whole Commonwealth teaching service. It provides for one commissioner who will deal with the supply of teachers on request from Papua New Guinea, any country of the Pacific, or indeed, any other Asian country that might seek the provision of teachers by the Australian Government. 
It has been said that, after all, only a very small number of teachers are involved and it is a very small educational service. It was acknowledged by the honourable member for Denison mat about 2,000 teachers are involved, with not only quite distinct qualifications but also a great variety of qualifications and experience. I understand that these 2,000 teachers will be responsible for servicing about 40,000 students. The capital investment involved in the teaching service will be over $100m. The important thing is that whilst the numbers of teachers and students involved are not as great as are usually involved in a State teaching service, there is greater diversity in nature than any other teaching set-up in Australia. In view- of the nature of the task involved I think there is justification for more than one commissioner to be in control. We have suggested that there ought to be 3 commissioners, and this is the view of the professional teachers themselves. The Australian Teachers Federation has proposed that there should be 3 commissioners. 
We, like the Federation, have insisted that at least one of those commissioners should represent the teachers, who have an important stake in the educational process. But it is not only a question of their having a personal stake in it; there is also the question of the educational intelligence that they bring to doing a task that is so important. That is the main reason why teachers should have a say in the policy making and in the administrative process. 
But not only teachers have to be considered; the community at large ought to be entitled to have some say in the running of schools. In America, in Great Britain and in many other countries parents and the community at large are involved in the running of schools as part of a democratic society. Of course, sometimes it can be overdone, and I would not like to recommend that it should be overdone in this instance. 
But we have gone to the other extreme of appointing a one-man bureaucracy to run the Commonwealth Teaching Service. As I said previously, it is belittling the professional status of teachers and it is disregarding the genuine rights of parents, citizens and all those in the community who not only pay the piper but also have a definite interest in the educational process. It is against all the world trends of seeking greater involvement by these people. Not only will we deny teachers, parents and other specially interested groups a say in the running of the educational process; but in this Bill we even deny them any participation by way of their serving on an advisory council. This view was pressed very strongly by the teachers and by various community groups, but again the Commonwealth rejected it. So instead of making a progressive step, we are making a very regressive step. Even in our State systems of education there are advisory bodies. In the Department of Technical Education there are advisory bodies on courses, on curricula and on college administration, and all these bodies have advisory committees. But here we are to have a one-man show, a one-man band. As I said, in my view it is a quite regressive step. 
Another feature of the Bill is the provision for Public Service Board supervision. All over Australia a concerted attempt has been made to throw off the domination of the Public Service Board, not because of any personal dislike of members of the Board but because it is recognised that the province of responsibility, the nature of responsibility or the diversity of responsibility of Public Service Boards - whether they be State boards or, in this case, the Commonwealth Public Service Board - have extended enormously. How can a board that is charged with the control of all the other Commonwealth . responsibilities bring the right kind of judgment to bear on the running of an educational body? An educational body, by its very nature, requires its own authority. Yet under this Bill the Commissioner will be obliged, in determing salaries and conditions of service, to submit proposals for the approval of the Public Service Board so that there can be a consistency of salaries and conditions as between all Commonwealth employees. As I have said, in many States strong pressure has been exerted to remove, education authorities from the supervision of the Public Service Board. 
There is no comparable body within the authority of the Commonwealth Public Service Board with which the new Teaching Service can be compared. The essence of determining conditions of employment is that they have to be related to the conditions applying to some other body. You cannot compare the employment conditions of pregnant teachers, about which the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  spoke at some length and with some feeling, with those of public servants. The honourable member went on to say  -  I will not labour the point now, and that is not meant to be a pun - that there is a distinct difference between a female clerk working in comparative secrecy or isolation and a teacher who has to stand before a class. Obviously the pregnant teacher has not the same liberty, if 1 may put it that way, in carrying on her professional duties as has somebody else who is less exposed to the public. Therefore, you cannot liken the position of a pregnant teacher to that of any other female in the Public Service who might be in that condition. This is just one other instance where Public Service Board supervision is not warranted. 
Teachers have expressed concern about transferability within the Service. Under clause 16 of the Bill a teacher may be posted to any post in Australia or to any of its Territories. We think that this is an unwarranted intrusion into the professional status of teachers. The Government would not do it with other professional groups. We suggest - we will move an amendment ro this effect - that a teacher's consent should be obtained before he or she is posted to another authority. The only limitation that is provided in the Bill is that if a teacher is sent to some authority other than within Australia or within its Territories, then his or her consent has to be obtained. Let me take the case of a teacher here in Canberra. We suggest that before that teacher can be sent to teach in the Northern Territory or in Papua New Guinea or Norfolk Island his or her consent should be obtained to transfer him or her from the authority which controls education in Canberra. 
Another matter of some concern to teachers is the lack of provision in the Bill for a promotions committee. Obviously if there is to be the number of educational authorities that are mentioned in this Bill - the Australian Capital Territory authority, the Northern Territory authority, the Papua New Guinea authority and maybe other authorities - certainly a great diversity of professional experience and professional qualifications will be involved. It will be a very difficult task for the new Teaching Service to equate the service of a teacher in one of those authorities - say, a teacher teaching Aborigines in the Northern Territory - with the service of a teacher at, say, the Narrabundah school here in Canberra. A good deal of intelligence will be required in trying to equate those positions and to provide for an equitable system of promotion. It has been strongly recommended that perhaps there ought to be a teachers' representative on a promotions committee. This would more likely make the promotion system more acceptable. 
There is provision in the Bill for a promotions appeal board. On that board there will be one elected representative of the teachers, one representative nominated by the Commissioner and an independent  chairman  appointed by the Minister. This means that there will be 2 boss's men on the promotions appeal board as against one representative of the employees. The other point to note about this setup is that the Independent  chairman  appointed by the Minister will not be required, under the terms  of  the Bill, to have any particular qualifications, and there is no indication within the Bill as to how the Minister is to select the  chairman.  It is recommended to the Minister and to the Government that the independent  chairman  might well be a judge. After all, he will be dealing with some very important problems affecting the morale of a pretty extensive teaching service. 
One other matter that gives concern to those who look at this Service and who are likely to find employment is the Commissioner's discretion regarding the tenure of office of teachers. Teachers are very disturbed at the unfettered discretion which will be available to the Commissioner under clause 32 (1.). That sub-clause states that if the Commissioner finds that he has a greater number of teachers generally, or in particular classifications or positions, than are needed he may transfer such excess to any area under Commonwealth responsibility or he may retire them from the Service. We are giving all this authority to one man. It will be a one-man bureaucracy. The Bill does not contain any criteria as to how the Commissioner is to determine what is an excess. It refers to all sorts of educational implications about pupil-teacher ratios, class loads, teaching loads and so on. All this is' entrusted to one man and there is to be no right of appeal from his decision. There are to be rights of appeal as far as promotions are concerned, but there is to be no right of appeal against this discretion which is to be 'given to this one man. There is cause for suspicion from a reading of clause 16 of the Bill that the Commissioner - the one-man authority - will have the right to intrude into such fields as the determining of teaching rights and class sizes. If that is true it will be bureaucracy gone mad, especially in such a diverse educational scene as the one to which I am referring. There is also the question of the training of teachers. In this respect the Australian Labor Party's amendment has proposed that the Commissioner negotiate with the universities to establish faculties of education wherever they are needed, particularly  at the Australian National University, to uplift the professional standards of teachers. 
The Australian Labor Parry's amendment is designed to do 4 things. Firstly, it is designed to democratise the policy making and administrative procedures of the service and to gain a genuine community involvement in the educational process. (Extension of time granted.) Secondly, it is designed to uplift the professional standards and status of the participating teachers in the ways I have indicated. Thirdly, it aims to divorce education from the rigidities of Public Service Board control. Fourthly, it aims to make a flexible teaching service, backed by professional security, available to not only Commonwealth areas of responsibility but also our neighbours in the Pacific region. 
Earlier the Minister himself virtually admitted the value of this amendment. He. suggested at the time that any worthwhile commissioner with good sense would make sure that teachers were placed in locations in which they sought to provide their services. He said the essence of this was to provide a contented teaching service. He accepts that it is very desirable to have a contented teaching service. I am sure that he could have no objection to this amendment, which asks that a teacher, before being posted to a particular education authority, should have the opportunity of consenting or otherwise to such an appointment. I think that the Minister has given all the reasons why this amendment should be carried. Members of this Commonwealth Teaching Service will serve under quite a diversity of conditions not only environmentally but in terms of family provisions that are available in different areas and a number of other factors as well. He would want to have some choice in where he is sent. 
In addition 1 make the point that the Minister in relying on what he has called Mie good sense of the Commissioner to place people in desirable locations ignores the experience of many State teaching services. Many teachers have left the various State teaching services simply because they did not have an opportunity to be placed in the location that they felt desirable. A discontented teacher is certainly no asset to any educational service and this amendment, if it is accepted, will do much to ensure, in this sphere of influence, the contentedness of the teaching service. As I have pointed out, we are, after all, catering for quite a diversity of locations. We can think of the Australian Capital Territory, the teaching of Aborigines in the Northern Territory and serving in Papua New Guinea. Once a teacher has joined the Service he is liable, as the Bill stands, to be sent to any one of these locations. In view of experiences that I know of I seriously suggest to the Minister that it would be worth while to accept this amendment. To do otherwise could seriously prejudice recruitment to the Commonwealth Teaching Service. I know that there are other aspects. The Service will attract people because of the diversity of experiences that are available and because of the areas to which they can go to serve; but I am certain that many will be deterred by the thought that they could be sent to loca tions which would be quite distasteful to them. I urge the Committee to accept the amendment. 
I support the amendment. It was said a little while ago that we are prepared to trust the commissioner in the matter of locating teachers. It was said that he could exercise good sense. What has suddenly happened to his good sense when we get this provision.  His  good sense has run down the gutter. We have to take comparatively trivial matters such as this to the Minister for his decision on each occasion. A good case can be made out for the interchange of teachers between different countries. It is important not only in terms of goodwill between countries but it is also a good thing for the cross fertilisation of ideas in education and inter-cultural relationships. 
Reference has been made to the Colombo Plan and other aid. I cannot think of a more sensible thing to do in this field than implement the interchange of teachers, sending our teachers abroad and inviting teachers overseas to come here. It is happening already, as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  indicated. In New South Wales schools at present quite a number of American teachers are working. Some teachers have come from Asian countries and also probably from European countries. It would be a good thing for education to have a great deal more interchange of teachers and their ideas of running educational systems. Let the Government admit that the Opposition has made at least jone sensible suggestion tonight. I do not think that this one can be denied. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Minister aware of the widespread and increasing dissatisfaction and sense of insecurity among employees of Qantas Airways Ltd? Is morale among employees at an all-time low? Has this unhappy situation arisen from a heavy and continuing programme of retrenchment, early retirement and downgrading of employment status within that airline's work force? Is the feeling among employees of Qantas that the airline's interests have been sold out in order to obtain increased export quotas of primary products in the United States of America justified? Finally, can the Minister inform the House of any steps currently being taken to halt further disruption of that airline's work force? 
I ask for leave to make a short statement to correct a factually incorrect statement made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at question time yesterday regarding the way in which the Senate Labor Opposition voted last week on the State Grants (Independent Schools) Bill. 
I support the amendment. I have just had a look at the Commonwealth Public Service Board report, and I find that as at 30th June 1971 there were 237,000 full time employees in the Commonwealth Public Service. That is a very sizeable number. However probably more relevant to the point is that the Public Service Board is responsible for employment in such a diverse and extensive service that one can hardly expect it to have expertise in a particular field such as education. It is true that the trend all over Australia has been to try to divest public service boards of control over education. It has been found over the years that public service board control implies a rigidity and lack of real communication. Quite often there has not been anybody on the board with any particular expertise in this field. I know that in recent times in New South Wales there has been an insistence that at least one member of the board be somebody who is quite knowledgeable in the matter of education. 
However there has been a public campaign to establish an educational commission. The Liberal and Country Parties in New South Wales back in about 1965, before they formed a government, promised to bring in such a commission, the whole idea being that it would bring more understanding into the administration of education if it had its own control. It was suggested, of course, that the education commission would be representative of teachers themselves, the practitioners in the field; that it would have represented on it also parent organisations and various other interested community organisations. In my view, this is a distinct improvement on the kind of administration that we have had over the years. Unfortunately, when the Liberal Party and the Country Party did come into power in New South Wales they had second thoughts on the matter for some sort of domestic political reasons and they did not go ahead with the idea of an education commission of the type that they had promised in 1965. In fact, it set up another kind of commission which has advisory powers only. 
Under this measure, the Public Service Board will have the right of veto on salaries and conditions such as the promotional arrangements of teachers of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. As I have already tried to indicate to the House, we think that this new Service should be in advance of the trend if need be, rather than lag behind what seems to be likely in various States. Education should have its own administration and should not be subject to any kind of veto or sanction from a very busy body such as the Public Service Board which is responsible for nearly a quarter of a million employees, which is responsible for all the Commonwealth departments and can exercise some sanction over various statutory bodies that come under the Commonwealth's control. In my view no body could keep a very close watch on a department such as we are creating and at the same time have all those other responsibilities. Therefore, I support the amendment that has been circulated. 
Firstly I want to register my disappointment that apparently there is disinterest on the part of Government supporters in this legislation. This is pioneering legislation. Let us contrast the participation of Government supporters- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I point out to the honourable member that we are in Committee. 
I just want to mention this point in passing. Let us contrast the non-participation of Government supporters in this debate with their participation in the recent debate on aBillrelating to the grant of $9.6m to independent schools. That debate lasted about 4 days. The issue we are discussing is a fundamental one - Public Service Board control over education. I again register my belief that this is a thoroughly retrograde step. I think the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  put his finger right on the matter when he said that in this Bill the Government has failed to provide the kind of control that ought to be provided, namely, that there should be 3 commissioners one of whom would represent the teaching service thus giving teachers a professional dignity and democratic participation in the service in which they work, one representating other interested sections of the community, and a third representative appointed by the Minister for Education and Science or the Government. We of the Opposition also would like to have an advisory committee set up. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I point out that the honourable member is getting rather wide of the terms of the clause and the amendment which the Committee is debating. 
With due respect, we are talking about the control of education. Clause 25, which we are considering, deals with it. This clause sets out the duties of the Commissioner. We are saying that the Government is thrusting power on to the Commissioner and is relying on the backup of the Public Service Board. We think that is not only retrograde but that unfortunately it will be ineffective. Once the Commissioner, or any authority, is given power to determine salaries and promotional opportunities in the Service he is going to have a lot to do with the quality of education that we get in our community. The salaries that the Commissioner is prepared to offer to attract people to the Service will have a lot to do with the quality of people who will man that Service, the kind of promotional opportunities they will have and the kind of professional free dom that will be given to the teachers in that Service. All these matters will be tremendously important to the effective operation of the Teaching Service. Under this Bill the Government proposes to give this authority to one Commissioner with the back-up and veto of the Public Service Board. 
I ask the Government to think seriously about this matter. I think it can do better. It is not good enough to tell us that in the long run teachers have resorted to the conciliation and arbitration body. That comes afterwards. Initiative is very important in this matter and the initiative will be through the Commissioner. Ultimately he will have to have the sanction of the Public Service Board. What will the Public Service Board do when it comes to arbitrating on a matter or helping to determine the salaries and conditions of teachers? Where will the Board turn for some comparable body with which to equate the services of teachers? There is no comparable body. It has been put to us by the teachers' organisations that there is no comparable body within the Commonwealth Public Service with which the pay and conditions of teachers can be equated. I can only come back to saying that I think this is a thoroughly retrograde step. It is a most disappointing feature of the Bill. 
There are certain features of the Bill that I like. I think that it can do a fair bit towards providing a teaching service for a number of authorities which possibly at this stage would not be justified in their own right in having a teaching authority. That statement can be seriously questioned so far as the Australian Capital Territory is concerned. Apart from those remarks I think there is a lot to commend the Bill. However, I think the Government is seeking to put a very serious handicap not only on the efficiency of the Service but on the professional dignity of teachers who will man that Service by retaining Public Service Board control and relying on a single Commissioner. 

 - Mr Chairman, the amendment that the Opposition has moved is in relation to the matter of leave for a female officer in the case of pregnancy. The Bill provides that leave of absence shall be available for a period not exceeding 26 weeks. There are other stipulations including that the leave must commence at least 6 weeks before confinement and not more than 20 weeks before confinement. A further provision is that the leave must finish not earlier than 6 weeks after confinement and not more than 20 weeks after confinement. The Bill provides also that a permanent officer can receive pay while on such leave only if she has accrued leave owing to her on account of sick leave, furlough leave or recreation leave rights. There is no pay directly for being in a condition of pregnancy. One other aspect of the Bill to which we take objection is that temporary employees have no right to any pay even if they have accumulated sick pay entitlements. 
The amendment that we have proposed is in these terms:  (4.) An officer is entitled to receive her normal salary in respect of a period of absence from duty in accordance with this section. 
Our next proposal is:  (S.) Nothing contained in, or done under, this section prevents the grant of leave of absence with pay, on the production of a medical certificate, relating to herself or the child, in support of an extension of leave, to an officer in, respect of a period in excess of the 26 weeks referred to in sub-section (1) of this section. 
Our first proposal is that an officer shall be entitled to payment whilst on leave. Our second point is that in a case where a doctor's certificate is provided the period of paid leave may extend beyond 26 weeks. The third point in our amendment is:  (5a.) A female temporary employee who has become pregnant shall take leave of absence and be entitled to paid maternity leave and such leave benefits &lt;on account of pregnancy as are applicable to a female officer in accordance with this section. 
It is rather interesting to note International Labour Organisation convention No. 103 which deals with the matter of maternity protection. Incidentally, this convention has not been ratified by Australia. It provides that, on production of a medical certificate, an officer is entitled to maternity leave on pay of at least 12 weeks, there being a compulsory period of 6 weeks before confinement and of 6 weeks afterwards. What the Australian Labor Party is proposing is that there be a more generous provision for female officers whether they be temporary or permanent. . 
We have made the point, I think during the second reading debate, that a teacher is in a rather different position from many other office bearers in the Public Service by the nature of her job which is performed in front of a class. Provision ought to be made so that she is not unduly embarrassed by her condition. Furthermore, we feel that there should be no reason to discriminate between a temporary employee and a permanent officer. Accordingly, we do believe that, because of her pregnancy, a teacher ought to be permitted to have this leave which ought to be extended on the production of a medical certificate and that she should be entitled to payment whilst she is on leave. 
I direct the attention of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to clause 35 (10.) (a), which states:  he wilfully disobeyed or disregarded a direction applicable to him as an officer and given by a person having authority to give the direction; 
He shall be regarded as being guilty of misconduct. The question has been raised by teachers and teachers' organisations that there should be inserted the word proper' before 'direction' so that it would read:  he wilfully disobeyed or disregarded a proper direction . . . 
It should not be just any direction. As the clause stands, the direction is simply given by a person having authority to give the direction. It simply relies on his having that authority. There is no question of whether the direction given is a reasonable and proper direction to a teacher. He may be told to do something which is quite unreasonable but as the clause stands he commits a misdemeanour if he disregards that direction. I raise here a point which has been raised by teachers in relation to clause 35 &lt;10.) (b) which states:   . . he was negligent or careless in the  discharge  of his duties. 
One would hope that somewhere or other criteria would be provided to determine what would constitute negligence or carelessness in the discharge of his duties. It is all very well to say that we will rely on the character and personality of the Commissioner and the officers he appoints. I suppose that has been preached over the ages but there have been some terribly intolerant people in positions of authority who have had their own notions on what constitutes an unco-operative subordinate officer or proper co-operation and efficient service. All this has given rise to a good deal of discontent in teaching and other services over the years. So the trend seems to be to have some kind of objective or stated standards so that people know where they are and can measure their behaviour. 
Clause 35&lt;10.)(b) refers to an officer being guilty of any disgraceful or improper conduct, whether as an officer or otherwise. I can only assume that the word otherwise' means his private behaviour as distinct from his professional behaviour. This question has already been raised and the Minister has made some statement about it. It is suggested that there should be some criteria in relation to this provision. If an officer's private behaviour is of such a nature that it is of public notoriety that may be one thing. But if a teacher is misconducting himself in his marriage, need that necessarily be misconduct as a professional officer in the teaching service? If it is not a matter of public notoriety, should it be considered misconduct under this clause? I take it we are dealing only with clauses 34 and 35. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have complaints been made regarding the location of concessions at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) international air terminal; if so, what are the details. 
Is the pharmacy in an obscure location. 
What offices at the terminal are airconditioned. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many persons were registered as (a) unemployed and (b) in receipt of unemployment benefit at Hurstville employment office in (i) January and (ii) February 1972. 
What was the number of (a) unfilled vacancies, (b) average weekly placements and (c) rejected applications for unemployment benefit for each of those months. 
What were the comparable figures for January and February of 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
It is with some reluctance that I speak at this time of night, but as members will recall, 1 have not spoken on the adjournment for more than 2 years. They will know that I do so tonight because of what I regard as a serious matter. It refers to a reply I received from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in his capacity of representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, in response to a question without notice from me on Tuesday, 28th March this year about morale in Qantas Airways Ltd. I asked: 
Is the Minister aware of the widespread and increasing dissatisfaction and sense of insecurity among employees of Qantas Airways Ltd? Is morale among employees at an all-time low? Has this unhappy situation arisen from a heavy and continuing programme of retrenchment, early retirement and downgrading of employment status within the airline's work force. 
That is sufficient of the question for my purposes at the moment. In his reply, the Minister said, among other things: 
My experience of Qantas over the years has been that, despite difficulties at times, the morale of the staff has always been good. 
A little later on, after having told me how Qantas, like other airlines of the world, was having a difficult time, the Minister went on to say: 1 will see that the points which the honourable member has raised are referred to my colleague in another place for his information. But I repeat that I am sure the morale of Qantas today is as high as it has ever been in the past. 
Of course, I would not have asked that question unless I had been assured on pretty strong evidence that the contrary situation was in fact the true one. I have received many messages from constituents who are employed by Qantas expressing grave dissatisfaction with their employment conditions. Furthermore, I have been talking to some of the trade unions that are involved. So, following on the publicity in the daily Press that was given to the Minister's answer about his belief that morale in Qantas was as high as ever, I was sent a letter from employees of Qantas. It is in fact a copy of one sent to the Minister. The Minister will no doubt recall having received this letter: 

 Sir, 

You have been quoted in this morning's Sydney Press as having stated on the floor of the House yesterday that 'Morale among Qantas staff was as high as it had ever been in the past'. 
We, the undersigned, are committee members of the Australasian Transport Officers Association, Qantas City Offices Branch, and have many years of service to our credit with this company. 
Some time has now passed.  Sir, since  you held the Civil Aviation portfolio and perhaps there are some who would excuse your evident lack of first hand contemporary knowledge of the state of morale amongst the remaining employees of Qantas. 
We,  Mr Minister,  do not. Such a rash statement at this time ill becomes a Minister of the Crown and is a complete distortion of the true situation. We state emphatically that morale among the staff of Qantas has never been lower than it is now. 
Not only have many of our fellow employees been retrenched, but others have been compelled to accept substantial cuts in salary and/or relocation in positions inconsistent with their previous training and experience. We should be grateful.  Sir, if  you would enlighten us as to how a $3,000 per annum reduction in salary could be conducive of maintenance of high morale inthe case of a man with 27 years of loyal service to Qantas.  His  is not an isolated case. 
I will not read the rest of the letter. It is available to the Minister. I think that is the most relevant part of it. Subsequent to having sent me that copy of the letter in which they expressed to the Minister grave dissatisfaction and disagreement with his statement, I received another letter and attached to it was a list of signatures from Qantas employees indicating their support for the sentiments expressed in the letter I have just alluded to. The list contains 576 names. 
The very day after the Minister made the statement in the House that morale was as high as ever, 137 more employees of Qantas were dismissed from the airline's employment. We are confronted with the situation that the Minister for Civil Aviation, a responsible Minister, was either ignorant of the facts of the situation in this great Commonwealth instrumentality or he was insensitive to them. Another alternative which, quite frankly, knowing the Minister and having quite a high regard for him, I am not prepared to accept is that he was in fact guilty of knowing the facts and misleading the House. 
I have indicated what the hostile reactions were.  1  think they are understandable when one realises the grave dissatisfaction there has been in Qantas for some time. I have indicated the kind of dissatisfaction expressed in the letter to which the list of signatories is attached. Feelings of grave insecurity and uncertainty persist amongst the employees of Qantas which affect their will to work and their will to serve the public. This is most unfortunate because  1  have a high regard for what has been done by Qantas over the past years. I can understand the feelings of the employees of Qantas when they believe that they are receiving poor reward after years of long service. They pointed out to me that in the last 10 years Qantas has made a profit of $38m. The present financial position of Qantas represents the first break in that continuity of profit. As a matter of fact the loss presently being shown by Qantas is only the fifth loss endured by the company over 51 years of operation. The intensity of the employees' dissatisfaction is all the greater because less than 2 years ago Qantas was making open predictions that by the 1980s staff would reach a total of 29,000. Qantas in fact gave evidence of its own confidence by buying a quantum computer to streamline world-wide reservations connected with the airline's operations. 
These employees of Qantas point out to me that the assets of the airline have a book value of $258m. On the open market they would probably be worth something like $400m. So Qantas is not in the kind of trouble that we are led to believe it is in. It has reserves totalling about $43. 6m. A persistent feeling prevails in Qantas that the employees have been let down by the top management of the airline, and this coincides with what one member on the Government side said here tonight in expressing his own feelings about Qantas. 
This airline, which now says that it is in such a dire situation that it must sack employes left, right and centre, and that it must reduce the status of others by reducing their salaries by as much as $3,000 a year, only last year bought 4 Boeing 747 aircraft for a total value of $ 100.22m, and it has confirmed its intention to spend another $25m to buy a fifth aircraft of this kind. There is a feeling amongst employees of Qantas today that the company is now pre-occupied with how to save money rather than how to make money. Party under pressure from both sides of this House, Qantas has displayed some initiative by entering the charter field and also building up its cargo transport operations. As I say, there is a feeling in the airline also that the company's interests have been sold out by this Government. Allusion has been made particularly to the negotiations last September which resulted in the Government giving to Pan Am and American Airlines extra capacity into Australia. The employees feel that this was done in exchange for Australia gaining increased beef shipments to the United States. They feel that they are the victims of an agreement. In the firm belief of the employees the whole business of sacking and retrenching staff has been unnecessary. They feel that they have been made the scapegoats. They feel that the whole thing has been done with little consultation with the employees. They feel that the whole thing could have been handled ever so much better if the natural wastage had been allowed to occur over the next 5 years. This would have settled any problems of overstaffing. But I come back to the point from which I started. My main grievance tonight is a specific one. it is in relation to the kind of answer that I received from the Minister on the day to which I referred. I have to come back to this alternative: Either the Minister was grossly uninformed of the actual position or, unfortunately, he was misleading this House. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is k a fact that the New South Wales Government has been promoting the establishment of a world trade centre in Sydney? Is such a concept identical with the concept of world trade centres which have been established or which are being constructed in several major overseas countries, that is, to enable Australia to maintain its competitive trade position? Did New South Wales State Ministers confer with 3 Federal Ministers in September last regarding this project in the belief that Commonwealth involvement was vital to its success? Has the New South Wales State Government recently expressed concern that the Commonwealth appears to be indifferent to the project? Will the Government give an early indication of strong support for this vital venture? 
It is a most interesting exercise to sit here to listen to, of all honourable members, the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  parading as the paragon qf electoral virtue. After all, the honourable member for Boothby comes from South Australia and that State is rather notorious for the kind of electoral distribution it had in days gone by. There are not many people who would not recollect the Playford Liberal Government in South Australia that was elected to office with only 36 per cent of the popular vote. People will not forget, of course, the South Australian Upper House which is comprised of 20 representatives. Despite the fact that there is a Labor Government in South Australia under  Mr Dunstan,  in the Upper House 16 out of the 20 seats are held by the Liberals because of the particular kind of voting system that exists for that House. The honourable member for Boothby should forget about lecturing us about gerrymanders and voting systems. When he remedies the situation in his own State we will pay more attention to him. As a matter of fact, the crusty old occupants of the South Australian Upper House were more than the former Premier of South Australia,  Mr Steele  Hall, was able to stomach. I think the history of that is very fresh in our minds. He resigned the leadership of the Liberal Country League in disgust at their attitude. 
Earlier in the evening my colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr 
Daly) uttered some very eloquent words on a matter that affects my electorate as well as his own, namely, the problem of aircraft noise. I do not intend to speak at any length on this topic tonight but I would report to the House that just a couple of weeks ago the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  who represents, a neighbouring electorate, and I, representing the Barton electorate in Sydney, met with representatives of all the- churches in our electorates. These representatives invited us to hear them tell the story of aircraft noise as it affected them and their parishioners. They made out a case to us that the noise was completely intolerable. They talked of such things as the interruption of church services, the interruption of school procedures and the effect that it had on sick people, particularly at night time, and on young children. 
They asked us whether any remedies were available. To the best of our ability we told them what remedial measures had been implemented as the result of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. We had to tell them that these measures were only palliatives and that they could never provide a substantial cure for the problem. We told them quite frankly that it was not possible for us to promise to remedy the mistakes pf the present Government which failed to act 7 or 8 years ago when the important decision should have been made to select the site and start building a second airport outside the inhabited areas of Sydney. That was not done and now it is not possible for any government, be it Liberal or Labor, to catch up on those 7 lost years. So, instead of offering these people relief from this problem we had to indicate to them in all frankness that for the years ahead and until some action is taken to build a second airport the position will get worse, because under the present Government's programme it is intended to make saturated use of Mascot Airport in Sydney. There are rumours - pretty well founded rumours - that there are plans to duplicate the northsouth runway that extends into Botany Bay. So as a result of the Government's dilatoriness the people of the metropolitan area of Sydney and thereabouts will have an intensification of the problem rather than relief from it. Even now, with the Air craft Noise Committee having made its recommendation about the airport sites, the Government deliberately stalls and will not choose the location for Sydney's second airport until after the election. The Government probably presumes, quite rightly, that it will not have to make the decision anyway because there will be a change of government by that time. 
Tonight I want to refer particularly to the state of our Australian railway systems. All the States are making strong complaints to the Commonwealth Government regarding the problem they face in respect of their railway systems, Whether we like it or not the fact is that most Australian people tike to live in the big cities and as a result we are paying the penalty in terms of road and traffic congestion generally. Apart from that, the railways are involved pretty heavily financially. I quote a few figures at this late hour in relation to my own State of New South Wales. During the year ended at 30th June last the New South Wales Department of. Railways earned about $252m. That was a record amount to have earned. However, its expenditure was about $242m, which left an operating surplus of approximately $9m. Unfortunately, on the passenger services it suffered a very considerable loss. The big losses were on the country services rather than the: city services which carried most of the passengers. In the country areas of New South Wales in that financial year there was a loss of $31. lm on passenger traffic. In the suburban areas on the other hand there was a loss of $13.1m. In other words, despite the fact that innumerably more passengers .were carried in the city areas of Sydney most of the total loss occurred in the country areas. 
One of the burdens that the railways in Australia have to carry is the shocking interest burden. In New South Wales last financial year the railways, before paying for anything else, had to meet $38.7m in interest payments to the Commonwealth Government. This was an increase of $3m on the previous year. If one .studies the figures it will be noted that this interest burden is escalating year after year. Even though passengers are required to- pay increased fares, the increased revenue therefrom is being dissipated by the . increased interest burdens that are imposed upon the railway system. Instead of ending up with a profit, the railways in New South Wales last year finished up with a loss of $26.478m. I understand that the position in New South Wales is not unique to that State. Most other States are in a similar critical position. This means, of course, that the railways are unable to carry out the improvements that are desirable in order to attract more traffic and as a result of not being able to attract more traffic most of the people who are deserting the railways are using cars and are travelling on the already choked highways of our cities. 
It is no wonder that on 26th April, just a couple of weeks ago, the New South Wales Minister for Transport called for a Commonwealth take-over of the State's railway system. I understand that this is the attitude of the Victorian Government also. Despite the fact that in both States there are Tory or Liberal-Country Party governments, they are asking the Commonwealth to take over their railway systems.  Mr Morris,  the State Minister for Transport in New South Wales, went on to say that the State Government did not have the money to supply new carriages and other rolling stock which was urgently needed. He said that many country services would have to be eliminated. Many people in country areas already have had advice about the curtailment of railway systems in their areas. 
Let us contrast the treatment that the Commonwealth Government gives to State railway systems with what it gives to other forms of transport in Australia. The Commonwealth in just under 20 years has given road construction authorities by way of grants more than $ 1,840m free of interest. On the other hand, in nearly 50 years Commonwealth assistance for State railways throughout Australia has been only $240m. most of which has been repayable with interest. A while ago I alluded to the interest burden in New South Wales of $38.7m last year. Most of this money that the Commonwealth has provided for railway systems has been for country areas and very little, if any, has been given to urban areas. As I said, one of the problems is the shortage of money, as the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Morris,  said recently. 
Admittedly there are similar problems in many overseas countries which have had to provide subsidies through their federal governments, central governments, state governments and, in some cities, through local governments to support their railway systems. The New South Wales railway system is so short of money that it is prevented from carrying out desirable improvements to its services to attract or even retain passenger patronage. Only a couple of weeks ago  Senator Cotton,  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  told  Senator Mulvihill  that over the last 5 years 'no special grants have been made to the States as an offset to interest on loan funds applied to railway capital works'.  Senator Cotton  added: 
The Commonwealth has, however, agreed to take over $ 1,000m of State debt progressively overthe 5 years 1971-75 and is providing part of the funds approved by the Loan Council each year for State works and housing as grants in lieu of loans, thus eliminating debt charges on the use of these funds. 
He went on to say: 
It is for the State governments to determine what areas of activity should benefit from these concessions. 
It is all very well for the Minister to say that the Commonwealth was taking over some of the debt, but the simple fact is that the debt is great. This applies not only to railways but also to housing, schools and to all sorts of other capital works carried out by State governments. These have amounted to such a great dimension that State railway systems are still left with most of their burden to bear. Because they have this tremendous burden they must find this money each year before they can pay for any other expenses. 
Let us look in very brief form at the Commonwealth's obligation in some other forms of transport. What do we find in the field of civil aviation? Some reference was made earlier to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. That is an example of someone benefiting from Commonwealth expenditure on civil aviation facilities. In 1970-71 Commonwealth expenditure on airports and the like amounted to $56. 5m. What could that amount do for State railway systems? What help would that money be to the overloaded trains that traverse our suburban lines? On the other hand the Commonwealth received in revenue from civil aviation sources $32. 6m. There was still a net grant to civil aviation facilities of almost $24m. In the field of shipping the Commonwealth paid subsidies of ยง19m last year. That would be a very helpful payment to the State railway systems. 
We really come into the big money when we look at the situation in regard to roads. The grant under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act amounted in the same financial year to $2 18m. This is the sort of thing which is helping to build these great concrete strips, these things which we. call expressways, freeways and all the rest of it. The main effect they seem to be having is to induce more people to travel on them, thereby making the situation even more chaotic than it is now. There are also the grants for beef roads. In all the Commonwealth provided $227m for roads last year, whilst it provided so little for our railway systems which could do with huge amounts to alleviate the problems of our already choked cities. In 1970-71 Commonwealth grants for State railways amounted to $3. 85m. Compare that with $227m for roads. The Commonwealth provided a further loan of $3.75m for our State railways, making a total Commonwealth commitment of $7.6m, and most of this money was for the standardisation of railways outside the cities. 
In the brief time available to me in this debate I want to make one point. To establish my point I seek leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard 4 tables setting out the details of Commonwealth ' transport grants and the corresponding revenue received by the Commonwealth from the various forms of transport. These tables have been provided by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Service. I have already mentioned this to the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  who is now at the table. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has there been a reduction in the staff of the China Section of his Department from 5 officers to 2 in the last 2 months. . 
If so, why has this reduction been made when the question of relations with China has become so important. 
Who are the present members of the Section and what are their qualifications and status. 
What new appointments are. intended to be made in the immediate future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare submit its. Report on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons in Australia in May  1971. 
Was the report referred to an interdepartmental committee for consideration. 
If so, (a) when was the report referred, (b) on what dates has the committee met and (c) has the committee completed its considerations. 
If the committee has not completed its considerations, when is it expected to do so. 
When does the Government expect to give legislative effect to the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What objective assessments have been made regarding the effects of noise and other hazards created by the British Concorde supersonic jet aircraft. 
Have British and Australian insurance companies refused to cover policy holders against damage caused by the sonic boom. 
Does the Concorde meet the requirements of American aviation regulations; if not, in what ways does it not comply. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the total work force employed by Qantas at the end of each of the last 5 years. ' 
How many Qantas employees were (a) retrenched, (b) retired ahead of their contracted retirement age and (c) transferred to a position of lower salary status in each month of the last 18 months for which figures are available. 
How many employees in each employment classification were affected by each of the 3 changes referred to in part (2) during the- same period. 
What reductions have been made in (a) the overall and (b) each sectional employment establishment following the airline's reorganisation, during the last 12 months. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the onset of another splurge of price increases for a wide variety of goods in everyday consumption? Do these increases also affect rents, land prices and building costs? Do these increases threaten to erode further the sparse living standards of people on low and relatively fixed incomes? When might the House expect to receive the Government's long promised White Paper on price control? Does the Government have any real plans to combat the threatened renewal of inflationary trends? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many people became unemployed in each of the last five years as a result of automation? 
To what extent is there a tendency in Australia not to employ workers in any particular age group? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What was the (a) number and (b) percentage of the first year student intake in each faculty of Australian universities who were in receipt of Commonwealth University scholarships in each of the last seven years. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What sum has been (a) available and (b) granted for (i) home care services, (ii) senior citizens' centres and (iii) welfare officers at senior citizens' centres under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969 to each of the States and Territories in each year of operation of the Act 
Which State Governments make a matching contribution towards the cost of each of these facilities. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What was the (a) total income, (b) amount of working expenses, (c) operating result and (d) interest payable by the Post Office for each of the years 1946 to 1971 inclusive. 
What would be the estimated changes in revenue of the Post Office for a full year if the following adjustments to telephone charges were implemented: 
increasing the local unit charge to 5 cents; 
incorporating the trunk calls for up to 30 miles in the local call area with the charge per local unit being (i) 4$ cents, (ii) 5 cents, (iii) 51 cents, (iv) 6 cents, (v) 6i cents, (vi) 7 cents; 
charging a uniform amount for any call in Australia of (i) 9 cents (ii) 10 cents, (iii) 11 cents and (iv) 12 cents; 
charging the same rate for 301-400 miles trunk calls as for 201-300 miles and charging calls over 400 miles at the present rate for 301-400 miles with the local call unit being (i) 4) cents, (ii) 5 cents, (iii)  Si  cents, (iv) 6 cents, (v) 6i cents, (vi) 7 cents, (vii) 8 cents and (viii) 10 cents; 
asked the Minister for 
Housing, upon notice: 
What sum has been (a) available and (b) granted under the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969 to each of the States in each year of operation of the Act. 
What was the (a) number and (b) average cost of dwellings constructed in each State in each of those years. 
I can agree with the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in paying tribute to those parents who provide for voluntary pre-school kindergartens, but I do not think I can share his idea of their enthusiasm in having to do so. Most of the people associated with pre-school kindergartens that I know of resent very much that they should be singled out in this way, that they have to make these kinds of sacrifices for their children. They see no reason whatsoever why their children at this tender age should not have the assistance of government in the provision of their schooling, as do all other children. 
There are 2 factors, I think, which have brought this matter of pre-school education very much to the fore at the present time. First of all, there is a greater community awareness and appreciation of the educability of children in these early, tender years. It is not just a case of the intellectual development of the 2-year old, the 3-year old, the 4-year old or the 5-year old; equally important - some would rate it as even more important - is the emotional and social development of young children at this tender age. I suppose this applies particularly to those children in a one-child family - the only child or the first child. But psychologists tell us that it is very important that even subsequent children should have this social and emotional development. This is the area in which pre-school education has been recognised to play a tremendously important part. Let us recognise that factor. 
We in this country have been rather backward in acknowledging the educability of children in these early years. It is not so many years ago, most of us will probably remember, that we used to sneer at what was done in countries such as Russia and certain European countries which put young children into pre-schools. This was supposed to be State indoctrination in the early, tender years of a child's life. We have come to recognise that this attitude is idiotic and that in fact there is much to gain by young children having educational opportunities from about the age of 3 onwards. 
The second factor that makes pre-school education so important, of course, is the greater tendency on the part of women to go into the work force. Many of them do so by choice; but many others, unfortunately, are forced to do so by sheer economic necessity. This accounts for the greater demand for pre-school education. A recent survey of applications for child care conducted by the Sydney Day Nursery Schools Association showed that 40 per cent of all applications were from oneparent families - usually a divorced mother, a widowed mother or a deserted wife - in which the mother had to work to support herself and the children, and that 47 per cent of 2-parent applications were from families in economic difficulties because of high rents, hire purchase debts or debts arising from illness or accident necessitating hospital and/or medical care. 
Another survey that is very relevant to this question was conducted by a subcommittee of the Industry Standing Committee of the New South Wales Association for Mental Health. This survey was carried out in 1971 and it was stated, inter alia: 
Our own surveys revealed that 67 per cent of professional women would prefer part time work. 
I am presuming that these were mothers of pre-school age children. So, 67 per cent of professional women would have preferred part time work, 10 per cent would have preferred full time work and 23 per cent would have preferred not to have to work at all. The corresponding figures for nonprofessional women were as follows: 54 per cent preferred part time work, only 5 per cent desired full time work and 41 per cent preferred not to have to work at all. While we acknowledge that there is a number of women who would like to go to work and while there are many others who perforce have to go to work for economic reasons, there is a very strong demand for part time work opportunities. I hope that one of the developments that will occur in industry and commerce in the very near future will be the far greater availability of part time work opportunities for mothers of young children. 
It is all very well to quote large statistics on how much money the Government is providing for this, that and the other. We heard the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  doing that very thing this afternoon. Telling how much money the Government intends to spend is only part of the story. The important point is to relate that expenditure to the known needs in the community. Never do we hear the Minister or a Government supporter saying: 'We are spending so much, but the needs were so much; therefore this year we will have a deficit of so much'. These days there are lots of statistics in relation to the need for pre-school education. A survey conducted in 1970  -  of course, the figures have escalated since then - showed that the number of children in our Australian community between the ages of 3 and 5 was 699,000, of whom 203,000 were enrolled in schools, usually at the age of 5 years, and 74,000 were enrolled in pre-schools. The very important point I want to highlight is that, in round figures, 200,000 children of working mothers were unable to get into schools or pre-schools. Many other mothers of young children said that if they could get a place for their child in a preschool or child care centre they would like to go into employment. 
There is a great diversity of need in our States. The State worst off in terms of preschool education is, unfortunately, New South Wales, where the need is greatest in terms of sheer numbers. In New South Wales only 3 per cent of pre-school age children are in affiliated pre-schools. If all kinds of child care centres, many of which are unregistered, are taken into consideration, only 6 per cent of pre-school age children in New South Wales have the opportunity to go to a kindergarten or some other kind of pre-school facility. By contrast, 95 per cent of children of that age in the Australian Capital Territory have that opportunity. What the Australian Labor Party is urging in its amendment is that all children in Australia should have the same privilege, if I may put it that way, as that enjoyed by the parents and their children who reside in the Australian Capital Territory, In New South Wales the Government pays only $935 a year towards a kindergarten teacher's salary, but in the Australian Capital Territory and in some other States the full cost is borne by the government. In most affiliated preschool kindergartens in New South Wales the charge is $1.20 per morning. Sometimes it costs up to $12 or $14 a week for a parent to place a child in a pre-school kindergarten. But in the Australian Capital Territory. I understand, the charge is 20c per morning. 
I have talked about the necessity for providing pre-school kindergarten facilities, but there are a good many people who urge that we ought to consider making some grant or payment to mothers of very young children,, particularly those below the age of 3 years, not to enable mothers to send their children to some child care centre but to enable them to stay at home and mind their children. I think there is a lot to be said for that. It is very important that the young child should be cared for by his mother from birth to about 3. years of age. I think a darn good case can be made out for making this possible by allowing the mother to stay at home with the child. As I said before, I think these early mothering moments, if I may put it that way, when emotional ties are established and when the early development of the child in its social setting in relation to the family is taking place, are very important indeed. 
Australia, the affluent country that it is, should be able to relieve many mothers of the necessity to go to work and enable them to stay at home to care for their children* They should not be debarred the opportunity, if they desire it, of subsequently sending their children for pre school education, for the reasons which I outlined at the beginning of my speech. Of course, I have talked in coarse figures and generalised figures about the need for preschool education in Australia. Admittedly, voluntary efforts and sacrifices are being made in many places. But they are being made in those communities which, even if it is difficult, can afford to provide this kind of facility for pre-school education. 
We must think of the young children born into families of great economic and social deprivation. For the last 15 months this Government has had before it the report of a Senate inquiry into the welfare of mentally and physically handicapped children. It is a standing disgrace that 15 months after that report was tabled nothing has been done about these children. If it is necessary for the ordinary, normal child to have pre-school education opportunities I say categorically that it is even more urgent and demanding that intellectually and physically handicapped children should have that opportunity, not only for the sake of the children but also for the mental health of their unfortunate parents. Another group that badly needs provision and which cannot afford it consists of migrants during their early period in this country. A report that was recently published stated: 
A current ACER- 
That is, the Australian Council of Educational Research - survey of the pre-school experience of children in Melbourne entering primary school reveals some striking differences among ethnic groups. Only 26 per cent of children  in  non-English speaking families had been to kindergarten. By comparison, 49 per cent of children of English speaking migrants and 70 per cent of Australian children had enjoyed some pre-school experience. 
The point made in this statement is that while it is very desirable for our normal Australian children to have pre-school education it is all the more desirable so for children of families where English is not normally spoken. If they do not get this opportunity when they come into our community, they will be further behind in their rise up the educational ladder. 
I spoke a moment ago about the importance of a mother staying at home where necessary. We can call on the experience of European countries which have made provision for this. It is not a novel idea. In 
Hungary, for instance, for the first 3 years of a baby's life a mother is paid to stay at home if she wishes to look after her child. In Austria a mother is paid to look after her child for the first year after its birth. It is interesting to note what other countries are doing. The United States of America has a great programme, called the 'head start' programme, which was introduced under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964. This is a comprehensive, early childhood education programme for disadvantaged pre-school children and their families. It includes not only the provision of educational facilities but also other such important services as health, nutrition and parent involvement, as well as the educational component that I referred to a while ago. It is a comprehensive programme to look after children and their families in deprived areas. The funds for this scheme are provided by the United States Federal Government. It is a good example for us to follow. The Federal Government provides up to 80 per cent of the total funds for the programme. The average assistance as at October 1970 was $1,050 per child in a full year. When we start providing that kind of help for disadvantaged pre-school aged children in Australia we will have a social revolution. America provides $1,050 per child in each full year. What does this Bill provide? It provides for $2.5m to be spent for the whole of Australia over a period of 3 years and even its implementation has been delayed. Since 1964 in the United States, more than 3.5 million preschool children have had the opportunity of education simply because of that 'head start' programme. 
There are many other matters about which I should like to have spoken. It never ceases to amaze me why we in Australia have gone for so long without government accepting the responsibility of pre-school education and education for our handicapped children. It is always a matter of great concern to me to see on the streets of a Saturday morning, parents running chocolate wheels, selling lucky numbers or using some other device to raise tremendous amounts of money to provide for the education of their pre-school children or handicapped children. I think it is a standing social disgrace to this affluent country that this occurs and I only hope - to be quite political about it - that a new government will soon get the opportunity to bring about these desirable reforms. 
Does the Prime Minister recall my asking him a question near the end of the last sessional period regarding a promise he made earlier in the year to have prepared a White Paper on prices control? Did he promise to bring the question to the notice of the Treasurer? Is he aware that the people are now very concerned that such concessions as are contained in the Budget could be whittled away in a matter of months by the further inflation which the Budget Speech anticipates? Can the Prime Minister now say when the White Paper can be expected and when the Government is likely to adopt the Labor Party's proposal for a prices justification tribunal? 
Naturally enough the Australian Labor Party would be quite prepared, as it has already indicated, to support those beneficial measures contained in the Budget in respect of social service recipients. To do otherwise would be to deny all the representations that I and many of my colleagues have made over many years. I would not like to suggest that the measures that are contained in this Budget meet anything tike the requirements of the Labor Party. However, during the debates on the particular measures we will indicate our misgivings in that respect. I have to remind the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  that despite what he has outlined as a wonderful social welfare programme, the simple fact as contained in the Budget papers themselves indicate that this year we will be spending an only slightly higher proportion of our total domestic outlay on social welfare compared with expenditure in the 2 previous years. Cash benefits to persons in 1970-71 were 23.1 per cent of our total domestic outlay; in 1971-72 they were 23 per cent of the total domestic outlay; and in 1972-73 expenditure will be up to only 23.9 per cent. There has been an increase, but it is less than 1 per cent. 
The Minister laid heavy emphasis on the abolition of the means test. I have to recollect that my illustrious predecessor in the constituency of Barton, which I represent, the right honourable  Dr Evatt,  promised back in 1954 to abolish the means test completely within 3 years. Unfortunately,  Dr Evatt  and the Labor Party missed out on being elected to the government of this country by a matter of about 600 votes over the whole of Australia. That is to say that if we had been fortunate enough to have been elected on that occasion, the means test would have been abolished 15 years ago. Now the Government is trying to take credit for having promised to be rid of it before 1975. Of course, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has already indicated that the Labor Party has given a solemn undertaking that it will abolish the means test within that time. That will be consistent with our promise in 1969, when we said that we would abolish the means test within 6 years. At that time, of course, as was the case in 1954, the present Minister for Social Services, along with many of his colleagues, completely rubbished the idea. They branded it as financial irresponsibility. So, many people have been denied the abolition of the means test for all those years because of the Government's reluctance. 
This Budget is one of short term political expediency. It is a Budget of desperation. I refer honourable members to a headline in the 'Australian' to an article written by Kenneth Davidson, the economics writer for the 'Australian'. This article appeared on 16th August and was headed: 
Snedden lights slow fuse. Bonanza can only bring savage curbs next year. 
He went on to quote his evidence for saying that there is likely to be such a cutback if the Government is returned. We have seen this before. Benefits are given on the eve of an election and, immediately after the Government is re-elected, it is followed by savage increases in both direct and indirect taxation. As his evidence to support this headline,  Mr Davidson  wrote: 
Statement number three of the Budget papers, which discusses monetary policy, has dropped  a  fairly broad bint that this injection will have to be countered next year by a strong reversal in monetary policy. 
In other words, he forecast that, without the Government's interference, there is going to be another spurt of inflation and a further increase in prices and many of the goodies that are contained in this Budget will lose value overnight. 
What kind of development is the Budget aiming at? This is indicated in Statement 1 attached to the Budget papers. It states: 
As well as relieving the tax burden the aim is to stimulate private sector activity without at the same time adding unduly to the rate of growth in public sector expenditure. 
What does this mean? We can only look at the Budget itself. It means that there is going to be any kind of stimulation for the private sector of the economy but practically nothing for the public sector of the economy. In the Government's view private sector activity is preferable to the building of schools and hospitals, for the carrying out of sewerage and water reticulation works that are so urgently necessary in so many of our urban areas, to the relief of choked up public transport systems and the building of housing by State and Commonwealth instrumentalities. All these things will go by the board in order that this Budget can give hand outs that the Government thinks might win enough votes to enable it to stay in office after 23 years. So, what we are asked to accept is that instead of having all those things that I have just mentioned - all those great public utilities for which the community cries out - it is preferable in order to increase employment to concentrate on more takeaway food shops, more pizza bars, more petrol stations and that sort of thing. This is not the sort of thing that builds a nation. In previous Budgets, even under this Government, we have had enumerated to us, especially on election eve, great national projects, great road building works, great highway systems, railway works and the like. None of that is contained in this Budget; it is terribly deficient. As a matter of fact, this Budget is more notable for what it does not contain than for what it does contain. 
One of the things that is very obvious - this was not raised by the Labor Party - was pointed to in a recent survey of Austraiian businessmen which was recorded in the 'National Times' survey on 7th August. 
This survey was conducted by objective businessmen. In fact, it was conducted by W. D. Scott and Co. The poll states: 
The poll showed a sweeping affirmation for increased national planning. Ninety-five per cent of businessmen surveyed were in favour that Australia, as a nation, should have specific growth objectives for, say, the next 5 to 10 years. 
Do honourable members see any reference to any long term planning or any national objectives? Is there an example of the Government getting together with business and with the employed classes in the community and working out some kind of objectives? No wonder we have these stopgostop Budgets. We do not have national goals. Most other countries around the world - even governments of this kidney - have national planning objectives, but not so Australia. The businessmen reminded the survey that businessmen in increasing numbers are engaged in medium term and long term planning with specific growth objectives. Many a businessman has said to me: How do you think I would get on trying to plan my output over the next 3 or 4 or 5 years if I did not have some kind of systematic plan about it? I would go broke.' But not so the greatest enterprise in this nation - the Commonwealth Government. It is completely devoid of forward planning. In some sectors, notably in tertiary education and a few other spheres, we do have our 3-year plans, short enough as they are. But at least they are forward plans. Why do we not have a national economic policy for Australia? 
Professor Ronald Henderson recently described the kind of  government  we have as instant  government'.  He  said: 
We suffer from too much 'instant government'. Measures are taken to deal with an urgent problem in one part of a sector without due consideration of their effect as a whole. Often, indeed, it is difficult to discover any coherent strategy for the whole, so conflicting are the individual acts of government. 
Professor Henderson instanced as an example the hotch-potch of measures that the Government has taken in regard to the inflow of foreign capital into this country. There has been a fog  of  uncertainty as to just what is the Government's policy on foreign investment. At times  it  seems to encourage foreign investment - most of the time it has done so - without any regard to what effect it has on  Australia's  equity and its own nationhood. At other times,  the 
Government has arbitrarily intervened against foreign takeovers, as we will recall, with MLC and Queensland Mines Ltd. 
Much the same kind of incoherence involves such things as our mining policy, our urban policy, the development of our cities, to which my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  referred a while ago, the capital market in this country, inflation, unemployment and transport. We seem to be devoid of any coherent overall national policy on any of these national issues and so we get into the kind of trouble that we are now in. Professor Henderson went on to suggest - the Government might take this up - that we need procedures to evolve a coherent national economic policy. He suggested that these procedures should involve politicians, businessmen, professional men, public servants and academics. This is not new, as I said. It is being done in most advanced countries: but somehow we lag behind. We have far too little in the way of economic and social research in this country. Canada employed 100 professional men - lawyers, academics, economists and so on - to work out a taxation policy. I wonder whether we will be as ambitious as that when we get down to the job of trying to sort out our taxation policy, let alone trying to arrive at some kind of coherent national economic and social policy, lt is this kind of cooperation that is needed and it is this kind of co-operation that the Labor Party is espousing, not some bureaucratic structure. We advocate a structure of co-operation with all people who are involved in the development of the economy. Professor Henderson went on to suggest that there were 3 aspects to this process. He described them as inquiry, research and discussion. I quote him further: 
First a commission must inquire into what is already known by various informed people; then this must be put together, and often it will reveal yawning gaps that must be filled by research. Finally the material must be analysed and discussed. 
As he said, there is an obvious need for a much greater amount of economic and social research in Australia. 
As I said at the outset, this Budget is devoid of many important policy points. I defy anybody to find in this Budget any reference to what is to be done about price inflation over the months ahead. There is no suggestion of it. The Budget is stunningly silent with regard to the threat of inflation and what can happen to even the goodies which are contained in it. Over the 2 years ended in June of this year we have seen inflation running at the rate of 6 per cent a year. The consumer price index figures for my own city of Sydney show that there it was raging at 6.7 per cent. In the year before it was 5.3 per cent. So the position is worsening. AH the unemployment and business stagnation that has occurred over the last 12 months has been pretty much in vain. The reduction in the price spiral has been infinitesimal. 
Among the items most worrying to the people I represent and those whom most other honourable members represent is the rising cost of houses. The cost of houses increased in the June quarter of this year at the rate of 9.6 per cent a year. That is a tremendous increase. Land prices are an absolute scandal. On average, land prices have trebled in the last 10 years. Average municipal and water board rates, as registered by the Commonwealth Statistician - not on somebody's say-so but by objective measurement - have increased at the enormously high rate of 16.4 per cent per annum. This is getting out of hand. I instance also transport costs and fares, and the cost of running a car. All these things are eating into people's savings and into their earnings. No wonder we have industrial confrontation in our community. No wonder the voice of protest has to be raised so often. So we could go on. 
In this Budget there is no reference concerning what is to be done about the price increases and inflation. The Budget assumes that prices will increase at a rate of at least 5 per cent a year. What will happen to the sprinkling of goodies which are contained in this Budget? I asked a question about the paper the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  promised would be ready early in the year concerning an historical account of the prices and income policies around the world. Here in August there is no sign of the paper. He said: 'The Treasury is pretty busy; we have not got it to hand'. This signifies the priority the Government gives to price stabilisation. Another unhappy feature of the Budget is the fact that we still have 100,000 people unemployed hi Australia. When wives and dependent children are added to this figure, one can say that there would be a minimum of 250,000 people either unemployed or dependent on unemployed persons. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who preceded me in this debate, had a lot to say about social welfare programmes, but he did not say what was being done in the Budget about the unemployment benefit. It is not being increased one iota. The people who have had to accept the consequences of the Government's economic policy over the last 12 months have received nothing from the Budget. An unemployed man, with a wife and 2 children, receives $38 a week to live on - $14  a  week below the poverty line. The Government expects inflation to go on and it assumes that unemployment will continue  at a  substantial rate during the year. If it anticipates that, the chances are that this trend will be even greater. 
What are the prospects of school leavers for the next few months? I can imagine the debate that went on in the Cabinet room yesterday about how soon the election should be held. The Prime Minister must be worried about what will happen when all these youngsters leave school - many of whom went back to repeat 6th form simply because they could not get a job last year. I am told that it is expected that by the end of this year, or by February next. 215,000 school leavers - school leavers are classified by the Statistician as not only those who leave high school but also those who leave universities, teachers colleges and similar institutions - will be looking for jobs. 
We still have a continuing immigration programme. AH these things must aggravate the situation. Not only has there been a tremendous sacrifice by those who have been unemployed, but the effect has spread through to the rest of the economy. It is estimated that in the last 12 months unemployment has cost no less than $800m in lost production. We have all heard businessmen complain bitterly at how sluggish business has been. This is the tremendous cost of the Government's misguided policy of 12 months ago. Why should the people of Australia have faith in it for another 3 years? Any business which made the miscalculation that the Government made 12 months ago would have gone on the rocks. This is the position we are in. 
I do not have time to go in any detail into taxation as referred to in the Budget. The Government made great-to-do about the reduction in taxation. The simple fact is that this year income tax revenue will be $439m more than it was last year while the total tax receipts including direct and indirect taxes, will be $556m more than they were last year. From 1962 to 1963 pay-as-you-earn income tax has had an average rate of growth of 17.4 per cent annually. These figures are in the Budget Papers. This colossal escalation of taxation has been going on year in and year out under this Government, yet the Government is trying to make a virtue out of giving some tax concession in this Budget. What will it mean to the average family? It will mean about $2 a week to people in the $4,000 to $5,000 income group. Imagine being given that in an industrial award. It would be thrown back in the courts' face. With no tie on prices and no tie on escalation into higher income brackets through the inflationary process I have referred to, wages will have a rise to meet increasing prices and people will still be escalated into a higher tax bracket. 
There are no proposals concerning indirect taxation - sales tax and so on. The simple fact is that many people will find themselves a lot worse off should this Government be returned to office and its economic policies sustained. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  this afternoon was quite elated that there was a provision in this Budget for child care centres. The provision is $5m for the whole of Australia. How many children will that look after? The fact is that mothers who go to work have been most anxious and demanding that they should be allowed the cost of accommodating their children in child care centres, $8, $10 or $12 a week - as a taxation deduction. But that is not so in this Budget. I strongly support the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. I look forward to the advent of a Labor government, with new policies and a refreshing approach to Australia's economic and social problems. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice:  
What sum has been  (a)  available and (b) granted under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969  to  each of the States in each year  of  operation  of  the Act. 
How many (a) nursing homes have been constructed and (b) beds have been made available in each State in each of those years. 
What is the location of each nursing home that (a) has been constructed or (b) is under construction. 
I would like to refer to a few items in this debate on the estimates for the Department of the Treasury. One of the more notable changing characteristics of our cities in Australia in recent times has been the growth of home unit construction. As honourable members may know, many of these home units are organised into what are called corporate bodies. They are registered in New South Wales under the Conveyancing (Strata Titles) Act. One of the things that disturbs these corporate bodies is the necessity to submit income tax returns each year. These corporate bodies hold small amounts of money for the maintenance of the combination of units which are formed into the corporate body. Most of the funds that they raise are in due course paid out in maintenance costs. They are non-profit making bodies. Their intention is not to accumulate funds for great investment, but whilst they are holding funds to meet any anticipated expenditures the funds are invested in bank accounts, credit unions or some such bodies and accordingly they earn a certain amount of income. The amount of income that they earn in a year is small and therefore it becomes irksome for the secretaries of these corporate bodies who look after their affairs to be obliged to send in income tax returns for these small amounts of income. 
One such organisation, the St George and Districts Home Unit Owners Association, has written to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and to me in recent times asking that it be exempt from having to render such returns. As a matter of fact, many of these corporate bodies fail to put in a return, in many cases in ignorance of the fact that they have such an obligation. It is suggested that they ought to have something comparable with the exemption level that is accorded to personal income tax payments. The Budget provides for an exemption level on incomes of up to $1,040. It would probably be appropriate that organisations such as these corporate bodies, and other small associations which hold funds only to offset anticipated expenses, should be exempted from the necessity to render income tax returns. I understand that in New South Wales alone there are over 6,000 of these corporate bodies. 
It is suggested that the expenses involved in requiring these organisations to render returns, in the processing of such returns and in the making of an assessment more than outweigh the income that is likely to be received by way of taxation on such bodies. Therefore I make an appeal to the Government to give further consideration, as was promised in the Treasurer's letter to me and to the Association, to the exemption of bodies in this way. I must confess that I do not have much knowledge of company taxation. I do not know how easy it would be to make such a provision. I imagine that there would be no great difficulty in making a provision for an exemption level which would obviate the necessity of small organisations holding small amounts of money on investment making such returns. 
Various people have made complaints to me about the failure of the Taxation Office to answer letters of inquiry that they have sent to it. I have to thank warmly the people I have dealt with at the Taxation Office for the consideration they have given to me as a parliamentarian making inquiries on behalf of constituents. Unfortunately, it appears that the chances of the ordinary rank and file citizen who writes to our Taxation Office of receiving a written reply are rather slight. I have known of constituents who have written several letters without receiving a reply. I have mentioned this matter to some of the senior officers in the Taxation Office and they have told me that at particular times of the year they are absolutely overwhelmed with inquiries and that it is just impossible to cope. It seems to me that there ought to be some possibilities of taking on increased staff at those times of the year. I imagine that these kinds of inquiries cannot be handled by some casual employee who is brought in, and this probably entails some difficulties. But I hope that it is possible for the Taxation Office to provide a service for people who send in this kind of written inquiry. Admittedly, this office advertises widely that it takes telephone inquiries even after business hours. It has tried to reach out. I know what it does in country areas by making advisory services available to the people. However, having said all that, there is this considerable incidence of people who write to the Taxation Office and do not get a reply even after making repeated written inquiries to it. 
I know that already, during the general Budget debate, there has been a lot of discussion about the taxation provisions it contained. At this late hour I would not weary honourable members by going through them again. However I would like to mention a couple of items. One is the old perennial of fares to and from work being allowed as a taxation deduction. The fact that this matter has been brought up many times in the past does not lessen the significance of it even now. In fact in many ways it has taken on new significance because of the growth of many of our cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. Many young people, many young married couples and people in the low income group-the 2 I have mentioned, the newly married couples and the low income group, are often coincident - have to live considerable distances from their places of employment. It is nothing abnormal for young people and people on low incomes in the great metropolitan area of Sydney to have to travel 20, 30, SO miles a day to and from work. This means that they are up for a considerable sum for fares. Nobody in this house, I am sure, needs to be told how fares have escalated in recent years. This reduces the net income which is available to low income workers, to people who, perforce of the high cost of land in the inner city areas, the high cost of housing and the high cost of rentals, have to live some distance out of the city and away from their work. 
True it is that many industries are decentralising, lt would be a good thing if more did so. Possibly we should be doing more by way of taxation inducement to encourage decentralisation. Taking the position as it is, many people lose a lot of their gross income by reason of the fares that they have to pay to get to and from work. Therefore 1 put this matter up again for consideration. It has been put up quite eloquently in the past. The Government should consider doing something to provide relief to people who have to travel some distance. In fact it would be an inducement to decentralisation because, failing the provision of such a concession, people will strive to live closer to work and therefore this will force up the cost of housing and the demand for areas closer to cities. 
On the other hand we have the growing incidence of employers providing certain staff with what are called fringe benefits such as company or business cars which they can use not only for business but in many cases also for their private purposes. The department has become more aware of this. This provision seems to create some sort of inequity as between one class of employer and another. Some companies go as far as providing the petrol for the car and for its maintenance even thought it is used not only for getting to and from work but for the employee's private use. Therefore I think that in all equity there ought to be provision for people who pay substantial fares to and from work to claim this expense as a tax deduction. One of the other old perennials  -  I can mention it only briefly now - is the proposition that reasonable claims for ambulance fees and subscriptions to such organisations ought to be allowed as taxation deductions. I personally cannot see the logic for excluding ambulance services from the general claims that can be made for medical services. It just seems to have no logic whatsoever. Finally, I state for all those people who still talk about great taxation deductions that this year taxpayers will pay an extra $556m in taxation as compared with last year. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What were the (a) total fixed assets, (b) Government loan capital, (c) reserves, (d) total revenue, 
expenditure and (f) net profit of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission in each year since 1946. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister or such Minister as he deputes to answer it; it involves 3 or 4 different Ministers. Was the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in respect of mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia tabled in Parliament 15 months ago - in May of last year? Was it subsequently referred by the Government to an interdepartmental committee for consideration just 12 months ago - in September of last year? Did this report recommend a variety of educational, health and welfare measures for the benefit of the handicapped and their families? Has the Government pigeonholed this 15-months-old report, or might action be expected in the immediate future to give relief to these long-suffering citizens? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Does Qantas propose to sell any aircraft in the immediate future; if so, what are the details. 
Is there any proposal that Qantas should cease operations across the Atlantic by October 1972 or soon afterwards. 
Has Qantas a 5-year plan for its future development. 
How many, voluntary retirements have there been from the Qantas staff during the last 18 months. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What were the net profits of the (a) Commonwealth Banking Corporation, (b) Commonwealth Trading Bank, (c) Commonwealth Savings Bank and (d) Commonwealth Development Bank in each year since 1960. 
How much of each of these profits was paid to the Government. 
 I join with all other honourable members in this House in expressing a very warm welcome to our distinguished visitors from Japan. If the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  was confused about the treatment of superannuation in the new means test, he can imagine what confusion it will cause to the many elderly people in the community who have to make application for pensions. Apart from these further contributions to confusion, great confusion already exists in our social service laws. I think that lends significance to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  which states: 
While not opposing the Bill, the House is of opinion that the only satisfactory way to provide social services benefits is through  a  comprehensive national system of social security where benefits are above the poverty level and tied to an index adjusted at least annually. 
We have a proposal before the Parliament at present for a poverty survey. I remember interjecting - I suppose I was out of order - at the time the announcement was made: 'What a commentary. What a trenchant commentary this is on 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government that we should be organising a national poverty survey in an affluent country such as Australia*. In my view and in the view of my colleagues, the poverty survey is not wide enough to encompass the sort of thing to which this Bill refers. It is not wide enough to meet the wishes of the Council for Social Welfare which has ardently sought a comprehensive survey into social services. 
I hope that the few words I have to say this afternoon will give a further indication of the lack of comprehensiveness and co-ordination that exists within our social services law.% One of the principal items mentioned in the Bill is the proposal to abolish the means test and the measures that are being taken in the Bill to that effect. In my view, the Government is entitled to take credit for the measure. I, along with other honourable members from this side of the House, have been calling for this for as long as we have been in Parliament. I am reminded that it was my distinguished predecessor in the electorate of Barton, the late  Dr Evatt,  who in 1954 made an appeal to the Australian public for support to abolish the means test within 3 years. On that occasion  Dr Evatt  and the Labor Party were very nearly successful. Just a matter of a few votes in a few different electorates made all the difference between implementation of his promise and this long delay. Many people in retirement will now have cause for regret because the means test could have been abolished by 1957. It would have been abolished 15 years ago if the Labor Party had received just a little extra support back in 1954. The Government now proposes the abolition of the means test within 3 years. This coincides with the promise made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam). 
If you are to go into that, the Leader of the Opposidid say 3 years ago that we would abolish it within 6 years; so this is consistent with the proposal on that occasion. If you are going to quote any changes in plans then you will have to recognise the vast change in the attitude which has been adopted by this Government. I remember the Prime Minister, once removed, having said that he was ardently opposed to abolition of the means test and that a lot more attention should be given to those people on the lower rungs of social welfare. 
That was the view of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  If we are going to talk about a change in attitude, let us be consistent. 
I am reminded by the honourable member for Fremantle that when  Sir Robert  Menzies was the Prime Minister he made this promise in 1949. When he came into office he said he would introduce a national superannuation scheme within, I think, the first 3 years of office. It seems to me to be rather ironic that here we  aTe  now about to abolish the means test, 23 years after this Government came into office, just on the eve of its departure from office. Even now the proposals made in connection with the means test exclude very important sections of our people. The proposals will not provide for invalid pensioners. Presumably the means test with all its provisions will still be imposed upon invalids, upon class A and class B widows and on service pensioners who are entitled to a pension at 60 years of age. Presumably service pensioners will not be exempt from the application of the means test until they reach the age of 65 despite the fact that they get a pension at 60 years of age because their assumed life expectation is 5 years shorter on an average than it would have been if they had not been in war service. Then there are all the female age pensioners between the ages of 60 and 65. There is a very large group of them. They also will be excluded from the Government's proposal to abolish the means test. 
One other significant factor connected with the alleviation of the means test and the Government's proposal is that there will be no relaxation in respect of the various concessions. Most honourable members who have to deal with people in retirement know that the pensioner medical service and all the other concessions that are associated with it are very much prized by people in retirement. If there is one thing that worries elderly people more than any other it is the worry of the insecurity caused by possible long term sickness and all its attendant medical costs. For that reason I have seen pensioners prepared to spend quite a lot of money, inadvisedly in my own view, in order to get within the provisions of the means test as it applies to the pensioner medical service. It has always seemed to me to be a very harsh kind of means test. It means that any single pensioner who is in receipt of $30 a week or more in means as assessed will miss out on all the concessions. A difference of 10c can mean that a pensioner is eligible for the pensioner medical service, transport concessions, municipal rate concessions - I am talking about New South Wales now, the State which I know best - water rate concessions, telephone rental concessions and the radiotelevision licence concession. All those concessions are available to a person whose means as assessed in the case of a single person are $29.90 a week. But a person on $30 a week - just 10c more - receives none of these concessions. That seems an awfully painful and arbitrary decision to make. Likewise it applies in the case of married persons whose means as assessed are $51.50 a week; they lose the lot. But a married couple in receipt of just 10c a week less get all those benefits. This seems to be a grave injustice, in my view. 
The proposals relating to superannuation, which I mentioned in my earlier remarks, will be of some use presumably to people on superannuation. I quite frankly have not had time to study it. All I can say is that having had a glance at it it seems to be a very complex measure and if it will be necessary for the Minister for the Navy to refer to a ready reckoner I imagine that most elderly people will need to do more than that in order to judge their eligibility for pensions. 
The annual adjustment for the capitalisation of superannuation and annuity payments seems to me to be a complex measure which will only further add to the confusion that exists in the implementation of the means test. I notice that it is not expected to last more than 3 years for those people for whom the means test will be abolished, but presumably all those classes of people to whom I referred a while ago and who will not come within the purview of the abolished means test will have to carry on with all its complexities. That is one other disability that they will have. 
I welcome the Government's measure to extend the pension to the wife of an age or invalid pensioner where the wife herself is not ordinarily eligible for an age or invalid pension. This is something which all of us have pressed for over a number of years. I am glad to see that it has been included in this measure. .Unfortunately there is no provision in this. Bill to establish a stable relationship between pensions and an index of community welfare. The Labor Party, in line with pensioner organisations, supports the view that pensions ought to be tied in a fixed relationship with average weekly earnings in the community. It has been said in the past that they ought to be related to some consumer price index. We think, and so do the pensioners, that it would be better to have pensions related to average weekly earnings because wa feel that this would be a better index of community prosperity. Senior citizens or pensioners ought to be entitled to share in such prosperity as exists in the community. The Labor Party's solemn pledge is that we will at the outset fix pensions at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings in the community. We will get to that point as soon as it is physically possible to do so and then the pensioners will have some kind of security. This has been done in at least 14 other countries so far as I have been able to ascertain. Countries which have this fixed relationship between pensions and some other index of community prosperity or price costs include Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Uraguay. It ill behoves the Government to rubbish the idea that pensions should have a fixed relationship to some index on the lines which I have suggested. 
I make an appeal on behalf of not a lot of people, although there are 43,000 of them and that is a fair number. I appeal to this Government to do something about pensions for class B widows. It seems to me to be totally illogical that we should ask a class B widow to live on $2.75 a week less than she would get if she were 60 years of age. A class B widow is, as honourable members know, a widow between the age of 50 and 59. She gets only the same rate as a married age or invalid pensioner, which is $17.25 a week, but when she turns 60 years of age - possibly her requirements will be less - she will get $2.75 a week more. Another appeal which has been made by widow pensioner associations to various members including myself is for an educational allowance for the children of a class A widow. A class A widow is a widow who has dependent children of school age. These organisations think that a class A widow is just as entitled to an educational allowance for their dependent children as are war widows. We are still lagging behind in the implementation of the promise to introduce portability of pensions. The Minister has said that he is making inquiries and investigations and is conducting negotiations. Long before this the Labor Party would have done something. As I understand it, the Labor Party has promised quite firmly, without waiting for agreements, to make it possible for all citizens who are eligible for pensions in Austrafia to take those pensions abroad to places at which they intend to retire. 
Many necessary improvements are not included in the Bill. Time will not permit me to refer to all of them. For example the Bill contains no provision to increase the allowance for dependent children of widow, age  ot  invalid pensioners. No provision is made to increase the guardian allowance or the allowance to mothers, dependent children of class A widows or long term sickness beneficiaries other than  the adult himself.  His  spouse remains on $8 a week. In other words, a long term sickness beneficiary couple are expected to live on $28 a week. I cannot for the life of me understand why the Government was not consistent in this matter. It should have extended to the wife of a long term sickness beneficiary the same benefit as obtains for age and invalid pensioners. Why not give to each of them the married rate pension? I hope that the Minister for Social Services, who is at the table, will take note of my query. The Government has acted inconsistently. 
No increase whatsoever is made to the unemployment and short term sickness benefits despite the fact that Australia has one of the highest unemployment levels for many years. The adult unemployment benefit remains at $17 a week and the spouse receives $8 a week. In other words, an unemployed couple is expected to live on $25 a week. No extra payment is to be made for their dependent children. The maternity allowance has not been increased for years. As to child endowment, no increases are to be paid. The payment for the first child remains at 50c a week, for the second child $1 and for the third child $2. ls it any wonder that more and more wives and mothers are forced to join the work force in order to help the family to make ends meet? The funeral allowance is not increased. A short time ago reference was made to the subsidy for Meals on Wheels. Obviously the costs of that organisation have risen and like everybody else it must pay more for foodstuffs. Therefore an increase in the subsidy is warranted. 
I turn now to the supplementary assistance provided for pensioners who pay rent. Pensioners who are not paying rent in some cases are up for greater expenditure in paying off their own homes. They do not get any help in this regard. Like the rest of us in the community they are faced by escalating council rates and water board rates. They receive no help from the Commonwealth Government. In some States they are subsidised, in others they are not. In respect of people who receive rent allowance, no taper has been applied. The means test remains unaltered and the permissible amount without interfering with the entitlement for rent allowance remains at $1. There has been no alleviation at all despite the fact, as everybody knows, that rents are escalating in keeping with rising home building costs. 
I wish to press another point with the Minister and the Government concerning the required delay of 7 days before sickness or unemployment benefit eligibility is established. I have not heard a cogent reason why the benefit should not be paid for the first 7 days of sickness or unemployment. It simply means that when people come to your office you have to refer them to the State Welfare Branch to get some kind of urgent relief pending the processing of a claim. As far as the Commonwealth is concerned, for the first 14 days of sickness or unemployment these people are on their own. The payment is made retrospective for 7 days but for the other 7 days it seems that they are supposed to live on fresh air. 
One of the social service regulations quite frequently comes to my notice. Apparently pensioners who enter a convalescent home are allowed to let their homes for up to 12 months, subject to review at the end of that period. I cannot see anything magical about the period of 12 months. They ought to be allowed to let their homes indefinitely to pay rates and other costs, or not al all. Another important issue 1 would like to discuss relates to the mentally and physically handicapped. The Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare furnished  a  report on mentally and physically handicapped persons about IS months ago. Twelve months ago it was referred to an interdepartmental committee. This important report dealt with many aspects affecting the administration of several Ministers, not the least of whom is the Minister for Social Services. It dealt with matters such as the registration of the numbers of handicapped persons, their employment, workers compensation, pensioner benefits, tax concessions for the mentally and physically handicapped, and suitable accommodation for them. It also referred to home nursing and domiciliary care amongst its 82 recommendations. Fifteen months later the Government has not seen fit to do anything about implementing the report. 
This Bill contains some beneficial provisions that we have been seeking for years but it also has many deficiencies. 1 would have preferred the Government to set up a comprehensive inquiry into the whole sphere of social services as recommended in the amendment moved by the Labor Party. 
As the honourable member quite rightly said, it was about 2 years ago. The needs have escalated quite substantially since then. 
The Labor Party is concerned with both the qualitative and the quantitative aspects of education. We feel that the amount being now spent on education in Australia is inadequate by international standards. Australia spends about 4.5 per cent of its gross national product on education as against 6 per cent or 7 per cent spent by the more advanced countries. We say that what is spent is inequitably spread among the various sections of the Australian community to the disadvantage of those most in need. Also, we say that it is inefficiently spent because most of the money that has been spent has not been supported by research, certainly not by publicised research. Where, for instance, did the Government hit upon the figure of $167m? Where did it hit upon the figure of $48m for the capital requirements of non-State schools over the next 5 years? If there has been any research it has not been placed before this Parliament or the Australian community. It could be just a figure pulled out of the air for all the community is concerned. No wonder the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has spoken about secretiveness in government. Time after time recommendations for sizable expenditures come before this Parliament with no evidence to support the basis on which they are made. 
There is no evidence that this Government is considering the quality of education so far as aims, content, organisation or administration are concerned. Because we say that the Australian education budget is inadequate, inequitable and inefficiently spent, we believe that there should be a national commitment to education in this country. That is why we propose the Australian schools commission and the Australian pre-schools commission. 
I want to talk about some of the other aspects raised by the honourable member for Chisholm. I indicated as a preliminary how inequitable expenditure under this Bill will be. Apart from that, there are imporant needs not mentioned at all in this Bill. 
There has been some reference in the Budget to a sum of $5m to be spent throughout Australia this year for preschool education. The inequality starts in pre-school education. We find that the greatest neglect in pre-school education in Australia is in the communities where there is the greatest need. Typically it is in the lower income groups, the lower socioeconomic groups, in areas where migrants congregate and in areas where both parents have to go to work. Even allowing for all that, in New South Wales about 3 per cent of all children get pre-school education and those children mainly are in the more affluent areas. 
There is no reference in this Bill to technical education. There is no reference in the subsequent Bills to come before this Parliament to the great need for the development of technical education in- this country. As we look around at the deprived areas in Australia and the deprived schools about which We of the Labor Party talk we see that they are, typically, in the working class area - the areas with larger families, the areas where both parents go to work, the areas where there is a greater concentration of migrants, areas where there are more families dependent on welfare payments and areas where more children have to leave school at an earlier age. They are the areas which have schools in which there is the highest teacher-pupil ratio. There is also a greater turnover of teachers in those areas. Because of the inadequate facilities provided teachers feel that they have to get out of the place as soon as they can. They are the areas in which, often, more physically and mentally handicapped children are to be found, ls it any wonder then that we get the resultant inequality that is shown up in such figures as this: That 3 out of 10 children in government mid Catholic schools finish secondary schooling. But in the more privileged non-Catholic private schools 8 out of every. 10 youngsters go on to complete secondary education. This is the solid evidence of the result of the inequality. Many able children in lower socio-economic groups have to leave school simply because their parents cannot afford to keep them there. 
Looking at the other non-government schools which cater for 10 per cent of the school population, they get 30 per cent of the Commonwealth secondary scholarships. That has been the case to date. Only 4 per cent of applicants in government schools get Commonwealth secondary scholarships and 7 per cent of applicants in Catholic schools get them. But nearly 15 per cent in other private schools get scholarships. Nearly 4 times as many students in other private schools get scholarships as do those in government schools. One can go on to look at student-teacher ratios. In government secondary schools there is an average of one teacher for every 18 students. In private schools the ratio is one teacher for every 14 students. It is no wonder that the Minister comes into this place and tries to play down the importance and significance of student-teacher ratios. He says that they do not matter. But is very notable that all the affluent schools advertise each year that they have a lower teacher-pupil ratio than is found in other schools. They use that as an attraction to draw students to them. In this debate we do not want to get bogged down on how the Government, as against the Labor Party, will distribute the amount of money made available for nonstate schools. It is very important to recognise that at least 75 per cent of Australian children go to government schools. Therefore we have to be very concerned about the neglect in so many areas of government schools. 
In stressing the establishment of an Australian schools commission, the Labor Party wants to set up a body that has continuity and a comprehensive regard for education. Australian education in years gone by has been cursed by the insufficiency of research and by the fragmentary type of research that is carried out. Periodically we have an investigation into some segment of education. Recently in New South Wales an examination was made of secondary education. However, there is no overall view of the whole range of education, the integration of each section with the others and the continuity and development of education. That is why we are proposing the establishment of an Australian schools commission. It will be a continuing body, an expert body and a representative body on which both government and non-government schools and parents will be represented. Its job as a continuing research body will be to make recommendations for the material requirements of all schools but also, and very importantly, to carry out high powered research into the aims, the content, the organisation and the administration of education in Australia. If it does these things it will be doing something unprecedented in this country. 
We do not want to set up a centralised bureaucracy in Canberra; far from it. Because of the Australian schools commission's commitment to continuing research and because of its commitment to making generous funds available to State and nonState educational bodies, it will be possible to give encouragement to research by schools - individual schools, schools combined in regions, as well as schools that might be linked more intimately to a State system. But the whole idea is to have parental involvement, community involvement and decentralisation of educational decision making in Australia. So, it is far from the situation to say that the Australian schools commission will be looking to impose some bureaucratic uniformity on Australian education. The situation is just the opposite. Its purpose is to encourage research, to encourage teacher exchange - inter-system, interstate and the internationally - to conduct seminars and to make available the results of the kind of research that no State system has been able to do in the history of this country. 
Let me turn now to the claim by the Government that it is aiming for equality of educational opportunity. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
We have sought to develop programmes which will promote greater equality in the availability of facilities for all schools and all students. 
The Bill does provide for the first time for a needs basis in the allocation of money for facilities, buildings, equipment and the like, but it does not apply a needs basis for the recurrent funds. Where are most of the recurrent funds needed? They are needed for the payment of teachers and the support staff in schools. What the Government insists on - I am talking about the private system now - is that it will make the same per capita grants to all schools irrespective of their needs. I just cannot comprehend how any church or government could ever get the notion that that was equality. One can readily conjure up in one's mind the vast difference between the poorest parish school and the best GPS school in the community. One can go into the supply of teachers, the quality of teachers, the buildings, the great grounds that surround some of our GPS schools and all the other facilities in these schools. On the other hand there is the little parish school in Surry Hills, Redfern, Newtown or some other suburban area, which is located on a little piece of land with no grass around the place, just broken asphalt, and with inadequate or no library facilities. In many cases there is not even lighting in the schools. This includes state schools as well as nonstate schools. 
There is this vast difference in standards. Yet the Government comes before us and says that it wants to spend the taxpayers' money, and it gives equal amounts per student to the most affluent schools as against the less affluent schools. How can the Government call that equality of educational opportunity or equality of treatment. But the position is much worse than that. The Government does not give equal amounts to the affluent schools compared to the less affluent schools. In fact, it gives much more to the children in the most affluent schools than it does to those in the less affluent schools, simply because not only are they given an equal per capita grant but also very generous taxation rebates are given to parents who are able to spend $400 a year on the education of their children. Supposing that a parent in receipt of a taxable income of $4,000 a year was able to spend $400 a year on the education of his or her child at one of these least affluent schools, he would receive $107.20 by way of taxation rebate. I repeat that: A person with a taxable income of $4,000, under the current taxation schedule, would receive a taxation rebate of $107.20; but a person with a taxable income of $9,000 who is able to spend $400 a year on the education of his or her child will receive a taxation rebate of not $107 but $171, which is 61 per cent more. If you happen to be one of the very affluent people who can send their children to the very best schools - a person with a taxable income of $20,000 a year - you receive back $241 out of $400 by way of taxation rebate. 
So the position we finish up with is that the higher the income bracket of the parents the greater the percentage of help they receive in the education of their children. If we accept the Government's figure that it costs about S560 per annum to educate a child in a government school, this is what will happen under this Bill. If a person with a taxable income of $4,000 spends $150  -  which is the more likely amount that he will be able to spend - that is, $50 a term for the education of his child, he will receive a tax rebate of $40 and also have the benefit of the $224 which the Government is promising him under the per capita subsidy. What 1 am saying is that that person in receipt of a taxable income of $4,000 will receive $264 help from the Government to meet a total bill equivalent to $560 per annum. What I am really putting to the House is that the person in receipt of the low income that I have cited will get back 47 per cent of what it costs to educate a child in a government secondary school. But a person in receipt of an income of $20,000 will receive by way of taxation rebate and by the equal per capita grant provided under this Bill not $264 but $465. In other words, the person in receipt of $20,000 will receive 83 per cent of all the costs to educate a child in a government school if we accept the figure of S560. 
He will not receive all the subsidised privileges he receives at a GPS school - class loads, teacher quality and all the other things. I know that it is late at night to be dealing with figures in this debate. But it ought to be pretty obvious that the wealthier you are the more assistance you get from this Government to educate your child in a private school. I have tried to indicate that quite clearly in the figures that I have put before the House. Not only do the rich receive that kind of assistance to send their children through secondary school but also the vast majority of Commonwealth secondary school scholarships go disproportionately to children in the most affluent schools simply because they have greater facilities. They have the tudorships and all the rest of the aids available to them. They go on to collect Commonwealth secondary scholarships and then advance to get tertiary scholarships to which the honourable member for Fremantle alluded much earlier. They get a bonanza. This is the kind of thing that is happening; yet this Government is trying to tell us that this is in accordance with its educational aims of equality of opportunity. Even now of the 3 out of 4 students who will apply for 25,000 senior secondary scholarships which the Government is proposing, will miss out. And where do you imagine most of those who will miss out will come from? They will come from the downgraded schools, schools with inadequate facilities and with a high turnover of teachers. They will be children who have a lack of environmental stimulus in their home and a lack of community environment. They are the ones who most need scholarships. But you can bet your life that they will be high up in the proportion - 3 out of 4, even under the amended scholarship scheme - who will not get scholarships at all. 
We believe that the establishment of an Australian schools commission will do a great deal not only in meeting the material requirements of government and nongovernment schools in an equitable way but also in having the continuing systematic and comprehensive survey of educational needs in Australia that we believe to be most essential. We have it at the tertiary level. We cannot for the life of us see why the Government resists having it at the preschool, primary, secondary and technical levels of education. 
Motion (by  Mr Barnes)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
1 want to say a few words about the special appropriation in the estimates for teachers colleges. I notice that in 1972-73 $16,378,000 is appropriated. This is the final year of the triennium that is to end in June 1973. The Commonwealth made S30m available to the States for the building of teachers colleges during this term. This appropriation means that little more than half of the allocation has been used by the last year of the triennium. In 1971-72 $13,040,000 was appropriated but only $11,152,309 was spent. The question which readily comes to mind is: How is it that 
States which are so sorely in need of teachers college development have not been able to spend the money that has been provided to them? I hope that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  may know the answer to this question and will be good enough to indicate why this money is unspent. In fact, in the last year of the triennium we have now to spend almost half of the allocation for the triennium. 
I should like to know whether these funds are available for remodelling or restructuring existing teachers colleges. The utterly deplorable state of some of our tertiary institutions called teachers colleges has been drawn to my attention very recently. I take as an example the Alexander Mackie teachers college in Sydney. I shall give a few points about this college. For 829 students Alexander Mackie library has a seating capacity of 88. There are no private study rooms, as in high schools; no space for language laboratories and no air conditioning or adequate soundproofing. I turn now to the buildings and accommodation. Students and lecturers are forced to conduct lectures in physical education store rooms with poor ventilation and seating facilities. The noise level from Oxford Street, Green Street and Victoria Barracks reaches such a critical level that lecturers are virtually drowned out. This is the relevance of the lack of air conditioning. The poor planning of the college is exemplified by the toilet facilities. For a total of 600 females there are only 10 toilets - 8 useable; and for 200 males there are 12. Ventilation is completely unhygienic. I could go on and give examples of what is not there for sporting facilities and practical rooms. Demountables or portable classrooms are used in this place which is supposed to be a tertiary institution - an institution to train people who will have the responsibility of training our young people. 
I used to be a lecturer at Sydney Teachers College. I know what a derelict state that once great teachers college was allowed to reach. I am wondering why the funds are not reaching places like this. A former high school is now the Westmead Teachers College in Sydney. I think something of the same situation exists in Lismore and, if I am correct, at Newcastle Teachers College. Grave deficiencies exist at this level of tertiary education, yet $2m of the appropriation is unspent by the States. I hope that the Commonwealth will take up the strong recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts following its inquiry into the Commonwealth's role in teacher education, namely, to provide direct grants for the building of technical teachers colleges. I think the report advocated that there should be one such teachers college in each State. I had professional involvement in this field. I can only say that what I have just said about the Alexander Mackie teachers college can also be said, but in even more critical terms, about the situation at what passes as an annexe of Sydney Teachers College at the Ultimo technical teacher training college in Sydney. It has the absolute minimum of facilities. It is exceedingly cold in winter, very hot in the summer, has poor hygiene, has poor ventilation and has everything that one could imagine would detract from the performance of a student or a lecturer. I hope that the Commonwealth will look very hard at the Committee's strong recommendation that there be a modern technical teachers college established in each State. 
When I talk about technical education I am also very conscious of the fact that much of technical education is still in a pretty poor state. What I have just said about the derelict facilities, equipment, rooms and so on applies to many of the technical colleges in New South Wales and I dare say in other parts of Australia. The simple fact is that technical education, which should be at the forefront of technological advancement, often has to use equipment that is completely obsolete; instead of training people for advanced facilities and techniques, often colleges are way behind in their development. I hope that the Government has some thought about that. Whether the Government has or has not, certainly the Australian Labor Party has. The Labor Party has given a solemn undertaking that because of technical education's close connection with the economy of the country, to say nothing of social, educational and cultural aspects, a Commonwealth Labor government would take over responsibility for this level of tertiary education, as with other levels of tertiary education, thus relieving the States of their commitment and enabling them in turn to use the resources thus released from tertiary education for pre-school, primary, secondary and special education. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  referred to scholarships. I thoroughly endorse his views about the new Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships. As the Committee knows, the Commonwealth is proposing to provide 25,000 of these scholarships. In division 230, subdivision 4, items 04 and 07 of this year's Estimates there is a provision for Commonwealth secondary scholarships, finalising the present commitment. The amount provided will be $2,473,000 less than last year. But there is a new provision for Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships of $3,900,000. lt is important that honourable members should note that when those 2 appropriations are lumped together they still amount to an increase of only $1,426,000 on the amount provided last year. In other words, the 25,000 Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships to be provided this year are not expected by the Government to cost much more than these scholarships have cost in the past. So those people who quite readily point out that the Government is going to provide 25,000 Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships as compared with the provision of 10,000 last year need to have a look at the means test. 
An amount of $150 is to be provided that is not subject to a means test, but the other $250 will be payable subject to the application of a means test. I think it is implicit in the Government's figures that it expects many of the students who win these scholarships to be, as in the past, the sons and daughters of wealthy parents who would not therefore qualify for a living allowance. That is my reading of the figures and that is the expectation. Of course, it will still mean that three out of every four of the applicants for the 25,000 Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships will not be successful. Those three out of four applicants will be most likely the sons and daughters of people who most need scholarships. The means test will be applied only after the winning of a scholarship. These scholarships will be allocated on the basis of the special examination that takes place in fourth form. The means test will be applied after that. It is obvious that, once again, most of the scholarships - a disproportionately large number - will go to those children who have the best facilities and they tend to be those who come from the wealthier section of the community. This provision is not going to do much to relieve the already unhappy situation whereby only 4 per cent of the applicants in Government schools who applied for secondary scholarships in 1970 got them and only  1  per cent of those in Catholic schools who applied for scholarships got them. Of those in other private schools - more often the wealthier ones - who applied, 15 per cent, or nearly four times as many proportionately as those in Government schools, received these scholarships. I reiterate what I said last night in the debate on the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1972 that in some ways the Government's measures are a repudiation of all its policies since 1965 onwards but in other ways it still hangs on to the inequities and inequalities that are characterised by the Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships scheme. I reiterate what I started out by saying: I would like to see a much greater commitment to the development of teachers colleges. I know that there is to be a provision for the treating of them as colleges of advanced education with both capital and recurrent facilities. That is, of course, in accordance with Labor Party policy. 
I would like to say a few words about our foreign aid programme. Firstly, this is a very specialised task and it is one which I suggest requires the relevant amount of study, research and trained personnel. It has been asserted that Australia has not taken these points seriously, except perhaps significantly enough in view of the debate which we have just heard in respect of Papua New Guinea. Let us look for just a moment at the international setting, in very generalised terms I admit. The world is divided quite starkly and dramatically between rich and poor nations; the socalled developed and the underdeveloped or less developed. Some 20 per cent of the world's population controls 80 per cent of the world's income. Again, it seems to be commonly accepted that despite the efforts of aid the gap between the rich and the poor nations grows wider rather than the reverse. The problem has been compounded by the tremendous population growth, especially in the developing countries with the development of medicine. Its extension to these countries has helped to keep more people alive for a longer period. It is not just a matter of the birth rate but rather an extension of the expectation of life. In the developing countries the mortality rates among young people are now falling at the rate of 5 per cent to 6 per cent a year. It is stated that in Ceylon, for example, the use of DDT to eradicate malaria has reduced the death rate by 35 per cent in 2 years. 
During the first development decade, that is between 1960 and 1970, the lot or economic conditions for more than one billion people hardly changed despite our aid programme. Professor Hogan of the Economics Faculty at the University of Sydney, indicated recently that during this decade countries with a per capita gross national product of $400 or more increased their per capita real product by 3 per cent during the 1960s. Countries with a gross national product of between $251 and $400 per head achieved a growth rate not much different. Those of between $151 and $250 per head - and that is a pretty miserly amount - recorded a growth rate of just over 2 per cent per year. The poorest countries, with less than $150 income per head a year, had a per capita growth rate of only slightly above 1 per cent. That draws attention to the statement I made a short while ago, that despite this decade of aid there does not seem to be any relief for the mass of humanity who live in these areas. It is a case of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer despite the earnest attempts to provide international aid. Professor Hogan said: 
Thus between 1960 and 1968 the higher income developing countries increased their real per capita income by almost  $200  per year while the lowest income countries increased by not more than $10. 
There is much evidence of a need for more specialised research into our aid programme, both before the extrusion of aid and after it has been given. In the latter case there is a need for much more systematic valuation of the effects of our aid giving. 
I think we ought to take note of what is happening in some other countries in regard to this matter of proper research, systematic research and continuity of research. Great Britain has an Overseas Development Administration which is part of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. The United States Agency for International Development has a large degree of autonomy under the State Department. Germany has a Ministry of Economic Co-operation. Canada and Sweden have international development agencies. Holland has a specialised aid department. There does seem to be a strong case for Australia to develop such a specialised agency. I suggest that such an agency not only would bring to its use many of the specialised disciplines that are not available in the Department of Foreign Affairs at the moment but for those officers who make a career in international aid there would be a continuity in their career which is not available at present as members of the Department of Foreign Affairs. This kind of institution typically is not staffed by diplomats and general administrators but by specialists in many fields such as economics, sociology, anthropology, agriculture and forestry. 
Perhaps there should not be a separate aid department but rather a statutory authority responsible to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When I speak of a statutory authority I mean something like the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. This body could make use of the kinds of specialists I have mentioned as well as others. Such an authority would give a continuity of membership and it would also help to develop expertise amongst these people in this very important business of international aid and international development. Such a body would have a greater degree of freedom and flexibility. It could make considerable use of advisory panels to help it carry out its tasks. It is also noteworthy that in Canada there is the International Development Research Centre, the Council of which is chaired by the Honourable Lester Pearson who is so well known. One-half of the Council's members are from Canada and the other half are from around the world. 
In the few minutes remaining to me in this debate I will make a quick reference to another aspect of our foreign aid, and that is in respect of overseas students, particularly private students. The whole policy needs re-examining. There needs to be some study undertaken, and I understand that some study on this question is now being carried out at the Australian National University. This is a good thing. There needs to be an evaluation cf the benefits of bringing thousands of Asians to Australia to carry out their studies. It might well be worth examining whether or not it would be a lot better for us to send experts to and to provide facilities in their own country. Many students come to this country for upwards of 10 years. Some of them during that time cannot help being alienated from the kind of society whence they 'fearne. They, go back- to their -.own people, strangers! amongst them. There is a danger that in such a long stay in Australia 'the" courses which they may undertake "will become irrelevant to the needs of the countries which sent them to Australia. 
There is .also the danger that the courses we provide are- much too sophisticated for the kind of environment in which these young people are to operate. There is considerable evidence that the medical and engineering faculties and social science subjects such as economics are not altogether relevant to the kind of primitive society to which these people must return. Therefore it is suggested that there should be a closer selection of students to come to this country. Probably there should be greater emphasis on people coming here for short term courses and also postgraduate studies that may not be available in their own countries. In my view there should be greater emphasis on technical training in the developing countries. Even in Papua New Guinea which I visited over a year ago I found a tremendous dearth of technical training and of equipment in technical schools and colleges. There is a good deal of scrounging, if I can use that term, of old motor vehicle bodies in order to give some training in motor mechanics. The same applies to the building trades. If it happens in Papua New Guinea it happens even more so in Asian countries, as I found out from visiting them. 
In 1971 10,400 private students came to Australia. Australians need to be reminded that in respect of these students who come here Australia bears at least three-quarters of the cost. The fees they pay would not amount to more than one-fifth or onequarter at the most of the cost of educating them here. Therefore we should look at where these students come from. Of the 10,400 who came here in 1971, 6,786 or 65 per cent came from Singapore or Malaysia. Another 1,356 came from Hong Kong. So the vast majority of them came from comparatively well developed countries and it is a strong suspicion in my mind and in the minds of many others that many students who come here are the sons and daughters of comparatively wealthy parents. The question which should be examined is whether we can best help developing countries by giving aid of this kind possibly to those not so much in need of it. I hope that Australia will develop this independent semi-autonomous body which will look after our international aid provisions. 
In the absence  oi  the Minister for Education and Science I direct my question  to  the Prime Minister. Is  it  a fact that with the proposed fiat rate Commonwealth and State per capita recurrent subsidies  to  pupils  in  non-state schools plus taxation concessions  on  educational expenses  of  up  to  $400 per child, student children  of  parents  in the  upper income group will be receiving up  to  85 per cent  of the  equivalent costs  of  educating a child in a State government school. Where, as can be confidently predicted, many of these students also receive a large share of the Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships, will the amount of government support be over 100 per cent of comparable government school costs. By contrast, will private school student children of lower income parents- 
1 support the 18 amendments which have been moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  I only regret, if I may say so very briefly, that all this half baked legislation shoud be pouring through the House in this indecent way. I regret it very much and I am sure that the community will not benefit by this kind of procedure. The first amendment will, if accepted, have the effect of including in clause 4 children in orphanages as being eligible to go into these kinds of centres. We see no reason why these centres should be restricted to people residing in normal homes or residences. Our second amendment to clause 4 seeks to omit that part of the clause which reads 'other than an organisation conducted or controlled by, or by persons appointed by, the Government of the Gommonwealth or of a State'. What the Government is doing under this clause - we would like to have it remedied - is to abdicate proper responsibility for a very important educational purpose in the community. The Government would, I presume, never think in this day of relying completely and solely on voluntary initiative and voluntary effort in secondary or primary schooling or for secondary education or for any other segment of education; but for some reason the Commonwealth has abdicated responsibility in regard to pre-school education and what is more, it finds no place for State governments in the provisions under this Bill. 
It is readily seen, I am sure, that this Bill is focussed on the employment of women in the work force. That has been given away by the simple fact that the Bill was introduced by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  rather than by a welfare minister, such as the 
Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That is the give-away to the whole of this Bill. It is not only a halfbaked measure but it is focussed in absolutely the wrong direction. The direction of focus is of getting women into the work force rather than care and consideration for young children. Why should the Government be concerned in the way this Bill so much emphasises? Why should its concern be so much with the children of mothers who are in employment? Surely it is very important that the children of mothers who are not going out to work should also be catered for. 
It is readily recognised in all forms of modern psychology and psychiatry that a child's early years are very important in its emotional character and personality development. Perhaps I could talk about this at another time because I do not have the chance to expand upon it at the moment. 
So what the Labor Party is trying to do at this belated stage is to get the Commonwealth to come back and to accept responsibility. We do not by any means say that this should be a monopoly responsibility or that even in co-operation the States and the Commonwealth should have a monopoly responsibility. We are quite happy to se; the Commonwealth subsidising voluntary effort, but we think it is entirely wrong that the Commonwealth should rely so completely on private initiative. We all know it will be a matter of chance whether a local government body or a private organisation will come forward and take on this responsibility, particularly in the areas of greatest need, i think that what the Government is proposing is a complete abdication of responsibility by the Commonwealth in this matter. Therefore the honourable member for Fremantle has moved to clause 4, on behalf of the Opposition, amendment No. 3 which reads:   . . after paragraph (a) of the definition of eligible organisation', insert the following paragraph: (aa) an organisation conducted or controlled by, or by persons appointed by, the Government of the Commonwealth.' 
This gives the Commonwealth the opportunity either to take the initiative in setting up pre-school educational facilities and child care facilities - and I would hope after-care school facilities as well - or to empower other organisations such as State governments to take on this type of responsibility as well. 
The Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  labelled the purpose of the Opposition's amendment - and I think I am quoting his words - as socialised and centralised control. I am glad then that there is this difference between the Government and the Opposition. We are not prepared to see the development of this facility inhibited by a sole reliance on voluntary effort. People who are in the field of voluntary effort - and I talk to them quite often - very greatly regret In many cases that this responsibility has been thrust upon them in lieu of action by responsible governments. What this Bill sets out to do is regretted by them as much as by us. The question has been put to me: 'What voluntary organisations can with confidence set about establishing a pre-school centre, because organisations are not to know whether or not they will come within the early provisions set out under this Bill? How are they to know whether they will be on the priority list? An organisation at Oatley in my own electorate raised this issue with me yesterday. I was asked: 'Can you say whether we would be eligible?" How the devil can I tell them whether the&gt; will be eligible? Priority will be given in the first year of the operation of this scheme which will cater for only about 50 centres. Just imagine, 50 centres over the whole of Australia. The Government could provide the $4.8m allocated in this Bill to a couple of municipalities in Sydney alone without talking about the whole of Australia. Yet this amount is to be provided for one year. The Minister for Education and Science only earlier this year said that it would cost SI 60m to provide pre-school educational facilities all over Australia in line with what obtains here in the Australian Capital Territory. That is just how miserable this provision is. 
The Commonwealth opts out of any direct responsibility. It opts out of giving any authority or assistance to the State governments to provide for child care facilities. Only about less than one-tenth of the people estimated in 1968 to require this kind of assistance will be provided for in the early years of the operation of this proposal. That is why the legislation before us is such an inadequate measure. Unfortunately we have not the time or the opportunity in this debate to discuss whether it is such a good thing anyway for mothers to go to work, especially when a child is in the first couple of years of its life. Quite a deal of debate is going on in this field outside of the Parliament. However, this Parliament will not have the chance to discuss such a measure. There is no provision in the legislation for alternative arrangements in regard to proper child care facilities. There is no provision, for example, for helping in an informal way in private homes, where trained people could go in and look after a number of children in a professional but rather informal way. There is no indication of what part parents themselves might play in regard to pre-school education by going along to a community centre and helping those who are already professionally trained for this purpose. 
The Bill also stipulates ever so rigidly what the formula will be in regard to what the child-teacher or child-nurse ratio shall be. If I remember correctly the. ratio is one in twenty for nurses and one in fifteen, or part thereof, as far as professionally trained teachers are concerned. The simple fact is, of course, that some of the people who will be most needful of pre-school education and care will be mentally and physically handicapped children. Surely the Government has. been told often enough already that it would be unrealistic to adopt such a ratio in the case of these young people; that they would need a ratio at least two times better than that. The whole proposal is so rigid. The Government says that the Minister may set up the child care standards committee but it does not say that he shall. This aspect of the Bill is the subject of one of our amendments. The whole Bill is riddled with ministerial discretion, even in regard to what organisations will get financial assistance. In many other places in the Bill there is provision for ministerial discretion - decisions at the whim of the Minister. The Labor Party wants to see the Government at least come up with a proposal to give real power to the child care standards committee. There are many other things which I would have liked to have said about this inadequate Bill but unfortunately time will not permit any further comment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and Science. Is it a fact that with the proposed flat rate per capita subsidies to students in non-State schools together with generous taxation concessions and also a high proportion of Commonwealth senior secondary scholarships, many children of parents in upper income groups will be receiving more than 100 per cent of the equivalent costs of educating a child in a government school? By contrast, will many more children of parents in lower income groups in non-State schools receive 47 per cent or less of such costs? Finally, why does the Government insist on giving such beneficial treatment to certain already privileged private school students as compared with its inadequate provisions for the mass of students in government and less affluent private schools? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the amount of cash subscription, for each term offered, in each cash loan issued between 1st July 1950 and 30th June 1972. 
What was the amount of Commonwealth securities, for each maturity date, maturing between 1st July 1950 and 30th June 1972. 
What was the amount of subscription, for each term offered, for each conversion loan issued between 1st July 1950 and 30th June 1972. 
What was the amount of securities on issue in respect of (a) the Commonwealth and (b) the States collectively (i) maturing in Australia and (ii) maturing outside Australia as at 30th June in each year from 1930 to 1972 inclusive. 
What was the balance of the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve as at 30th June in each year from 1950 to 1972 inclusive. 
For each series of Special Bonds, what was the (a) date the issue was opened, (b) total amount subscribed, (c) interest rates offered, (d) first date on which redemption was possible, (e) final maturity date, (f) maximum capital gain and (g) amount outstanding on 30th June 1972. 
What was the amount of securities on issue, held for (a) Commonwealth and (b) State purposes, as at 30th June 1972 maturing (i) in Australia and (ii) outside Australia in each financial year after 1972. 
My question is to the Minister for Education. Did the New South Wales Government make a specific application to the Commonwealth for additional funds to employ qualified teachers currently available for but unable to gain employment in New South Wales? What was the basis of the reply given to any such representations? Finally, was the New South Wales Minister for Education,  Mr Willis,  correct in publicly stating that the Commonwealth apparently was unprepared to make any further funds for educational purposes available to the States during the remainder of this year? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to newspaper reports of likely chaos in private nursing homes because of probable substantial increases in costs arising from the impending wage increases? Is the machinery for the review of fees in nursing homes adequate to provide for an expeditious hearing of applications for such reviews? Will there be a review of the Commonwealth subsidy payable for patients in such nursing homes in the event of justified increases in fees? 
Is the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the fierce opposition of the residents of the southern areas of Sydney to any proposal to build the city's second major airport at Towra Point on the foreshores of Botany Bay? Have the 4 local government councils of Kogarah, Rockdale, Hurstville and Sutherland Shire, along with many other civic and community organisations representing probably nearly half a million citizens, expressed such determined opposition? If so, will the Minister ensure that full consideration is given to the attitude of these people who have suffered the inconvenience of Mascot Airport for years when a decision, soon to be made, is taken on the four or five sites to be included on the short list for further intensive investigation? When does the Minister expect to announce the list? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Secondary Industry. It relates to a statement by the Treasurer in the Budget Speech that a review will be made of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Scheme and that firms will be assisted to commence research and development and thereafter will be required to finance such activities themselves. Will the Minister clarify whether this means that assistance will cease to all firms with industrial research and development facilities already established and employing trained and experienced research personnel? Will the Minister also explain what is the position of firms currently seeking assistance under the existing Industrial Research and Development Grants Scheme and whether there will be an opportunity afforded to them to adjust their research and development expenditures and programs in line with any change in policy in this area? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is is a fact that the Australian Government is being accused of choosing Galston for an intensive feasibility study as a possible site for Sydney's second major airport, on purely political grounds? Is this charge justified? Does the Minister recall any feasibility studies being conducted by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins, before he ruled out Towra Point as a site prior to the 1969 elections, when surrounding Federal electorates were tenuously held by Liberal members? Did  Sir Robert  Askin, the Premier of New South Wales, consult the Minister before arbitrarily ruling out Duffy's Forest as a possible site? Does this location also happen to be in a- 
 I am indebted to my distinguished colleague the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for the preparation of the amendment I am about to read to the House. He had intended to move it but because he has already spoken on the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I understand that he is not eligible to do so. The amendment reads: 
The notice of motion be amended by omitting all words after 'that' in order to insert the following in place thereof: in the opinion of this House three Commissioners be appointed to inquire into, investigate, take evidence on oath, evaluate and make recommendations to the Australian Parliament in respect of the following: 
The circumstances which cause women to seek abortion; 
The medical and social consequences of abortion including the health, security, well being and future enjoyment of life by the woman concerned; 
The action required to assist women in avoiding the necessity for abortion; 
The action required to deter persons, including the male parent, from aiding and abetting an abortion; 
The adequacy and effectiveness of existing family planning techniques; (0 The action required to ensure medical practitioners will always act in the interest of safeguarding a woman's health and well being when abortion is sought. 
The action required to ensure that all medical services are available free of cost to all women where pregnancy becomes a social and medical problem; 
The action required to establish the necessary supportive services to ensure the well being of the mother both during and after the pregnancy; (i) Generally, as to the action required to ensure the preservation of life of the mother and her unborn. 
That the Commissioners have access to all Federal authorities' records relating to health, social security, matrimonial causes and income tax and have power to seek the co-operation of the respective State authorities in these jurisdictions and including the State Law Enforcement and Child Welfare agencies. 
As far as practicable the Commissioners to comprise a mother experienced in social welfare, a medical practitioner, and a criminologist. The Commissioners to be assisted by senior counsel and have the power to sit in camera. 
In moving this amendment-- 
I rise also to support the Bill. Quaintly enough, despite what we have heard, the Opposition is supporting the Bill. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who preceded me spoke about inflation eating into the pension increases that have been made under the 9-months-oId Whitlam Government. I will come to that point in a moment. I picked up something the other day that fits in nicely with an announcement that was made tonight. I do not know whether the purport of it has hit the Opposition yet, but this was an interview on the Macquarie network weekly broadcast with the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  on 24 August 1972. I quote in part from that interview. The questioner, after talking about pension increases, asked the former Prime Minister: 
One of Che complaints that I have heard voiced by people calling Open Line to this station has been that whenever something like this happens with pensions - 
He was referring to pension increases -  all that happens is that such people as the pensioners' landlords take it away again. Can something be done about this? 
The former Prime Minister replied, and I think this deserves particular note. 
This was Prime Minister McMahon. He replied: 
That is difficult because we have no power here, but what we have done in this Budget is to provide that supplementary assistance, that is assistance to those pensioners who have to pay rent, would also be increased by $2 to $4. Regrettably, we haven't a direct influence here. I only wish we had. 
In other words, he was pleading for Commonwealth price control. I hope he is still of that mind when in the very near future he gets a chance to do something about that. I have a respect for the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for what he has done in the field of social welfare. I pay him that respect. Unfortunately he had to battle awfully hard against a very reluctant government while he was Minister. Whilst it was true that he promised to abolish the means test in 3 years, and whilst he promised that the pension would be equitably taxed, what guarantee could we have had about what the then Minister's ideas were about social services as against what his Government believed? He was pleading to abolish the means test when on the other hand his Government was saying: 'It is impractical to do it. It is unjust to do it.' Does nobody remember the other former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  saying that it was inequitable to be giving pensions to wealthy people while people on low incomes were not enjoying a decent living? Then we have the charade that went on for weeks about whether we were to have a poverty survey. Prime Minister McMahon said at the time that he was not in favour of it. Then the Sydney Morning Herald' of 16 August 1972 carried the headline: 'Government changes its mind: Poverty inquiry assured'. And what paltry terms of reference the inquiry was given. They were such that the present Minister has had to enlarge substantially on them. 
Let us look at what inflation has done to the pension increases. When at any time in our history has any government given 2 increases in pensions in 9 months? When has any government ever made increases retrospective to election day? When has any government at the first opportunity it had of bringing down a pension increase, in our case in March, made it retrospective to the date it was elected? Can anybody ever remember those sorts of things? No. All previous pension increases were postdated rather than backdated. According to the previous Government they could not be backdated, but it could backdate benefits for certain people in primary industry when the Liberal Party's partners in the Country Party squeezed its arm hard enough. 
I have a table which shortly I shall ask to be incorporated in Hansard. I have shown it to the honourable member for Mackellar. I can refer to only a few of the items in it, because 20 minutes gets by all too quickly. Take age and invalid pensions. This is the realm of social services that is most involved. Last October under the previous Government the pension for a single person was $20 a week. If we take account of the changes in prices from September 1972 to June 1973, to retain its value the pension should have increased by now from $20 as it was under the previous Government to $21.35. But what is the pension under this Bill? It is not $21.35; it is $23. In other words pensioners in real terms are $1.65 better off. Likewise, if I make a similar comparison, we find that married pensioners are $3.68 a week better off, even allowing for the price increases that have occurred. Applying the same exercise to a class A widow with a child over 6 years of age, accounting for these price increases her pension should have risen from $28.50 as it was under the previous Government last October up to $30.42. Instead of being $30.42 it is $32, so she is $1.58 better off. But much more dramatic, of course - the former Minister will always regret that he did not have the opportunity to do this - is that class B and class C widows are on the same rate as class A widows. Why should a woman of say, 58 years of age get about $3 a week less than she would have got when she turned 60 years of age? To the great honour of the present Minister he made all these pensions and all these different kinds of allowances uniform, because he recognised that all widows have common needs in terms of housing, rental, food, entertainment and the rest. A class B or class C widow in October last under the previous Government had a pension of $17.25. If we allow for price index changes she would now be entitled to $18.41, but what does she get? She gets $23. She is $4.59 better off than she would have been, even allowing for the price increases. So much for the rot about inflation eating into the pension increases of this 9-months old Government. 
Now I turn to unemployment and sickness benefits. The ordinary rate of unemployment and sickness benefit for a single adult last October at a time when we had very high levels of unemployment, was $17. Allowing for price changes it should now be $18.'15. Instead it has achieved uniformity with other benefits and is $23. So a single unemployed adult person is $4.85 better off in real terms. This is the kind of progress that has occurred within the 9 months term of office of the Whitlam Government. Even more dramatic still is what we have done for young people under 21 years of age if they unfortunately happen to be sick or unemployed. A married couple in this category received an ordinary rate of $25 per week last October. Fancy a married couple being asked to live on $25 a week between them. If we allow for price changes their benefit should now be $26.68. But what is it? It is not $26.68; it is $40.50 under the present Government. They are $13.82 a week better off in real terms, in buying power, than they would have been under the previous Government. 
I can go on and give even more dramatic examples, such as the benefit for an unemployed single person under the age of 18 years. A youngster of 16 or 17 was supposed to live on between one-third and one-half of what an adult was given. Tell that to my son. Tell him that he is going to eat about onethird of what I eat. He eats twice as much as I do, and it costs as much to clothe him as it does to clothe me. As recently as last October, before the previous Government went out of power, a person under 18 years received an unemployment benefit of $7.50. If we allow for price changes he should be getting $8.01 now. But what does he get? He does not get $8.01; he gets $23.  His  benefit is $23 also. He is all but $15 a week better off. How the devil can anybody challenge these sorts of things and say that there have not been substantial improvements? I pay tremendous tribute to the Minister. Unfortunately in the time I have available I will not be able to go through all the items I have listed. 
The honourable member for Mackellar, leading for the Opposition, made a point about taxation. I would like to reassure those people who may be listening and all those who are coming to our offices with all this talk about pensions being made taxable. I find that most of the ones who come to my office worried about the taxation provisions are the ones who have to worry the least. They have their pension and little more than their pension, and they will not be touched. As a matter of fact at least 80 per cent of pensioners will not be affected by taxation under this Bill. As a matter of fact aged people with a taxable income, including the pension, of up to $1,921 will not be required to pay any tax or lodge a return. In other words they will be able to have their $1,199 pension and they will be able to earn $722 as well. I am talking about a single person now. A person with an annual pension $1,199 and receiving up to $722 in other income will have no tax to pay and will not even have to worry about lodging a tax return. I know that many of these people are more worried about having to fill in a tax return than they are about paying tax. For God's sake, let them not be worried. Please let us be responsible and do not worry them unduly about it. Most of the people who will be paying tax are very well used to paying tax and know very well how to fill in a taxation return. The Taxation Office will be presenting a booklet shortly that will show everyone specifically where he stands. The age allowance has been abolished not from any surreptitious motive but simply because of this progressive introduction of the abolition of the means test for everybody over 65 years of age. The expert advice is  that the age allowance would be 'inequitable, anomalous and outdated'. So the move was necessary. 
If the age allowance were maintained we would have the position of struggling young families being worse off than a married couple on the full pension. Under our new rate pensioners could have a total income of at least $75 a week and not pay a razoo in tax. Is that equitable? I shall show honourable members in a moment what happens to other people in the community. They will not pay so much tax anyway, even under our taxation scheme. For those over 75 years of age under our provisions a couple could have a tax free total income of $4,426 net. That would be after deductions for rates and all the other things that are normally deductible. That couple Would get $2,112 net pension and $2,314 age allowance. Such a couple could get $85 a week net without having to pay any tax. So that is why it is inequitable. 
On the other hand an ordinary tax paying couple with 2 dependent children, on the Sydney minimum wage of S60.80 a week, allowing for normal deductions would pay tax of $170.70 a year. So we need to have a bit of equity about these things. The simple fact is that we cannot make an extra privileged class way above all the other people who are starting off in life building a family and building a home and doing all the other things that have to be done by a young family - sending children to school, clothing them and the rest of it. So there was no justice. I think that the former Minster recognised this. He also was going to tax pensioners.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have a table incorporated in Hansard. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I regret that it relates to a much more restricted field than did the previous question. Is he aware that because of a strike by departmental radio and radar operators southbound aircraft which usually take off and land on the north-south runway at the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport are presently being diverted over thickly populated areas in my electorate and other southern suburbs of Sydney instead of proceeding as normally across Botany Bay? Can he assure me, my constituents and others interested that the present air traffic route will be used only for the duration of the strike? Finally, can he indicate whether a settlement of the strike is likely in the near future? 
I cannot properly say that I am absolutely amazed at the speech I have just heard by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten).  It was rather characteristic of the former Minister. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, had more sense. He realised the popularity of this measure and the action taken by the Government in March last. He realised how popular were the actions of the 9- months-old Government with ex-servicemen and for that reason he made a low key speech. But that was not true of the former Minister for Repatriation, the honourable member for Indi. He made a great song and dance about the rumour that the Repatriation Department is to be disbanded. I have not heard such a proposition and I am a member of the Labor Party and of the Government's Repatriation Committee. I am sure that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  who represents the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  and who is now at the table, will answer those allegations categorically when he gets a chance later in this debate. 
The honourable member for Herbert referred to the special compensation allowance. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who spoke earlier in this debate, indicated why Labor has always opposed the special compensation allowance. It was introduced as a dodge in about 1968 to avoid giving pension increases to persons receiving below 75 per cent of the war pension rate. Even now, with the gradual elimination of this special compensation allowance, there will be pension increases for the 100 per cent or general rate pension as it is called. Furthermore, even with the reduction of the special compensation allowance, it will enable those pensioners who happen also to be in receipt of a part service pension, and possibly in some cases a full service pension, to be more than compensated for the loss of that special compensation allowance. So a loss will not be sustained, which is what the Opposition would have us believe. 
I do not want to dwell on these negative aspects of the Opposition's case. The Government has done many positive things and I hope that the public will get to know of them and to recognise them. I agree with the comments of the honourable member for Herbert concerning allegations of the poor treatment that many ex-servicemen get when they go before entitlement appeals tribunals. I have heard it said on many occasions that they do not get a fair hearing, they do not get a chance to put their own case and they feel that they are in a court of law with all its coldness. With all due respect to my legal friend, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  I would suggest that an appeal tribunal was designed to avoid the notion of it being a court. Lawyers do not appear before tribunals and efforts are made to get away from the court atmosphere to enable people to loosen up, to be at ease and to put their cases at their own discretion. 1 understand that there are many complaints from ex-servicemen about their not having that opportunity. This is not the first time that I have registered such a protest myself. I am glad that so well informed a member of the Opposition as the honourable member for Herbert also recognises this situation and brings it before the Parliament. 
As I have already said, there is little comment to make on what was said by the honourable member for Indi. He referred to the possibility of the Repatriation Department being abolished. This is hearsay. He had little else to talk about so he had to make a big speech about a rumour that most probably is completely baseless. He referred to Labor's election promise to bring the totally and permanently incapacitated pension up to the level of the minimum wage. That pension will be up to the minimum wage in March, slightly more than a year after the Government was elected. I wonder whether the honourable member cares to recall, when he stirs the Returned Services League to protest, the very strenuous protests he received as Minister for Repatriation about the woeful inadequacy of the pensions that were paid to totally and premanently incapacitated ex-servicemen and general rate pensioners. I have documents in my possession concerning those protests but I will not bother the House with them because most honourable members who have been in this House for a time are familiar with them. They show how the TPI rate, the war widows rate, the services pension rate and the general rate of war pension declined substantially in relation to the average wage in the community and even in relation to the minimum wage in the community. This Labor Government has done much to remedy that situation. My colleague, the honourable member for Scullin, referred to this aspect. 
I wonder where the Opposition stands. On the one hand the Government is being berated for being a spendthrift government and for causing inflation by the mammoth amount of money it is spending on welfare - welfare includes ex-servicemen in particular - and on the other hand the Opposition is asking the Government why it does not spend more still. Where does the Opposition stand? Its reasoning is pretty hard to follow. Let me dwell for a short time on the positive things that are included in this Bill. I remind the House again that these follow on the immediate increases made when the Government came to power. Let me refer to Service pensions. For those who are not aware of it let me say that the Service pension is equivalent to the age pension or the invalid pension that is paid under social service provisions. Service pensions were increased by $1.50 in March and made retrospective to the day the Government was elected. What is more, this Bill does the same for Service pensioners as the current Social Services Bill does for age pensioners. For all persons over 75 years of age the means test has at last been abolished. The previous Government had 23 years of opportunity to do that, but it did not do it. 
The Bill contains provision for free medical and hospital treatment to be provided for all ex-servicemen of the Boer War and the 1914- 18 War. I would not care to think how long ago it was that the Returned Services League first made a plea for that provision. Many of those ex-servicemen have died without the benefit of it. If there are not so many around now to benefit by it, that is the fault of the previous Government for not having done anything about it. Let me turn to another feature of this Bill - the provision for treatment of those servicemen who suffer from malignant cancer. The Bill does not go so far as I would like it to go; I will be frank about that. On a few occasions in this House I have been responsible - as have a number of my colleagues - for moving amendments to Bills presented by the previous Government in order to make cancer an automatically accepted war-caused disability. This Bill does not go that far but it does do something very important. It goes a good part of the way by making treatment of cancer a repatriation hospital and medical responsibility. That should help some of those unfortunate victims - there all too many of them in our community - who suffer from this wretched disease. That should please the 'RSL because it has been very strong in its pleas on that ground. 
My colleague the honourable member for Scullin . also referred to the very beneficial provision of artificial limbs which are to be made available not only to all ex-servicemen and serving servicemen but also to all civilians in the community. Let me be frank again. We will not be able to do this overnight. I hope that all those civilians and exservicemen who want their artificial limbs renewed will not expect to be able to go along to the artificial limb factory and receive them tomorrow. This will take a while. I hope that they will be patient. But they have the assurance that in this legislation it is guaranteed to them. As has been mentioned, the Bill contains provision for repatriation hospitals to be used by civilians when the beds are not being taken up by ex-servicemen. I want to be assured that priority will be given to wives of ex-servicemen in this matter. I think that is a fair thing to ask. This Bill, generous as it is, still has not got around to making the wives of totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen automatically entitled to repatriation hospital and medical treatment. I hope that they will receive top priority when these beds are made available to people other than entitled ex-servicemen. 
There was a whole schedule of the various pension increases read out by the Minister the other night when presenting the Bill. To cite a few examples, TPI ex-servicemen will be receiving $55.60 a week, an increase of $4.50. I think this is easily the biggest increase ever granted. What is more, they have the assurance they will get another increase of $4.50 in March to bring them up to $60.10, which is now the minimum wage. The general rate or 100 per cent rate pensioner will also receive an increase. For those who are not familiar with these matters, a 100 per cent rate pensioner is not a man who is totally reliant on his war pension. He is a man who could be going to work. He suffers a disability. He suffers the disability that he is not getting the promotional opportunities that he might have had if he had not had the disability he suffered. So we try to compensate him. I think 'compensation' is a much more appropriate word than 'pension'. We try to compensate him. So the man who gets this 100 per cent rate pension will be getting an increase in this Bill with the qualifications which have been criticised by the Opposition. I remind honourable members again that a number of men on the 100 per cent rate war pension are no longer working; they are retired. They are also entitled, under the means test, to receive a part service pension, and in some cases possibly the full service pension. Those over 75 will most certainly receive the full service pension. 
I am delighted to note another thing that has not been referred to in the debate so far. We are in the process of doing, something that has been asked for by ex-servicemen and their various organisations such as the Returned Services League and the other TPI and exservicemen's associations for years. For the purposes of the means test for the service pension, which I said before is equivalent to the age pension for a lot of people, we shall not count war pensions as income in the same sense as income derived from other sources, say from employment. Under this Bill we shall disregard 25 per cent of what a man receives by way of war pension. That will not be held against him under the means test while the means test is retained. Of course I know that in another couple of years there will not be a means test anyway for those over 65 years of age. 
As I say, so many positive things and so many things that have been asked for for so many years have been provided in this Bill. Of course there are particular cases of people who have suffered special disabilities or who need clothing allowances. There is provision for increases for children of ex-servicemen. I have already referred to the provision for cancer patients. As we all know, under existing and past provisions, there is no guarantee that if a service pensioner or a part war pensioner - somebody on less than 100 per cent - goes into a repatriation hospital he will be allowed to stay there indefinitely. He is allowed to stay there indefinitely if he is being treated for an accepted war-caused disability, but if a service pensioner is being treated in a repatriation hospital for a medical condition he will be retained there only until his condition has cleared up to such an extent that he needs only convalescence. The position is that then he is often asked to leave the repatriation hospital and go into a private convalescent home. I hope that in time we will do away with that requirement. We are taking one step towards it in this Bill. We are providing that if a pensioner of the 1914-18 war who has been given therapy in a repatriation hospital has to go to a private nursing home he will have to pay only $17-odd. I cannot put my finger on the exact figure at the moment. 
I thank the ex-Minister, whom I have been severely castigating. It will assure him that he will not need to rely on somebody else to help him to pay his convalescent home bill. Unfortunately this does not apply to so many other people, civilians, who have to go into convalescent homes. Despite the Government's huge subsidy to nursing homes many relatives are being called on to subsidise the treatment of persons in nursing homes at this stage. I am sure that this is a matter which is worrying the Government 
Also in the Bills is the extension of repatriation benefits to serving members of the forces. This is another very significant measure. This is revolutionary. It was asked for by the Returned Services League as recently as 24 February 1972, when the National Secretary of the RSL,  Mr Keys,  was reported in the 'Australian' of that day as having made a submission to one of the two commissions of inquiry into the repatriation system. He said: 
The RSL believes it is very difficult to distinguish between involvement in warlike operations and preparations for those operations. 
From a national viewpoint, it is essential that the conditions under which members serve in the armed forces be of a level to attract and hold the necessary number of volunteers. 
He was asking that serving members of the forces be eligible for repatriation benefits. They are also covered by Commonwealth compensation benefits. They cannot get both but they can maximise by taking the best of the two that are offering. I cannot elaborate on it. There are certain qualifications that have to be met. As from last December one qualification normally is that a member should have served in the forces for at least 3 years. This is an attraction and it is also a very great benefit to members serving in the forces. 
We are castigated often as not being interested in the welfare of servicemen. I wonder, in the face of this Bill, whether we can possibly be accused of ignoring their interests. So much has been done. Of course, this legislation comes on top of what we are doing for the housing of servicemen, the vastly increased amount of money that has been made available for them, the increase in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme, the increase of salary payments and so on. And there is probably a lot more still to come. We are committed to taking account of the recommendations of the 2 commissions of inquiry - one set up by the Senate at the behest of the Labor Opposition of the day and the other an independent inquiry set up by the previous Government in succession to our actions. 
So a lot has been done by this Government in 9 months for which I know the exservicemen, their dependants and their wives are very grateful. Those who are unfortunate enough to be widows of ex-servicemen are also very grateful. They have the assurance that there is a lot more to come. This Government is committed to giving deep consideration to the recommendations of those 2 commissions of inquiry to which I have referred. I heartily support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. On clear evidence that most Commonwealth secondary scholarships were mainly going to students of affluent parents, did the McMahon Government amend the legislation of the Menzies Government to provide that only $150 of the $400 scholarship should be means test free? In the past year what proportion of scholarship winners were entitled to only the $150 means test free award? Finally, what implications does the Minister draw from this figure and what corrective action, if any, does he recommend? 
I  rise to support the Bill. Before I go on to make my own positive remarks on the Bill let me refer to a few of the remarks made by the 2 speakers for the Opposition who so far have taken part in this debate. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  a former Minister for Education, seems to have learnt nothing. He has forgotten nothing, but he has learnt nothing from the experience of 2 December 1972. He still goes on with the same old complaints about centralism, talking about how this new enterprise - the Commonwealth Schools Commission - is going to centralise the task of education in Australia. 
We remember his pre-election prophecies about how this Commission would want to appoint every teacher to every school in Australia and all this sort of nonsense. He conveniently forgets that his own government or governments of his kidney in previous times set up comparable bodies at the tertiary level - such as the Universities Commission and the Commonwealth Commission on Advanced Education - on which this Schools Commission is very much modelled. 
The honourable member quite conveniently forgets those things. He ignores the provisions in the Bill when he talks about centralism. He ignores the provisions in the Bill that give the Commission, with the sanction of the Minister for Education, power to set up all kinds of consultative bodies in the community. Why all this nonsense about centralism when it is explicitly stated in the Minister's second reading speech that the State governments will still have control of State education and all that we will be doing will be helping them to do it a lot better. The honourable member for Wannon talked in a derogatory way about the Commonwealth taking over the financial responsibility for tertiary education. Does he not remember the outcry from every State Minister for Education about the formula imposed upon the States by the previous Commonwealth Government in respect of financial grants to the States whereby for recurrent benefits the States had to find $1.85 for every $1 that the Commonwealth provided? What was the result? The result was to distort the educational pattern. 
We had very good universities and we had very good colleges of advanced education. But look around the community, look around the inner suburbs - but do not restrict it to that - and look at the condition of so many of the primary and secondary schools in Australia. Do not look for pre-school education because so little of its exists. Do not look very much for the welfare of the handicapped children in our community because they are still running chocolate wheels to raise funds to maintain their own schools. I could go on with further examples. The former Minister for Education has the hide to say: 'Our concern is for a high standard of education for all children and our particular concern is for those most in need'. That is a laugh when one remembers just how the previous Government gave flat rate grants right across the board, niggardly as they were, and the poorer schools got exactly the same amount per capita as did the richest schools in the country. Yet the honourable member for Wannon refers to that as 'our concern for those most in need'. 
Does he not remember the science grants provisions whereby twice as much per head was spent on private schools as was spent on state schools? Does he remember what the previous Government did not do about the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare which was tabled in May 1971 in respect of the welfare of the mentally and physically handicapped children in Australia? That report culminated from an inquiry set up in 1970 in the Senate at the behest of Australian Labor PaTty senators who at that time, with the co-operation of the Democratic Labor Party, had control in that place. 
That report lay on the table for 18 months prior to the last election and hardly a thing was done about it. Like so many other reports it was pigeon-holed. It was referred to an interdepartmental committee. We went to the election on 2 December and all those handicapped children in Australia, not only those in private schools but also those not able to get into any school at all, were deprived. The least of God's children, you might say, were deprived by this former Minister for Education who now expresses his concern for all children. 
I could go on with other examples of this woeful state of affairs that I have referred to in regard to so many of our government schools. But what about the concern expressed by him about there being no guarantees. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  - if he would care to listen to my remarks - was looking for guarantees in respect of private schools, but he ought to know that many of our private schools had to close down. Look around the countryside. Look- at the number of private schools, the number of Catholic and other schools that have had to close down. At this stage 40 per cent - and the percentage is rising every year - of the children who would have liked to go to, say, a Catholic school have been denied that choice because those schools could not be maintained. The previous Government did nothing to help to sustain those schools. Yet in this Bill the aid for all such schools has been more than trebled. I know what the reaction is in my electorate. The private schools have been amazed by the liberality of this Bill and the provision it makes to sustain them. I am talking about not only the non-systemic schools but the systemic schools as well. Our prime concern, I suppose, always has to be on behalf of the approximately 75 per cent - and it is rising still higher - who go to state schools. We have an obligation to them, an obligation which the previous Government ignored. 
Let me turn now to the report itself. The report had to be produced in a hurry. Let us be frank and admit that. The urgency of the situation demanded it. We gave a guarantee that when we became the Government we would set up this Interim Commission, and we did that immediately we became the Government. Within 5 months this very capable body, this dedicated body of men and women, produced this report. That body has done a magnificent job on behalf of Australian education. Of course there are defects in the report. What body, exercising such a wide charter, could avoid making some errors? Well, it has the opportunity to revise the report. The Commission that will be set up as a result of this report will be widely representative. More will be said about that during the debate, I would imagine, as we go into the Committee stage of the Bill. 
The overriding principle guiding this Bill is that it should provide for quality of education and that it should provide for equality of educational opportunity. As a first step towards achieving that which provides the basic requirements that are so much denied one does not have to go very far - just go to schools in all of our metropolitan areas all over Australia - to see the dingy schools, the dingy class rooms, the high turnover of teachers who refuse to remain in those schools and playgrounds that are represented by a dingy little piece of potholed asphalt. Yet, on the other hand, we have schools that occupy literally acres of green pastures. This is the kind of thing we decry and that is why we sought a mandate from the Australian people to give something like equality of opportunity. Until we can bring all those schools which have been so neglected up to a reasonable standard we are going to restrict the amount of grants that we will give to those schools which already have reached the standard which the Karmel Committee reckoned was a reasonable standard for the Australian school system. 
I have not heard any of the State Ministers for Education decry this Bill or its provisions. In fact in New South Wales, at a time approaching the State election, the Minister for Education is busying himself going around announcing how many teachers he is going to recruit. 
Let that interjection be recorded. They all accepted it willingly. In my State of New South Wales at the present time advertisements appear day after day in the newspapers to recruit more teachers. We did not see that during the Liberal-Country Party regime. We see that more school buildings are to be erected, more ancillary staff are to be recruited and more librarians are to be trained. The State cannot get the bodies quickly enough now and it has funds like it never had before. Surely that is the prerequisite to setting up a decent educational system in Australia. We are not concerned only with the qualitative aspects; we are concerned also about the quantitative aspects, despite the remarks of the honourable member for Chisholm who suggested that we lacked some kind of value system and that we were concerned only with material things. As a former teacher in the educational system in New South Wales I regard that remark as a gross reflection on the vast body of teachers in government and non-government schools. To say that teachers concern themselves only with material values is a gross reflection on any body of people, and in my view this is a dedicated body of people. 
Not only have the State Ministers applauded what has been done. The Australian Council of State School Organisations, the schools themselves, their professional bodies, and parents and teachers alike have applauded this step. Why should they not applaud it after looking at some of the figures. I will not have time to say all that I would like to say. Why should not these people applaud this step when you consider what the Karmel Committee report provides. For the 2 years 1974 and 1975 the Karmel Committee report will provide an additional S467m. That is additional to the amounts that were to be provided under the previous Government's scheme. Taking into account what the previous Government was going to do, that provision will give the government and non-government schools of this nation $693m more than the 1972-73 provision. In the 2-year period, 1974 and 1975, government schools will get $476m extra on what the previous Government had provided in 1972-73. They will get $476m extra. It is said that we are not making any guarantee for the existence of non-government schools but they will get $123m extra during that time compared with what they got in 1971-72. 
This is in the record and the honourable member for Wannon has been supplied with the details. He may not have had time to read them but they are on record. The tables are there for him to read. I shall refer to one of them - payments to or for the States in 1973-74. 
Surely it is obvious to the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is the spokesman for the Opposition and a former Minister for Education, that the States will still have quite expansive expenditure in their own field. They will have resources of their own which they will be able to allocate at their own discretion. All that we are doing in this Bill is to supplement what the States have. In fact, the Commonwealth is taking over the full financial responsibility for tertiary education to make available to the States those extra funds which they will be using at their own discretion. 
The second point - and the Minister has, I think, made it quite adequately - is that there are a number of provisions in this Bill for organs of co-operation and consultation, not only with the Education Ministers who are on the Australian Education Council but also for a wide variety of people in the community who might want to participate and forward advice to the Schools Commission. We propose to set up advisory boards. This Bill gives the Commission, with the sanction of the Minister, authority to set up specialist committees which might relate to deaf children or might deal with equipment of some kind. They might refer to the State curriculums and so on. There are so many opportunities available. 
One of the main themes of this Bill is the chance to get out into the community, to consult with the States, to consult with the independent or non-government schools. This has been going on and the Minister has just testified to this fact. That has happened within 5 months - not years. Within 5 months that consultation has taken place. So I think that this Government has established its bona fides as a democratic government - because it has been consulting with the clients, consulting with the practitioners and seeking advice from wherever it could get it. We are going to establish and institutionalise much greater opportunities than ever existed before. 
I heard the honourable member for Wannon say: 'Well, we have learnt a few things since we have been in opposition.' I hope so because I can recall the previous Government bringing the Universities Commission Bill into this chamber. That Bill was passed through the House. The previous Government committed every one of the State governments in respect of their universities, apparently without even having asked them. The previous Government decided that it was up to the States to match the Commonwealth financial offer and it was left to the States to accept or reject the offer. The previous Government said: 'If the States are prepared to put up this amount of money we will pass this legislation.' But that legislation was passed before the States had given any indication of their agreement to accept it on the terms the previous Government had offered. In many cases the only way the States could match the offer was by increasing substantially the fees of all students who entered tertiary institutions in successive years. 
What happened in respect of the universities happened also in regard to Colleges of Advanced Education and apparently the same thing would happen to the teachers' colleges now that they have become autonomous bodies in various parts of the Commonwealth. One could allude to other examples. Look at the legislation on social welfare. Much of that legislation which passed through this place was dependent on the States and in some cases local governments providing a grant matching what the Commonwealth was providing, but without them ever having been consulted. As a result many of the welfare proposals which were put up in 1969 never got off the ground because the States said: 'You will not give us the money to enable us to provide the matching grants to go on with proposals and build senior citizen centres or to pay welfare officers and so on.' 
The Opposition has given us a pretty bad example of consultation, if that is what it is preaching here tonight. I agree with the Minister every bit of the way. The activities of the Commission will require every bit of the work of 4 full-time commissioners. The Opposition has provided the Government with a good argument. The Opposition has told us what a sizeable commitment we have because there are 9,600 schools. We do not intend to do what members of the Opposition were prophesying or trying to portray before the last election as what we would be apt to do, such as appointing teachers to one school, shifting them around, telling them what they would teach or anything of that sort. All that sort of rubbish, that propaganda, has now gone. But this Opposition still wants to carry on some of it by the stupid notion of centralism. 
If there is one feature about this Bill it is the lack of centralism, except that we are providing funds - after consultation - in very considerable amounts. The consultations will not be in respect of funds only. There will be consultation in respect of research and consultation relating to possible administrative procedures. As a matter of fact, the Bill provides for special allocations to enable people to carry out experiments. It might involve a single school or a group of schools. We are trying to get rid of the dull uniformity which has beridden the Australian educational scene and which has caught the eye of most educationists who have visited this country. The centralism of the various State bureaucracies of education is what we are aiming to get rid of. That is why we are offering money to these people and to all independent schools which want to carry out innovations or experiments. So all the nonsense about centralism and suggestions that we are not consulting others is the kind of idle propaganda - mischievous propaganda - that was put up at the last election. I am happy to be associated with the Minister who spoke so eloquently tonight and will go out to the polls any day honourable members opposite like in order to defend this Bill. 
 I have been amazed that the Opposition has found so little to criticise in our educational program. It is fastening on to the fact that the socalled A category schools are to be deprived of support either at the beginning of next year or possibly the year after. The decision on that matter has not yet been finally made. But supposing that these so-called A category schools, of which there will be about 70 over the whole of Australia, were deprived of Commonwealth support simply because they have already achieved a standard which we hope that all other schools, government and private, will reach by 1979. What the Opposition conveniently forgets is that even the parents of students attending A category schools will still be able to get the taxation concessions they have always got despite all the propaganda to the contrary. It will still be true for at least a while yet. There was never any protest in the past about the fact that most of the senior secondary scholarships - 25,000 last year, tenable this year - went to children in the higher socio-economic bracket and that as a consequence of that most of those who go on to tertiary education come from that socio-economic group. 
No notice is taken of the fact that as from the beginning of next year all of these privileged people, amongst, I hope, many others, will be able to go to a university, to a college of advanced education, or to a technical college full time and have all their fees paid by the Commonwealth of Australia. The Commonwealth is taking over complete financial responsibility for each of these institutions, and all full time students attending those institutions will receive their education free. Under our liberalised means test many of them will also receive a living allowance increased somewhat above what has been provided in the past. Amongst all the documents that pour onto my desk each day I noticed yet another one yesterday titled 'Teacher Education 1973-75'. It is the report of the Special Committee on Teacher Education. I will be fair enough to acknowledge that in the dying days of the last Government the Australian Commission for Colleges of Advanced Education was asked to set up a special committee to inquire into teacher education. All I can say is that it should have been done about 10 years ago. Anyhow, it was set up and it has now brought forward a report. If we accept it, it will commit the Australian Government to spend over the next 2 or 3 years a tremendous amount of money. As a matter of fact the report indicates that if we accept the recommendations as reported in table 7 on page 58 of that report the total commitment will be 5206,649,000, of which, on a matching grant basis as operated under the previous Government, the Commonwealth will have to supply $83,943,500. In fact it is quite likely that the Commonwealth will be accepting a much bigger liability than even that which that report recommended. 
I turn, though, to another aspect of education that hardly gets a mention in many of these debates. I made some reference to it in my speech the other day on the second reading of the Schools Commission Bill which promises over $600m to be spent by the Commonwealth in 1974-75. All this has been conveniently forgotten in the petty criticism by the Opposition. I made brief reference to the state of technical education. Of course I am glad to note that under this Government we have set up a committee of inquiry into technical education, and that committee is expected to bring down a report that will lead to implementation of recommendations as from July of next year. The simple fact is that the previous Government did so little. Unfortunately at this stage I cannot reveal the information given to me as a member of the Public Accounts Committee about what went wrong with previous allocations for technical education by our predecessors. But the simple fact is that we are very short of technicians and tradesmen today simply because there was inadequate support for technical education in the past. Furthermore, the recession we had in 1970-71 also led to the curtailment of apprenticeships, and as a result it is no wonder the people in the community today are finding it so hard to obtain tradesmen, even in many cases at grossly inflated prices, whether they be television technicians, bricklayers, plasterers or tradesmen in any of the building trades or the engineering trades. In every one of these fields our progress has been retarded because of the unavailability of skilled labour. An article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 30 March of this year stated in part: 
Total apprentice intake in Victoria has been declining for some time and in 1971-72 reached a low (in all trades) of 7.SO0. This compares with 11,000 boys who applied for apprenticeships during the year and a projected actual need of 15,000 new apprentices. 
In other words only half the number of apprenticeships were taken up as the community estimated was desirable in the State of Victoria alone. Not only do we need to give much more encouragement to technical education to the apprenticeship system in particular, to the technician level of training and to the technologist level of training, but we also ought to be doing something about teacher education in the Department of Technical Education in New South Wales and in sections of the departments of general education in the other States of Australia. I only need quote from the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on the Commonwealth's role in Teacher Education of February 1972. This is what is said by way of introduction to the chapter on the training of technical teachers: 
The economic standard and quality of life in Australia will in future depend to an increasing degree upon the standard of education provided for the skilled work force. If high quality education is to be provided in technical training, institutions must be both highly qualified in their specialist fields and adequately equipped for their teaching role. 
So it goes on. Time would not allow me to go on and quote all of the things that were said. I wonder how many members in this House or how many people in the community recognise that there are more students involved in technical education in this country than there are in all other levels of post-secondary education - and that takes in the universities, colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges and all the rest of them. There are in Australia over 400,000 students involved in technical education. From my observation, especially under the previous Government, technical education was the poor relation, the Cinderella, and that applied under State systems of education as well as under the Commonwealth. One would have thought that a Liberal-Country Party Government so intimately interested in the material development and allegedy so interested in the economic development of the community would have seen to it that technical education got a fair go. Unfortunately I note that even the latest report on teacher education does not seem to take up the recommendation of the report of the Senate Committee to which I referred a while ago - the recommendation that every State should have at least one technical teachers college. In New South Wales the technical teachers college is only part of the Sydney Teachers College, and a pretty derelict place it is. Victoria alone in all these years is the only State that has received a Commonwealth grant for the building of a technical teachers college. That was in the suburb of Hawthorn, I think in 1967. I make a strong plea that if we are talking about productivity, if we are talking about uplifting the economy of this country, we ought to give greater attention to this vital sector of education - technical education. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a reported reply by the New South Wales Minister for Education,  Mr Willis,  during a recent question time in the New South Wales Parliament in which he stated that the additional money provided in this year's Commonwealth Budget for education for New South Wales was about a mere$10m? Is this statement correct. 
I wish to refer to the very significant event that took place in Sydney last Saturday, the opening of the Opera House. I indicate briefly that I heartily support the remarks that have been made already by my colleague, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  regarding the way in which that significant event, not only for Sydney and New South Wales but for the whole of Australia, was marred to some extent by the introduction of petty party politics into the whole affair. Other people have mentioned this matter to me and I do not doubt that some of them are not of my own political persuasion. They noted the studied failure to acknowledge the presence of the Prime Minister of Australia at that function; the fact that he was not even asked to appear on the official dais with  Her  Majesty, the Premier of New South Wales and the Premier's entourage. We will never know the embarrassment that this must have caused to  Her  Majesty. 
The petty politics went so far that there was not even an acknowledgment of the man who had the great foresight to initiate this wonderful project, of which we all feel so proud now. 1 refer to the late Honourable Joe Cahill, a former Premier of New South Wales. He had to fight, not only outside his own Party but also within his own Party, to get that project going. He received no acknowledgment whatsoever last Saturday. No recognition was accorded to our international visitors or, indeed, to our distinguished interstate visitors who were present at that function. I refer to State Premiers and others. The Australian Government was no mean co-operator in the staging of that wonderful event last Saturday. The taxpayers, with the Australian Government's sanction, provided for the flyover by the Fill aircraft and the appearance of the Army and Navy bands. The Commonwealth car fleet was made fully available for use on that occasion. The Australian Government also provided television facilities for the international coverage of the event. That coverage, I would say, drew great attention to Australia. I understand that the Australian Government may even have supplied the fireworks that were used in the course of the function. 
It is significant that this function took place a day or two after the Premier of New South Wales announced that a State election would be held in some 4 weeks time. This is an example of democracy at work under liberalism. In some areas, to my knowledge, the Liberal Party has not even selected its candidates - and these are candidates not for blue ribbon State seats either. This illustrates the kind of election campaign and the kind of discussion that we are to have about the great issues that will affect New South Wales, the senior Australian State, in . the next 3 years. They will all be dealt with in a matter of 3 weeks. One might ask: Why the rush? I suggest that the uncollected garbage - that was an unfortunate event, and there were other people involved in that event of which I did not approve - was not the only source of unsavoury odours in Macquarie Street, Sydney, last Saturday. I suggest that the political pollution that surrounds the Administration in Macquarie Street was just as unsavoury. 
In recent weeks I have spoken to some senior police officers about the incidence of crime and the cover-up of crime that is going on under the present Askin Administration in New South Wales. It is significant that only a few weeks ago the pressure from the public media became so hot that  Sir Robert  Askin handed over his ministerial responsibility for the police force to another Minister. Also, it is no coincidence that the Minister for Environment Control,  Mr Beale,  was sacked from that office because of his ineptitude in looking after conservation matters as they affect the welfare of the New South Wales people. I mention the suspected sell-out to various mining companies. We all remember the great Clutha scandal. That project, if carried out, would have resulted in the pollution of some of the most beautiful areas of the south coast of New South Wales. I remind honourable members of the Myall Lakes controversy and other matters of that type. These are all typical of the recent actions of the New South Wales Government. 
Honourable members will recall the great financial scandal of the notorious Barton affair and the cover-up which is still going on in respect of that matter. There is also the coverup of those behind the pyramid selling companies in which people in New South Wales have invested in good faith. Those behind these companies have left Australia, and investors find that their money has gone and they have no chance of recovering it. At least action in this respect has been taken in South Australia. The other day, the Australian Broadcasting Commission in a news item referred to the fact that legislation was to be introduced to cover this sort of practice. A person rang me to ask whether it was the New South Wales Government which was taking this action. I made inquiries and found out that it was not. Sure, it was not. The South Australian Government was taking action. Even the Victorian Government has introduced legislation in relation to pyramid selling, but not the New South Wales Government. It would be the last government to do so. 
I refer to the fight which the counterparts of the New South Wales Government in this Parliament are putting up to prevent the passage of our trade practices legislation which will give enormous protection to the consumers of this country. My God, don't they need it! The Trade Practices Bill to provide consumer protection was introduced in the Senate weeks ago. This Government is not in control of the Senate, and yesterday that chamber blocked the passage and even prevented discussion of that Bill. This is the kind of protection that these people are giving to others. Today, this Government must introduce the Trade Practices Bill in this House so that we can at least debate it and expose to the people the kinds of corruption and protection of vested interests, which are exploiting our community, being carried out by the Liberal Party and the Country Party, whether in the New South Wales Parliament or in this Parliament. 
I direct the attention of honourable members to the 'Australian' of 20 October which headlined an article relating to the New South Wales State election: 'Government has no time to pass promised legislation'. The article referred to the legislation that was announced by the New South Wales Governor when opening the session of the New South Wales Parliament which commenced in August last. No time will be available to pass much of that legislation. Yet the N&lt;;w South Wales Government requires the N.w South Wales Parliament to sit for only a few weeks in each year. Let me enumerate some of the promised legislation which that Parliament has not had time to pass. I remind the House that these are promised actions and not the many things which need to be done in that State. The State Government did not introduce laws to control noise pollution, as it had promised. It did not introduce legislation to reform the laws of defamation. It did not introduce legislation to impose stricter regulations on the sale of second hand cars. All sorts of other spheres are involved in that matter. It did not establish the office of an ombudsman to investigate complaints against the Public Service, although Western Australia, Victoria and South Australia have already appointed ombudsmen for this purpose. 
The New South Wales Government did not introduce legislation to amend the law in relation to legal aid, as it had promised. Yet we hear talk about equal justice. What justice is there in the community when persons seeking justice cannot afford it and when a State government resists providing from the public purse assistance to those who seek justice but cannot afford it. The list goes on. Some promises go back 3 years; others were made 6 years ago. But still nothing has been done by the Government of New South Wales to honour those promises. That Government promised also to give protection to people who are sent unsolicited goods or fake invoices. All of these actions were promised by the New South Wales Governor in his speech opening the New South Wales Parliament last August. This is what the New South Wales Government was going to do, belatedly, before the next State election. But no, this action has not taken place. I could continue through a whole series of broken promises. I could go into many other fields. But I have not the time to do so. Talk about grievances! I have here grievances a foot long. 
I refer now to the matter mentioned by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  here today in relation to the report of the Consumer Affairs Bureau which was tabled in the New South Wales Parliament last week. An article in the 'Australian* of 20 October refers to that report. That article states: 
Far too high a proportion of complaints falls ultimately into the "situation clarified" category', the report says. This category encompasses the many instances where companies invoke the letter of the legal advantage which they so often enjoy in relation to the consumer and where the doctrine of caveat emptor (let the buy.er beware) is loaded so heavily in their favour. 
In all too many cases the elaborate and plausible explanations offered by companies, both large and small, show scant regard for what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It can be argued that, in some respects at least, the level of moral responsibility displayed by some such companies is lower than that of the trader who sets out with the deliberate intention of defrauding the consumer'. 
The article states further: 
This highlights the bureau's lack of real power. 
The Labor Opposition under the leadership of Pat Hills made a firm promise a week ago that it would set up a department of consumer protection in New South Wales. The next day Askin said 'Me too' after he has had the opportunity to do so for years. 
I have enjoyed this debate on education probably more than any other debate in which I have participated over the last 12 years. It has been a most fruitful and positive debate. It has been  most helpful that  in general both sides of the House have been in agreement. It would be easy to be tempted into making comments of a Party political nature such as saying: 'Why did you not do that in the 23 years you were in office?' However, I should like to forget that tonight because of the positive nature of the debate so far. I find myself very much in agreement with the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who has just spoken about technical education. As a matter of fact, I spoke last week or the week before on much the same thing. People in Australia must wake up to the fact that more students are undertaking technical education than there are in all other forms of post-secondary education put together. I believe that two years ago, in round figures, 400,000 students were attending full time or part time technical education institutions in this country. I drew attention to the fact that not only is this intimately related to the economic development of the country but also it could be - I was very glad to hear the former Minister say this - a very realistic form of education for these young people. This is a form of education that will motivate people, their interests and their activity much more than the kind of academic education that they would receive in formal secondary education. I agree with the honourable member wholeheartedly on that aspect. Later, I will go into that subject and develop it further. 
One of the few matters that was taken up by the Opposition in this debate was the subject of part time students and how they could be disadvantaged by the provisions of this Bill. In the course of the suspension of the sitting this evening, I asked the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library to take out some figures on part time students. I have here the latest figures available on that situation. I am sorry that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is not here now because he was the first member to raise this matter on behalf of the Opposition. I think the honourable member for Chisholm (Mr Staley) also raised the question of part time students attending universities or colleges of advanced education. These figures are for 1971. The number of part time students at universities in that year was 44,339. As a matter of fact, that figure rather surprised me; but there it is. These are students who are dedicated enough to pursue their studies. Those who go along to universities for part time studies usually in the evening must be dedicated people. Unfortunately, the drop out and failure rate in this area is abnormally high as a result of all sorts of circumstances. Of those 44,339 students, 2,396 were awarded Commonwealth university scholarships. So, when we are talking about part time students in the category mentioned by the honourable member for Wannon, we are speaking of a mere 5.4 per cent of all part time students who were awarded university level part time scholarships. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has ceased to be interested for the moment in this debate. He has had a hard day. He is sitting for university examinations. I point out that I am not trying to make fun of him; he is a good friend of mine. The honourable member has been carrying out his studies in addition to performing his parliamentary duties. Other members of this Parliament have done university courses in the course of their parliamentary careers, and they have not always been members who have safe seats and who may not have needed to work hard at their parliamentary duties. The honourable member for Robertson has told me that among the part time students with whom he has associated in his class are some who are fairly well endowed people financially. They are people who are already embarked on careers. Perhaps this is particularly the case in Canberra where so many career opportunities are available. These are people taking the opportunity to advance themselves by attending part time studies. I should imagine that sometimes these people can go to the university on day time release and participate in part time degree courses or studies. 
Let us turn to the other segment of tertiary education to which reference was made. I refer to the colleges of advanced education which are multiplying in number and absorbing very steeply increasing numbers of young people who are going to these institutions to study. In 1971, these colleges were really only getting under way. In that year, the number of part time students at colleges of advanced education was 24,995 of whom 1,236 had been awarded Commonwealth advanced edu cation scholarships. This is 4.95 per cent of total part time students at those colleges. I pay respect to the point made by the Opposition about part time students, but let us not exaggerate it out of all importance. 
This Bill is a most important measure for the numbers of people who will be allowed by it to go to university, or to attend colleges of advanced education or to participate in full time technical education free of any fees. Many of them know that, as from the beginning of next year, under this Government they will be receiving a higher living allowance than they ever were paid before. The means test on this allowance will be substantially liberalised. This is the kind of revolution to which we direct attention and which is taking place under this Government. The accessibility to higher education that will be available under this Government should be recognised. Concomitant obligations fall on us. It is no good this Government abolishing fees for students at these institutions if there are no places at those institutions to which they may go. The Government faces a big commitment to build additional universities, university colleges, colleges of advanced education, technical institutes and technical colleges in Australia. 1 hope that many of these will be established in country areas; this will be part of our decentralisation program. 
This development will not occur overnight. On some basis or other next year a selection process will need to be followed. But I hope that much higher percentage of the sons and daughters of ordinary working class people will be able to get into these tertiary institutions. From memory, I think that statistics show that the number of students attending institutions such as universities in particular whose parents were working class persons was 2 per cent of the enrolment of those institutions. A large percentage of students is made up by the sons and daughters of top administrators and professional people in the community. What we wish to do is to democratise opportunities for education in this country. 
I hope that the media will draw attention to this fact. Looking around the Press gallery, I note that all members of the media are absent with the exception of 2 gentlemen. I hope that the media will give to these vastly important matters a fragment, a section, just a small proportion of the reportage that they give to the horses that ran around a course at Flemington, at Rosehill or at Randwick today so that we- 
I did not lose today. I did back a winner. So, I am not a dissatisfied customer. I am a once a year man in that respect. But the media devotes pages and pages to that aspect when important debates in this House on education receive little more than a couple of paragraphs in our newspapers. I hope that the media will recognise the part that they should play in educating the community as to what is available to it in the form of educational opportunities and that they will educate us in this Parliament as to what the community needs to satisfy the kind of requirement to which the honourable member for Gwydir referred this evening. I do not wish to deal too deeply with what other people have said because I have some positive comments to make myself. 
As I said, this Bill is tremendously important. Its importance has been, I think, downgraded a little. What is proposed is no mean effort. The proposal that the Labor Party would, first, abolish fees on tertiary education and, secondly, provide a more generous living allowance based on a much more liberalised means test was a very important factor in the last election campaign for the House of Representatives. As a matter of fact, recently when I was being driven to the airport by taxi, I had a conversation with the young taxi driver who, when I asked him: 'Do you do this all the time?' replied: 'No, I am a student at university'. I asked: 'What course are you doing?' He said: 'I am in fourth year medicine'. I said to him: 'Good on you. You have gone this far. You are well on the way'. He said: Oh, it has been hard. Golly, it has been hard. I have had posts and so on, but I have got there and I think I can make the rest of the distance'. Then he asked me whether I belonged to a department and I admitted that I did not. I said that I was a politician. He said: 'What side are you on?' I said to him: T am a member of the Labor Government.' I waited to see his reaction. He said: 'Thank God for you blokes.' I am not saying this in any partisan fashion. He said to me: 'Next year I will not have to find that $650 to pay for my fees for medical tuition'. That was the cost of his fees alone, not of his living expenses to go with those fees. 
He said: 'On the basis that I will not have to find those fees next year, I will not need to do this job that I have been doing at night all the year round to pay my way through university.' He was not on a scholarship. No, he was doing it the hard way in common with a number of other people in our community. He was most grateful to think that next year he would be able to dedicate himself much more to the task mat should be his, dedicating himself to his studies to give himself a chance to avoid the need to do post examinations and to achieve a much  greater competence  as a doctor, as will other people in the various professions that they have chosen. This example demonstrates the significance of this measure. It has tremendous significance to a large number of people. It will be of significance for vastly more people in the generations to come. We are not talking just of individuals themselves. We must recognise that this is a community investment. The fruits of this action will be available to the whole of the community whether people are enabled to attend universities, colleges of advanced education or technical institutions, or whether people further their education at institutions such as the open universities that we will provide. 
This Bill we are debating tonight is important but it is only one part of a whole program that this Government in its zeal has brought in during the 10 or 11 months in which it has been in office. The Government started doing some small things that needed to be done but which were very important to the individuals concerned. The isolated children who live way out in the never never have received living allowances which will enable them to board in at schools. That assistance was given under a Labor Government, not under a LiberalCountry Party Government. This Government has provided $3m relief for tertiary students in need simply because university fees and fees for colleges of advanced education were increased for the second year in a row by 16) per cent and a lot of students looked like having to give their studies away because they could not afford to continue. But the Government came to their rescue and provided $3m which was apportioned at the discretion of the administrators of those institutions. Those were the immediate things the Government provided. 
We set up the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and the relevant legislation has gone through this House. I hope that it will go through the Senate. The other day there was a threat that the Opposition in the Senate might not support it. I hope that that is not true. The Karmel Committee report - brought down in some haste, some people allege, but built on a lot of other information that was available to it for years and not used - is an epoch-making development in Australian education. I hope that it will be allowed to be implemented because, if it is not, many thousands of youngsters will be denied their opportunity. The Karmel Committee report picks out disadvantaged children and specifies them, and instead of their receiving the least help, as they used to receive, they will be over compensated, if I may put it in that way. There will be a positive discrimination in their favour. 
For many years handicapped children have been denied opportunities. The organisations concerned have had to run chocolate wheels to help run their schools and pay their teachers. I hope that that sort of thing is gone. This is what the Karmel Committee report is all about. I hope that the media will help the Government get across to the community what is being made available. Let me refer to what is to be done for teachers. There will be a big development in this field. There will be an inquiry into the matter to which the honourable member for Gwydir referred. The Government has set up an inquiry into technical education and further education. The honourable member was dead right. He was right on the ball for my money tonight when he talked about technical education being for a long time the Cinderella of education in Australia. If we want to raise productivity, if we are thinking only in economic terms, this is a tremendous investment. I was glad to hear the honourable member say that he also wants included in that technical education for those youngsters a good element of the humanities. They have to be good citizens in the community as well as working in the factories and business houses. They have to be enlightened, informed citizens and they have to be able to take their place in the community. Eighteen year-olds are eligible to vote, to elect governments and to stand for Parliament. They need that kind of experience too. That inquiry is due to be finalised before July of next year. 
It is possible that even this week we will have another report. A lot of people ridicule the Government for all the commissions it has set up, but they will see the fruits of them in the next 12 months. An interim pre-schools commission has been set up to provide child care for the mothers who have to go to work and for those who do not want to go to work but who would like to see their children mix ing with other children and being socialised. I do not mean that in the political sense, and honourable members opposite should not get het up about it. I think that people know what I mean by the socialising process of helping them to grow up as personalities with children of their own age, being taught by people who are professionally skilled to help bring them up. Then there are those who want to go to pre-school kindergartens at 3 to 5 years of age. The Government wants to extend to the rest of Australia what we have here in Canberra. The children here have that opportunity but in most of the other States very few children have that opportunity. Generally only those in the middle class and the higher middle class groups have that opportunity. 
There is so much more I could say about all those things that are planned. They are developments on the way. I have not said anything about the expansion in education planned for in this year's Budget before these reports come in. These developments will be complemented by further activities by the State governments. I do not want to give the present New South Wales Government any kudos at this time as there is to be an election on Saturday week. That Government knows that the Commonwealth Government will take over the commitment for post-secondary education. That is important. Because this Commonwealth Government will make vastly increased provision for senior secondary students, it will be possible for whatever Party becomes the Government in New South Wales on Saturday week to give much more help to students in first, second, third and fourth forms so that they may stay on at school, put themselves in the race to obtain the senior secondary scholarships and maybe go on to obtain free entrance to the tertiary institutions provided by this Labor Government. 
Of course, a lot of this will be wasted unless we can do something in our tertiary institutions to improve the teaching standards. I have been in the business of training teachers so I suppose I can speak with some authority. Various comments have been made by students about the terrible quality of lecturing staff at universities and colleges of advanced education. I have lost one of my quotations on this aspect but a more recent one states that universities particularly seem to play down the business of teaching as their main function. Their function seems to be research. Research is very important but it is not much good unless it reticulates into the community. That can only be done by passing it out to students. It ought to be done efficiently. There ought to be far more efficient and many more efficient lecturers, teachers and tutors at universities. 
I note that  Dr J.  A. L. Matheson, the ViceChancellor of Monash University, has changed his views completely. He too thought that research was the main function of universities but he came to recognise that he was wrong. Unfortunately time will not allow me to read at great length an article dated 27 August 1973, which states what he thinks about the importance of teaching. It is of no use allowing students to go to universities to receive inefficient, ineffective tuition. We will have to try by moral persuasion to get teachers to examine their techniques and all the paraphernalia that goes with teaching. They must examine what they are aiming to do with the students and they must be very much more awake to what their objectives are. There is a lot in this Bill, but it is only part of a much more extensive program of education that will do a tremendous amount of good for this country socially, economically and for the personal development of each person who attends those institutions. 
What action will the Minister for Housing and Minister for Works take in relation to construction firms working on Australian Government contracts which take part in lockouts of unionists directed by the Master Builders' Association of NSW? 
Tonight I would like to discuss a very important field of health care which has administrative and financial implications for 3 departments, the Departments of Health, Social Security and Repatriation. I refer to our hospital system, both public and private. There are over 1,000 approved hospitals, both public and private, in Australia today, excluding Repatriation hospitals, with over 80,000 beds. Their running costs are enormous, even in the public sector alone. The States now spend over $320m a year directly on hospital services. Even the Commonwealth spends more than $44m on Repatriation hospitals, plus a further huge amount in indirect payments to the States and in the form of subsidies to private hospitals. The Australian Government recognises the importance of hospital care within its total health plan. It has appointed the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, headed by  Dr Sidney  Sax, to recommend increased capital expenditure on hospitals, both new and established, and also alternative forms of health care which may serve to keep people out of these high cost, capital and labour intensive institutions, and to use more appropriate forms of medical care. This is well worth lengthy discussion itself, but I intend to examine mainly the impact of the Government's White Paper on health insurance, and see how it will affect the present structure of hospital services in Australia today. 
First of all, the Government's attitude is summed up well in the White Paper's opening lines. They are: 
The level of a person's income should not be a barrier to receiving whatever hospital or medical service he or she may need . . . Similarly in a country as wealthy as ours no one should be subject to the indignity of a prying means test to determine his or her eligibility for various forms of health care. The freedom of people to choose the type of hospital care they want, and their right to the ready availability of medical services are fundamental principles of Government policy. 
While the Australian Government plans a great reform in the provision of availability of treatment in, and financial assistance to, State public hospitals, it recognises that private hospitals controlled by religious, charitable and community organisations play an important role within the nation's health services. They provide an opportunity for freedom of choice by patients and also for the expression of high vocational motivations by those who work for them. Personally I cannot help but think of Calvary Hospital in my electorate of Barton in New South Wales, where, with loving humanity, many patients, mostly unfortunate terminal patients, are attended to irrespective of religious faith by the kind sisters of the Little Company of Mary, who also provide services at Lewisham Hospital. 
The Government endorses and will generously support the continuance of the dual public-private hospital system and will provide financial support for private hospitals and the patients they treat, so as not to restrict the autonomy of these hospitals or the services they provide. We will ensure the freedom of these hospitals. Religious, charitable and community hospitals will be able to set and control their own policies without unnecessary Government interference. I hope that will be noted. Now back to the details of how the scheme will work for patients needing hospital care. Again I quote from the White Paper. It states: 
Patients entering public hospitals will have the right of free accommodation and treatment as hospital patients . . . irrespective of their incomes. They will also be able, if they prefer, to be treated as private patients (patients who elect to receive medical treatment in hospital from their private doctors, and who will have preference in the allocation of any intermediate or private wzrd accommodation.) Private insurance funds may offer insurance tables to cover the extra costs of 'preferred' hospital accommodation. Doctors treating private patients in public or private hospitals will continue to charge on a fec-for-service basis. Their fees will be eligible for medical benefits from the Health Insurance Commission. Special arrangements to cover the costs of most types of treatment and accommodation in religious, charitable and community non-public hospitals, and which at the same time guaranteee the autonomy of these hospitals are also included in the Program. 
I continue the quote from the White Paper. It reads: 
These arrangements will give patients entering hospital a greater range of choice than they have at present. 
Yet we hear all this talk of restriction of choice. I quote again from the White Paper: 
For all other medical services anyone will be entitled to attend a doctor of his or her own choice at little or no cost. Payments will be on  a  feeforservice basis except in any cases where doctors voluntarily choose some other method of medical practice such as contract practice. 
This is a further quote from the White Paper: 
A central objective of the Program is to ensure that medical and hospital services are financed for the whole population in the fairest and most efficient way. For this reason the contribution of individuals to the Program will take the form of  a  levy of  1.35  per cent on taxable incomes. For the majority, of Australians this will mean smaller contributions than they would have to make if the existing health insurance scheme were to continue. 
The Government recognises that in Australia there is a strong desire by patients to make their own choice of doctor and, in particular, of their doctor of first contact. It must be stressed that preservation of this right has always been central to the Government's proposals, was central to the Planning Committee recommendations, and continues to be a central objective of the program set out in this paper. 
The Government has always recognised that many people prefer to pay extra for particular types of hospital accommodation and treatment and that some people may wish to insure for the full costs of any medical services they receive .... 
The primary intention of the Program is to provide complete insurance coverage against the costs of standard ward hospital treatment and an appropriate and predictable level of coverage against medical costs. This is in no way incompatible with opportunities for members of the public to purchase preferred and optional hospital and medical services. In addition to provisions for private hospital insurance there will be opportunities for people who wish to do so to take out supplementary private insurance against the portion of medical fees not covered under the Program and the costs of ancillary and allied health services. 
There is no intention to enforce uniformity on the overall hospital system, and indeed it is acknowledged that hospital services geared to locally recognised needs are desirable. 
The agreements which will be made with State Governments and non-public hospitals for hospital insurance and the payments for medical services performed in hospitals will recognise these facts. 
The new system should have great appeal to the States for it marks the acceptance of a continuing commitment by the Australian Government to finance 50 per cent of their hospitals running costs. Under the new scheme they will receive an extra $80m a year. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table from page 42 of the White Paper which shows how each of the States will be treated. 

<graphic href="086131197311121_52_0.jpg"></graphic>

 I thank the Committee. The scheme will also be of great benefit to Australians. For the first time they will all have access to completely free hospital care and treatment, and will also have a generous portion  -  $16 a day- of their hospital costs paid if they choose private ward accommodation, or private hospital care. Here I might point out that if they do choose this form of treatment the charges made by their own doctor will be covered under the medical benefits schedule. The extra charges for their preferred private treatment can be covered by private hospital insurance, the rates for which will, through Government regulations, be comparable to present private rates. I compare that $16 a day with the $2 a day paid by the previous Government towards hospitalisation in our various State hospitals. There is much more I would have liked to have said about this scheme,  Mr Chairman.  It will be a great scheme. 
Last weekend the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  uttered some rather caustic words about the Government of New South Wales. In fact he described it as the most reactionary, obstructive and discredited government in Australia. 
That is a point of view. I must confess that it did give me second thoughts because I had been inclined to give that title to the Government of Queensland. But I do not think there is very much choice as between the Government of Queensland and the Government of New South Wales. The Prime Minister went on to say that the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government was 'grudging, tardy and negative' about co-operation with the national Government. Nobody expects the State governments to be subservient to the national Government. The present national Government has no wish that the State governments should be subservient to it. I would say that this Government has done more than any other government has done in the last quarter of a century to establish more organs of co-operation and consultation not only with State governments but also with the various local interests in the community. This Government has excelled all others, in my view, in this respect in relation not only to local government but also welfare organisations, industrial groups and just about every kind of community organisation one could think of. This Government has set up permanent organisations of consultation and in many cases has endowed them with administrative functions and the wherewithal to carry out those functions. 
Last weekend an indication of the kind of reaction that we are getting from the New South Wales State Government came from the  Deputy  Leader of the New South Wales Government at Coffs Harbour. Why was it at Coffs Harbour? It was because Coffs Harbour happened to be the scene of a local government conference. The delegates that have come back from that conference at Coffs Harbour have told me that the address by  Sir Charles  Cutler, the  Deputy  Leader of the New South Wales Government, was the most insulting - they used other terms which unfortunately I cannot use here - and the most provocative as far as local government was concerned that they had heard in a long time. I can well understand that, because some years earlier I happened to attend a Teachers Federation conference in New South Wales when  Sir Charles  Cutler became the new State Minister for Education. I can remember his posture and the insulting and belligerent stance he took in relation to the professional body of teachers in the State of New South Wales. What upset  Sir Charles  Cutler at Coffs Harbour? He went up there to berate local government bodies for wanting to participate with this Government in making funds available direct to local government, to give local government direct access to the Australian Loan Council, and to give local government access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Why should this Government want to help local government? Had not local government been adequately looked after by previous Liberal-Country Party governments here in Canberra? Had not local government been looked after by the Government of New South Wales? The figures will tell their own story. 
Our predecessors here and the centralist Government of New South Wales loaded local government with all sorts of new responsibilities in respect of a whole lot of welfare duties but it gave local government very little money with which to carry out those tasks. The result has been a colossal accumulation of debt on local government. Who pays for that? It is the ratepayers. I think it takes over 50 per cent of rate revenue to pay off the interest on the tremendous accumulation of debt with which local government has been saddled over recent years. It is no wonder that  Sir Charles  Cutler had a job on his hands to explain why the Government of New South Wales, together with other Liberal-Country Party State governments, are opposed to local government representation on the Loan Council and other bodies to which this Government wants to give local government access. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  talked about the erosion of the power of State governments. What about the erosion of the power of local councils, loading them with responsibilities and denying them access to the necessary funds to enable them to carr&gt; out their duties? This Government will enhance local government. It will enhance regional organisations. It will bring the people of this community much closer to government. We will have a national policy but we will be leaving it to local government to operate in a way in which it has never had a chance to operate before. We will be leaving it to local regional bodies to carry out duties and functions on behalf of the people. 
As I said before,  Sir Charles  Cutler had such an unhappy record as Minister for 'Education in New South Wales that ultimately  Sir Robert  Askin had to remove him from that post. The relationship between the Askin Government and the teaching profession, and I would say the vast majority of parents and citizens organisations, has been soured over the years in a most unwholesome way. The Askin Government went so far as to seek the deregistration of the New South Wales Teachers Federation. The matter went to the Industrial Commission and the petition was dismissed. Consequently the New South Wales Government failed in its dedicated task of clipping the wings of that Federation. What was the Federation interested in? It was interested in the welfare of the sons and daughters of the Australian community. It was interested in the conditions in which teachers performed their jobs. It was interested in the size of classes. But this did not suit the Askin Government. Teachers made protest after protest. Ultimately when they were compelled to strike on one or two days in order to show their determination to do the best by the children for whom they were responsible, the Askin Government moved to seek the deregistration of the Federation. 
The Askin Government was so petty that it refused to continue deducting from teachers' salaries their contributions to their own professional body. How petty can you get? Honourable members will recall that it was the same Askin Government that promised, when it was trying to get into power in 1965, to take teaching out of the realm of Public Service Board control and to treat teachers as members of a really professional body by setting up an education commission. It reneged on that promise. Yet as late as 12 November, a couple of days ago,  Mr Willis  said: ''Education Commission demand - out of date.' That is the kind of reneging that he has gone on with.  Sir Robert  Askin has promised to set up some kind of tribunal to determine salaries. But he will not give members of the Federation, or any public servants, access to any such tribunal to determine working conditions. I could instance many other similar examples. It is notable that on the eve of the State election in New South Wales a new teachers' college is proposed at Mortdale, in my electorate. But who is to pay for it? 
The Commonwealth is paying for it. 
I am glad that it will be in my electorate. The local newspaper has published on its front page a photograph of  Mr Willis,  the current Minister for Education in New South Wales, and the Liberal candidate for that area standing on the site where the proposed new teachers' college will be established if final feasibility studies show it to be a viable project and if the Commonwealth Government supplies the money. The Australian Government has committed itself to this policy. The replacement of the educational dungeon, Alexander Mackie Teachers College at Paddington, which people have had to tolerate for years, by a new teachers' college has been made possible by the Australian Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that spokesmen for the Liberal and Australian Country Parties and the Australian Democratic Labor Party have decided that the answer to the present second rate pensioner medical service, which they uncritically supported during the previous Government's term of office, is to enrol pensioners in the subsidised health benefits plan? Have these spokesmen also criticised Labor's scheme on the ground of its excessive cost? Will the Minister inform the House as to the cost of enrolling pensioners and other low income groups in the subsidised health benefits plan? Will he also indicate how this would benefit these low income groups? What other groups may benefit from this arrangement? 
I rise to  suport  the Bill. It is a bit hard to know where the Opposition stands. Not very long ago in this debate I heard the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  refer to the enormous amount of money that the Government was proposing in this Bill to spend on education. We have all listened to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  saying that it is a relatively insignificant amount, that it is much less than is claimed. So what do we believe from the Opposition? The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is held in the highest respect in this Parliament and indeed throughout this country, and who unfortunately is ill in hospital, exhausted by his efforts to produce this Bill and this program for the years ahead, has categorically denied what the honourable member for Gwydir has just said. 
The Minister - his words were repeated by the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who read the second reading speech in the Minister's absence - said that in 1974-75 a total of $694m will be available for all schools in the States. That $694m includes funds that were proposed by the previous Government. The $694m is Commonwealth money. In addition we stipulated that the States were to keep up the amount of expenditure that they had been making over recent years. They were to keep up not only the amount but also the proportion of their budgets spent on education. So the $694m is not the total. Of the $694m which the Australian Government will spend in 1974-75 on primary and secondary education, not to talk about the other segments of education, $468.5m will be spent directly as a result of the Karmel Committee's report - not $190m-odd, as the former Minister, the honourable member for Gwydir, said. An amount of $468.5m will be spent by the Australian Government over and above what the Government of which he was a member proposed to spend before it went out of office. 
The honourable member also returned to the old bogy of the A category schools. I thought that the earlier speakers had given that story away. I had been led to believe by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Opposition spokesman in this House on education, that the Opposition was in a more conciliatory mood. The honourable member for Wannon had been rather conciliatory except right at the end of his speech, when he returned to the old bogy of per capita grants. These were voted out by the Australian people on 2 December 1972, but he keeps coming back to them. The honourable member for Gwydir reinforced that by referring to category A schools. What do the category A schools represent? They represent 10 per cent of all students in nonsystemic private schools, not counting the vast number of private school children who go to parish schools. They represent the elite, if you like. Those category A schools represent 6 per cent of all private schools. 
This is the burden of the honourable member's story. He is talking about 6 per cent of the schools. He is talking about 5.5 per cent of all children who attend non-government schools - not 5.5 per cent of all children in Australia, lt is this same 5.5 per cent of non-government school children whose parents are able to claim $400 a year for each child in taxation rebates. It is these same children who over the years have been winning nearly all the scholarships at the higher secondary level. It is these same children who have been winning most of the tertiary scholarships and going on to universities, colleges of advanced education and institutes of technology. They have had those privileges, and this is the preoccupation still of the Country Party at least, despite all the evidence of the legacy we have received. 
They do not get $400. Parents are allowed to deduct $400 from their taxable income for each child. The amount that all parents who are able to claim $150 or more get back in taxation rebates is $55m a year. So do not let them cry that they have been denied by this Government. The rumour went around that we were to cancel out the rebate. We did not. We still allow it. Maybe we ought to be criticised by some people for it, but we did not discontinue the allowance; we kept to it. In the future the same category of children will probably go on winning a disproportionately higher number of secondary scholarships and a disproportionately higher number of tertiary scholarships that will give them free education under the Labor Party program. Every child who gets into a tertiary institution as from 1 January next year will get a free education. If children are eligible for it under the means test they will get a living allowance to boot. The elite group will get $55m in tax rebates. This Bill provides an extra $50m for disadvantaged children. So let us get things in perspective. That is what the honourable member for Wannon is inviting us to do. 
The other criticism that came from the honourable member for Wannon was about the composition of the Australian Schools Commission. He suggested that it ought to be a representative Commission. At one stage we entertained that thought ourselves. It is not an open and shut case; I will grant him that. But we came down in the long run in favour of a selected commission for much the same reasons as those which the Karmel Committee report gave far having a selected commission rather than having nominees. Paragraph 13.6 of the Karmel Committee's report, which is contained in the book called 'Schools in Australia', states: 
In submissions to and discussions with the Committee, the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations argued strongly for the right to nominate representatives as members of the Commission. The Committee- 
That means the Karmel Committee - feels that the Commission should be able to conduct its proceedings on the merits of the business before it, with its members not bound to any particular point of view on specific questions. This does not mean that the Commission should be insensitive to widely held views in the community nor that the membership should not display a range of experience and attitudes, but it does mean that individual members- 
I ask honourable members to note that - should be free from the responsibilities of representing constituent bodies. Moreover, the number of organisations that might claim representation is large, so that a Commission based on the principle of direct representation would become unwieldy and inhibited in its capacity to make decisions. If teacher and parent organisations, as such, are to be involved in the work of the Commission, an appropriate place might be rather at the Regional Board level. 
That is exactly what the Government decided to do. When we were trying to form our own policy before we set up the Karmel Committee, we looked at what other bodies would claim rightful representation on the representative Commission. I think we ended up with at least 45 people being on that commission. Can anyone imagine a commission of that size being able to get down to work? It would be just impracticable. I will not reply to the honourable member for Wannon, who is seeking to interject, because my time is extremely limited and I have much to say. 
It has been stated that the report was made in haste. It had to be made in haste, and in a minute I will tell the House why. It was not made quite as hastily as it appears because the Interim Committee already had available to it as did the former Minister, the honourable member for Wannon, the findings of the Australian Education Council in its Nation Wide Survey of Educational Needs for Australian Schools. The Committee had all that information. It had the information about handicapped children that was provided by a special Senate committee, which information lay idle for 1*8 months and about which the former Liberal-Country Party Government did nothing. 
What is the legacy that we inherited? I will quote what the Minister had to say, in part, in regard to the background of what we inherited before we set up the Interim Committee. He said: 
There were disadvantaged schools, especially in inner areas of great cities. Teacher education left much to be desired. The education of handicapped children was characterised by omissions to meet need which bordered upon the callous. Migrant education was profoundly unsatisfactory. Some States had no schemes for the assistance of isolated children worthy of the name of assistance. Primary school libraries were characterised by general neglect. 
I interpolate there to say that they received nothing. Every primary school I visited in my electorate and in other electorates hammered me with the question: 'Why is it that the Government in Canberra gives grants for secondary school libraries but gives nothing for primary school libraries?'. Every teacher worth his salt and every informed parent knows that library habits are first established in the primary school. That is where they are developed. The Minister went on to say: 
Buildings, playground space, physical education facilities and the capacity to employ teachers were generally defective. Clerical and ancillary assistance in schools were woefully inadequate. A scheme existed through the Australian Department of Social Security to assist the education of handicapped children by private charities, but not in State schools. Knowledge of _ the medical, psychological and physical characteristics of young children, and their home environments, was a closed book to the first teachers enrolling them at school. Disadvantaged children and handicapped children suffered greatly in this situation. 
This is the education legacy that we inherited when we became the Government in late 1972. 
This Bill is not the culmination of an education study. It is significant as it is the mere beginning of a new deal in education. This Bill provides not for the end product but rather some of the means by which education can be changed markedly in quality, quantity and distribution. All our talk of millions of extra dollars should not be allowed to hide the fact that what we are really aiming at is a cultural, social and economic revolution in our society with a new respect for the rights of every individual, not just an elite, to have the opportunity of living a personally satisfying life as a member of a genuinely democratic community. The implications of such a generalised statement are many and they are either explicitly stated or clearly implied in the Bill, which itself reflects so faithfully much of what is contained in the Karmel report. 
Some of these implications and assumptions are: Firstly, the need for continuing research not just for today, tomorrow, this year, this period of 6 months or this period of 2 years - for the values, attitudes, abilities, appreciations and tastes that might deserve to be cultivated in our education systems. I emphasise the word systems'. These in turn form part of the agencies that mould the continually changing society in which we live. We are reminded - and I want to remind the House - that the school is not the only agency in the community that helps to educate our children. Think of the media and the opportunities it has, and think of the opportunities that it foregoes. 
The second assumption I would refer to is that both this research and the ongoing educational programs that flow from it should invoke the views and activities of as many interested persons as possible; hence the various advisory committees which will be established to help the Commission and the Government in its program. Diversity of approach, experimentation and creativeness rather than uniformity and deadening conformity should, we believe, inspire our educational efforts. The Bill strongly subsidises this approach at all levels. I will not go through all the statistics that have been mentioned because everybody can see the way in which we are going to help the education program in Australia. It needs to be more emphatically recognised - I really want to drive this home if I can - that children are born into a wide range of environmental circumstances. Socially, culturally, economically, intellectually, physically and in terms of motivation their inheritance is different. 
The assumptions in the Bill are that all children, and indeed all persons, should have the opportunity to develop their own particular socially desirable talents to their fullest capacity. For far too long far too many have been condemned to live out their lives according to the accidental limitations of their own birthright. For too long society has lavished its rewards on those who were born lucky. This Bill puts new emphasis on society's obligation to provide compensation for the very great many who were born not so lucky. In addition to the greatly increased capital, recurrent and library grants which will apply to almost all students, there will be extra millions of dollars in each of these and other aspects of education for those in disadvantaged schools - children of lower income families, many migrants with low incomes and language and social adjustment problems, Aborigines and children living in isolated areas. 
Likewise, the Bill will give high priority to redressing one of our most shameful legacies of almost a quarter of a century of conservative government - the wholesale neglect of those who are physically, mentally and emotionally handicapped and the great many, often undetected until it is almost too late, who have other kinds of special learning difficulties which interfere with their educational progress, for example, special reading difficulties which were referred to earlier. The Bill sets out to help all these people Instead of their being disadvantaged they will be over-compensated under a Labor government. If that is socialism, I accept the label. 
Having said that, one has also to recognise how very much the advancement of society in all its aspects is dependent on the comparatively few very bright people in the community. The geniuses who advance the quality of our living by their wonderful inventions, their outstanding cultural talents and their other distinctive creative skills are indede comparatively few in number. It is not only in their personal interest but to society's benefit that they, too, be identified and given special opportunities in their early years of schooling, and this enlightened Bill aims to do just that. 
Another assumption contained in the Bill that flows directly from what I have said is that teaching is to be encouraged to reach an increasingly higher professional status. This will be reflected, not only in generally higher initial training qualifications but also in far greater access to in-service training courses provided by employing authorities in some cases, by other outside bodies in other instances such as universities, colleges of advanced education and the like and, very importantly, by the teachers' own professional organisations in other circumstances. Notably, the Commonwealth is prepared to help finance the professional teaching organisations to establish and maintain their own voluntary in-service professional growth. I cannot spell out all of the implications of this Bill. I have not relied on statistics. I can only say that this is a monumental educational effort. The Minister, the committee that has helped him and all the other bodies in the community which made submissions to that committee, deserve their proper recognition at this time. 

 - Mr Chairman, I join with the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in opposing the propositions put forward by the Opposition. It is somewhat hypocritical of the Opposition to be trying to force these kinds of amendments on the Government. The Government is quite serious about its intention to have the membership of the Australian Schools Commission appointed in the way in which it has decided. The Minister for Education, on behalf of the Government, will be responsible for making the appointments to the Australian Schools Commission. Such a procedure is not unique, as members of the Opposition well know. They will recall that the membership of the Australian Universities Commission was appointed by the Minister. They know very well that the membership of the Colleges of Advanced Education Committee was also appointed and not selected. As a matter of fact, the Parliamentary Library did a little bit of research on this matter for me before it came on for debate. I quote from as far back as Parliamentary Paper No. 77 of 1969, which is entitled 'Appendix A - Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education and its Sub-committees Terms of Reference and Membership'. One of the paragraphs of that document states: 
The Committee will consist of a full time chairman and not more than 7 part time members, al' appointed initially for approximately 3 years. Executive and administrative support for the Committee will be provided within the Education division of the Prime Minister's Department. Members will be appointed by the Minister. 
That document related to the Advisory Committee on Advanced Education and its subcommittees. It went on to allow the Minister to appoint the sub-committees as well. Another example is the Comonwealth Secondary Schools Libraries Committee, which has dealt with quite a number of schools. Another document I have with me reads: 
The Commonwealth Secondary Schools Libraries Committee was appointed by the Minister for Education and Science to advise him on the conditions and standards necessary for the effective development of the new program in relation to the independent schools. 
Once again the personnel are in a sense representative, depending upon the way in which one defines the term 'representative', of interested people. They did not have to be actually nominated by various interested bodies. They were, in fact, people who were representative in the sense that they had contacts with a variety of the interests that were being served by the Committee. Another example - I warn honourable members opposite that this is only a very small selection - is the national steering committee for promotion of the training function in industry and commerce, which was set up back in, I think, 1970. Whilst it had on it representatives - in inverted commas - of national employer organisations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Commonwealth Department of Education, the State Department of Labour and State technical education authorities, which had been invited to nominate members to the Committee, the members were appointed as individuals and not as representatives. I could continue with similar illustrations. 
In his speech a while ago the Acting Minister reminded us that the Australian Educational Council - I am quoting the Acting Minister now - was not consulted before its suggested role was incorporated into the relevant amendments moved by the Opposition Parties in the Senate and that a majority of the members of the Council did not wish it to make nominations to the Commission. Honourable members opposite are trying to push onto the Commission people who have indicated that they have no wish to nominate for it. The Government has spoken to the people who have been breathing down the necks of honourable members opposite over the last few weeks and who have forced them to take a much more conciliatory attitude to this Bill by threatening that dire political consequences will follow if they do not allow this Bill to be passed by this Parliament. I have in my hand a letter from the Executive Officer of the Australian Council of State School Organisations to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  which reads: 
The Australian Council of State School Organisations wishes to express to you our satisfaction with the inclusion in the reconstructed Committee of the Australian Schools Commission of both a State school parent and a teacher. 
The Organisation did not go on to demand that it be permitted to nominate a person. The Government has talked to these people about this matter. Some of them have expressed a desire to be allowed to nominate a panel. In some cases the Government consulted them informally. One does not go around picking the names of these people out of the air. One has to take advice. But the Minister and the Government have to accept responsibility for what happens. I remind honourable members that at least once every 3 years the Minister and the Government have to face the people of Australia and be responsible to them for all of their activities, including the selection of the people who are going to guide them in their education policy. 
There have been further eulogistic remarks in support of the Bill from the New South Wales Federation of Infants School Clubs, the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales and the New South Wales Teachers Federation. I think the Australian Teachers Federation also has expressed its admiration for the Bill. It has not made any great hue and cry about the type of Commission the Government has decided to appoint. In fact, the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation is one of the persons to be appointed by the Government as a member of the Commission. I can quote further from newspaper articles in support of the Government's proposals. For instance, one entitled 'Big Catholic Parent Group Backs Minister' states: 
Australia's biggest Catholic parents' organisation today publicly dissociated itself from criticism of the Karmel report made by some independent schools. 
Some of the spokesmen who honourable members opposite were quoting in this chamber as being very eminent authorities did not represent anything like a fraction of the Catholic schools. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Secondary Industry. I ask him whether his attention has been drawn to an article in the 'Canberra Times' of 29 November 1973 which states: 
A marked increase in the inventiveness of Australians has been reported by the Patent Office  . . A considerable increase in the number of applications to the Patent Office now make it the ninth-busiest in the world. 
I ask: What initiatives are being undertaken by this Government to foster the natural inventiveness of the Australian community and to ensure that all Australians benefit from inventions which are the result of this Australian characteristic? 
There seems to be a fair amount of agreement about the Bill now before us and about the general proposition that an inadequate sum of national resources is being devoted to research in all its different applications, fundamental research as well as applied research. I have a personal and special interest in the Bill and, before I allude to it, I remind the House that the main aim of the existing Act, namely, the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act, is to encourage companies to carry out worthwhile industrial research and development. Of course, that Act deals not only with research development but also with the application and use of innovations for the creation of new products and the devising of new techniques, all of which are part and parcel of the objects of the legislation. 
The Bill amends the Act in two main ways. First, it limits the amount of financial grant payable under the selective grant provisions of the Act. Secondly, the Bill extends grants to companies whose research is not necessarily supervised by persons holding professional research qualifications. I remember when the Act came into being. I remember speaking to the Bill at that time, and I expressed the view then that many industrialists and people engaged in commerce, although not holding high academic qualifications, by virtue of their experience - some people call it the university of personal experience - were able to bring a great deal of creativeness to the field in which they operated. 
I am pleased to see that the Bill recognises that, therefore, it is no longer necessary for a grant to be given to a company in which the research is presided over by a person not necessarily holding high professional qualifications. This provision will afford many opportunities to persons of skill and successful experience. I was impressed by some of the remarks made by the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in his second reading explanation. He said that unfortunately we were one of the countries that did not spend much on research; in fact, most of it went to a few companies in the nation. I think the Minister drew our attention to the fact that most of the firms in Australia are what I categorise is being small. Over 93 per cent, I think the Minister said, of manufacturing establishments operating at the end of June 1969 employed fewer than 100 persons, and large firms did not necessarily need Gov ernment support but had resources of their own. 
However, in 1972-73, of the S14m allocated in grant payments, about 2 per cent of the companies were recipients of the grant. Therefore, most of the money was spent on a very small proportion of the firms operating in Australia. The Bill extends that and places limitations .on the size of grants, for specific purposes, that can be made to the larger companies in the community. The Bill is an interim measure for which I am glad. I am taking the advantage of this opportunity to suggest not only that we should be occupied with helping firms with research, but also that considerably more should be done to help individuals. I know that under other legislation, in education and science and various other fields, we make grants to individuals or to groups of individuals for specific approved purposes. I should like to see this extended in ways I will suggest in a moment. 
Before I go on to refer to that matter, my attention has been drawn to a White Paper put out by the Science and Technology Agency of Japan which I understand is part of the Japanese Prime Minister's office. To give some idea of the importance Japan places upon the benefits of research carried out by other people, I understand that up to the end of the fiscal year, which is to the end of March 1973, the Japanese paid out $3 84m in imported technology. The technology to which I refer is the purchase of licences to use overseas patents, ideas and inventions. It is one of the reasons - not the sole reason, by any meanswhy Japan has made the great material progress that it has. It has been prepared to spend money to buy the intelligence and the creativeness produced by other countries. In turn, as against the $384m paid for imported technology to which I have just referred, Japan received only $50m by selling to other countries the rights for its own ideas. It might be well for us to consider that invention is an exportable commodity. Besides being of great use to ourselves in its direct application in our own country, it is an exportable commodity. There is a lot of money to be made by countries which are able to patent inventions and then sell the patent rights, perhaps to other countries, apart from selling goods that they might produce as a result of that research. 
My attention has been drawn again to one or two quite good inventions of our own which have been instrumental in producing income for this country. One of them was the atomic absorption spectrophotometer which was produced by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to analyse chemicals. I understand that this invention has brought In nearly $lm, mainly from overseas. Another example is the invention patented by the Defence Standards Laboratories relating to a part of the Xerox copying equipment. I think most people would be pretty -familiar with that. Actually, its application is not only to Xerox equipment but also to similar types of equipment. This again, has brought in quite a few hundreds of thousands of dollars by way of patent rights or royalties, as they might be termed. 
A lot of people are well aware of the Sarich engine that is undergoing trials. This engine has tremendous promise. It won the inventors award, I think, a year or two ago. Ralph Sarich of Perth, Western Australia, invented a machine which, I understand, has tremendous potential. I think this invention might be one in which the Australian Industry Development Corporation might well become interested. I certainly know that a number of Australian and overseas firms are very interested in the engine. Personally, I hope that Australia produces the engine invented by  Mr Sarich  and will be able to reap much greater rewards than would be received by merely selling the patent rights to other countries. In 1972-73, Australia paid out $75m in royalties, copyrights patents and technical service charges. So, this is a pretty big item. We paid out $75m for the use of other people's ideas. I suggest that every encouragement should be given in Australia to inventors. I stress again that this encouragement should not necessarily be given only to companies but also to individuals. 
That brings me to a matter that is relevant to myself and to my electorate. Some years ago, in about 1959, a very ordinary citizen whom I knew - he would not mind my saying that; he is just a tradesman - by the name of  Mr Stan  Shrivel! who lived in Ramsgate in my electorate and who was very interested in inventions became associated with a  Mr Charles  Smith. They had the idea of starting an inventors association. In my wildest imagination, I did not expect that they would ever arrive at the situation they have reached. They, together with other people, have been able to develop a national organisation in this country, the Inventors Association of Australia Limited. 
They are now able to put out a booklet and they have had all kinds of advice given to them by all kinds of instrumentalities, both public and private. They have gone a long way to getting Australians - not only individual Australians but also Australian companies - interested in the kinds of Inventions that can be produced here in Australia. I pay a tribute to those people for producing the kind of organisation they have produced. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  met them in Canberra not many months ago while he was still the Minister for Secondary Industry and he gave them great encouragement as to what this Government would do to help them. I know that the previous Government made a once for all grant of $12,000 to the Association but the present Government is even more disposed to help the Association. From what  Dr Cairns  went on record as saying to these people, they can be very encouraged by the help they will receive from this Government. 
It was my pleasure - this matter was referred to in an answer to a question directed to the present Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  this morning-tc introduce a deputation from the Association to the Minister last week made up of the national  president, Mr Smith,  and the secretary,  Mr Shrivell,  plus 2 representatives from Victoria. The Minister also gave them a very encouraging hearing and he asked them to submit their ideas to him. I am quite confident, being a party to the discussions, that the Minister was just as impressed as was his immediate predecessor,  Dr Cairns.  I am sure that that organisation can look forward with a great deal of confidence to what this Government will do to help invention in Australia. 
There are possibly many people listening to me at the moment - I know that there are vast numbers not listening to me - who are aware of the inventors program telecast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It has been my misfortune, because of my public duties to have seen that program only once but I understand it is one of the most highly rated programs not only on the ABC but also among other television stations throughout Australia. The Inventors Association to which I have referred was instrumental in getting the ABC interested in this program. I understand that in the first place the ABC had a lot of misgivings about producing such a program but it did and it has been rewarded by the tremendous viewing audience that the program has attracted. 
I noticed over the weekend a report that a school teacher has invented a fabulous hair restorer. I would imagine there would be a good few people around the place who would be interested in such an invention. It was referred to as a hair restorer; it did not say anything about colourisation of hair. As a prematurely grey person I could have been interested if they had come up with that. But I understand that the AIDC is contemplating backing this invention, which could be worth millions of dollars. With all the prematurely bald people around the world today, this invention has a tremendous market available to it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! Is that a reflection on the Chair? 
The Chair might maintain a continuing interest in this problem. I recommend the invention to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have with me a typical invention. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  was talking this morning about swimming and lifesaving. I have the product of one of the members of the Inventors Association. It is a simple little thing that has been called the quick throw rescue line. I can grab it with one hand. 
No, I am not on television; what a pity. I could rescue the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  from here if there was a gulf of water between us. The line has a ball on it. This device is so simple it is a wonder that it has not occurred to people before. By taking 3 feet of the cord, swinging it around and then throwing it like a fishing line out into the water it will reach a distance of about 90 feet. This device could have saved the lives of 3 young children of a family a week or two ago. They were desperately looking for someone to throw them something to grasp. 
We are now in the swimming season. I understand this product has been approved by the New South Wales Rescue Squad, the Flood Relief Rescue Organisation, which is a branch of the Civilian Defence Department - by the way, I am not getting any commission for advertising this invention, if anyone has any thoughts that way - and the Power Boat Surflifesaving Association of Australia. It has been shown on 'The Inventors' program on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This device could possibly save the lives of thousands of people not only in Australia but around the world. I believe this invention is quite marketable and will cost about $7 or $8. Unfortunately it bears a sales tax of IS per cent. I intend having a word with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  about that matter. I think the sales tax could be removed. 
This is just one of the simple inventions that I could bring into the House. There are many creative people in our community. They are not companies; they are individuals and the Government could do a lot to support them. It is not just a case of handouts of cash. It is a case also of giving these people advice, legal advice, such as how to protect their patent when they get it. They should be given advisory services. They receive a lot of this help through their own organisation, the Inventors Association of Australia Limited. That organisation is very ready to give advice and it has had the co-operation of the Patent Trade Marks and Designs Office in this matter. The inventors have received advice from companies such as John Lysaght (Aust) Pty Limited. Lysaghts is a big private company which makes an award each year. I believe it is called the 'Lysaght Award'. There is encouragement of that kind. 
Without taking up much more time  -  I notice I have very little left - I should like to say that there is much creativeness in Australia. I do not know whether we have proportionately more creative people in Australia than other countries have, but we certainly have our share. There is no reason why Australia should lag behind in the provision of encouragement, financial and otherwise, to help promote research and its application in Australia in its various forms. I support the Bill. 
In the few moments available to me may I say that I did not intend to speak in this debate but I have risen because the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who preceded me, made a few remarks which, if he does not know it, were quite out of date. The idea that hospitals today are divided into public, intermediate and private wards is just a lot of nonsense. The great public hospitals of this countryunluckily I had an experience of this earlier in this year - no longer divide patients into wards in that way at all. In fact, if a person is suffering from a certain complaint, that person goes into the section of the hospital devoted to treating that complaint. Whether one is a public, intermediate or private ward patient, one is likely to be among patients who have contributed for a different category or classification. 
The situation at the moment is that a patient is classified as a public, intermediate or private ward patient according to his or her means only. A patient will be given private ward accommodation if his medical condition so requires, whether he is classified as a private, intermediate or public ward patient. This is the experience that I had. In the private ward adjoining me was a pensioner. I understand that this has become the practice all over Australia today in the advanced public hospitals. The patients in these hospitals are not classified according to ward standards, but rather according to their illness. If there are people who have a prior claim 'because of their illness- 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that according to very recent reports the Minister has been pressed by major airlines to lift the curfew on flights into and out of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport with the proposed introduction of wide-bodied jet air bases? Will the Minister give an unequivocal assurance that the curfew will be retained at the unprecedentedly high level that his operated since the Labor Government came to power a year ago? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to newspaper reports of the extremely costly congestion on Sydney's waterfront? Is it a fact that often it takes twice as long for goods to be discharged from the wharf as it takes to ship them from distant overseas ports? Is he aware that these reports confirm observations made by honourable members on both sides of this Parliament who recently made a tour of inspection of the many antiquated berthage and dock facilities in Sydney Harbour? Finally, can he say what prospects exist for early relief of this unfortunate condition and what part, if any, the Commonwealth has in the proposed development of the Botany Bay port? 
I am pleased to note that the Opposition is supporting this Bill. It is a Bill, of course, to reimburse the States for the abolition of fees. The Australian Government, in the first 6 months of this year, will pay $10,268,000 to the States for this purpose. As the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  quite rightly said in his second-reading speech, this is a further element in the Australian Government's plan to make access to all post-secondary education available to people irrespective of their means. They will have access according to merit and not according to wealth, as was all too much the tendency under the administration of previous governments. 
As the public at large, particularly the students and parents of students, will be well aware at present, students are enjoying tuitionfree access to universities and to colleges of advanced education. This concession does not apply only to those students who are entering those institutions at present but also to the students who are proceeding through their courses. I met such a student not long ago and he expressed to me his delight that the Government had introduced this measure because it would save him, as a fourth year medical student working part time at night, approximately S600 to $650 in enrolment fees at the university. 
I referred earlier in my remarks to the reimbursement of $10,268,000. That amount has been allocated for the 6-month period until the end of this financial year. At present an inquiry is being conducted into technical and further education. The correct title of that inquiry is the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education, sometimes referred to as the Kangan inquiry, named after the very important chairman of the Committee. My hope is that the Kangan Committee report and the Government's consideration of it will do for technical education what the celebrated 
Karmel Committee report, and the Government's acceptance of it, did for primary and secondary education in Australia. 
Technical education certainly needs a new deal. I will refer to a few figures a little later on to back up my statement. For far too long technical education has been the Cinderella of education in this country, although it is probably running neck and neck in that regard with pre-school education in some States of Australia, notably New South Wales, which is the State from which I come. I only hope that when the Kangan Committee does report it will make some reference in its report to teacher education in the field of technical education. A couple of years ago a Senate committee reported on teacher education. One of the recommendations it made was that there should be at least one technical teacher educational institution in every State of Australia. That has not happened. I think there is such an institution in Victoria. But there certainly is not one in New South Wales, which is where the more numerous numbers of teachers and students in technical education are to be found. 
The training of teachers for technical education in New South Wales is carried out by lecturers from the Sydney Teachers College whose prime purpose it is to train teachers for primary and secondary schools. Technical education has had to take a back seat in this regard. There are probably nearly half a million students in technical education institutions throughout Australia. I think a lot of people overlook the fact that, of all the forms of post-secondary education, technical education has by far the greatest number of enrolments. There were 400,000 enrolments in about 1968. So I think it could be confidently estimated that the figure will be near the half million mark by now. Technical education is important not only because of the number of students involved in it but also because of the range of courses provided. 
One of the things those honourable members opposite who have stood up in this House in the last week or two and talked about inflation and the causes of inflation have to remember is that technical education has not been allowed to play its part in the economy of this country. Ignoring the fact that it also plays an important part in the personal growth of the individual, technical education has not been allowed to play its part in the providing of the skills that are now in short supply. I think nobody needs to be reminded of the shortages at present of just about every kind of skill - of manual skills, of technical skills of various kinds, of commercial skills and so on - that is provided for in technical education. A lot of the shortage of housing and of the delays in building projects in this country at present is attributable to the shortage of all kinds of people who are skilled in the building trades. The same applies to the engineering trades. It is all very well for us to provide for the training of professional people at universities and colleges of advanced education. Technologists are very important. But their effectiveness is retarded insofar as they do not have the important backup of tradesmen and technicians. That is one of the great shortcomings of our economy today. It is one of the difficulties with which the Government is confronted. 
The measure before us today, which seeks to provide SI Om for technical education, might seem to be fairly insignificant because of the amount involved; yet not so long ago - in the last few years of the term of office of the previous Government - the provision of $10m in a year to technical education was regarded as being something of an event. The expenditure of $10m on technical education ranks pretty lowly as far as expenditure by the Government in other areas is concerned. But it must be remembered that this is purely an interim measure. The Government is awaiting the bringing down of the Kangan Committee report in about a month or two before it takes any really decisive action a far as technical education is concerned. 
The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is, of course, not solely responsible for the advances that have been made in this field. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has also been very busy trying to catch up not only on the initial training of technical people but also on the providing of retraining for those people whose jobs have become obsolete or are updated from time to time. It is very good to know that 2 very able Ministers are interested in this subject. The Minister for Education and the Minister for Labour are both dedicated to the task of trying to catch up on the woeful backlog in trained technicians and tradesmen in our society. 
Again I point out that I do not want to give the impression that I am only concerned about the importance of such people to the economy. Technical education, properly conducted, ought to provide just as fruitful a source of personal development and humanitarian development for the individual as do other forms of education. That is why people on both sides of this House have recognised the importance of humanitarian and liberal studies going side by side with technical education in manual skills and the other kinds of skills that are associated with the training of tradesmen and technicians. Other countries recognised long ago the importance of tradesmen and technicians. Notable among those countries are Great Britain, Germany and Japan. Despite whatever temporary difficulties there may be in Great Britain, all those countries have recognised the importance of this field of training. 
I was encouraged to note the upsurge this year in the number of enrolments for apprenticeships in Australia. I understand that there has been quite a considerable growth in this respect in all States of Australia. Just as a sample, I made an inquiry at the weekend of a very large technical college that is located in my electorate - the St George Technical College - in Sydney. I understand that the total number of students enrolled at the St George Technical College has increased from 5,685 last year to 6,052 this year and that the number enrolled in trade courses has increased from 1,319 last year to 1,602 this year. That would represent a fairly large percentage increase. If that sort of percentage increase were spread throughout the country we would ultimately catch up on the technology backlog to which I have referred. I asked the St George Technical College to make an estimate of the financial benefit this measure would be to the students and the employers who, in many cases, pay the fees of their apprentices. To be more precise I asked the St George Technical College what this measure would mean in monetary terms to the people who live in the St George area, mindful of the fact that some students cannot be trained at the local college and have to go to another college. The estimate, which was a conservative one, was that it would be of the order of half a million dollars. This measure, temporary as it is and not being of tremendous significance in the mind of the Government, will represent a saving of half a million dollars to students or their employers in one area of Sydney alone, that is, the St George area. 
There are, of course, other forms of encouragement provided by the Government, including the national apprenticeship assistance scheme. Due to the commendable drive of the Minister for Labour there has been considerable recognition of the importance of technical training and retraining to productivity - a word that 1 have heard mentioned many times in this House recently. The Government's opponents say that if the Government wants to have a decent welfare state it will have to encourage increased productivity. We all recognise that. It is of no use using a printing press as that would only excite or promote inflation. But if we have increased productivity we will be able to afford to have more of the goods and services the community needs. It is also the job of this Government to ensure that the goods which are produced and the services which are provided are properly distributed within the community, and that is a very important hallmark of this Government as compared with its predecessors. 
I understand it was recently reported that the scheme introduced by the Minister for Labour had made apprenticeships much more popular than they were previously, particularly in country areas but also in the cities. The Minister has provided encouragement to employers by way of subsidies to take on extra apprentices. The Minister also has provided subsidies for country apprentices who have to travel to the city or to some other urban area so that they can undertake their training. I understand that the employers of some 66 per cent of the total estimated first year country apprenticeship population are now claiming the subsidies to which I have just referred. In the previous year only 51 per cent of those employers claimed these subsidies. So employers in country areas are responding; they are taking on increased numbers of apprentices. 
Likewise, there has been a very beneficial, if somewhat belated, response in the metropolitan areas to this offer of assistance by way of a subsidy. Employers in the metropolitan areas also are now getting the benefit of the assistance. Instead of the employers having to pay fees to send apprentices to technical colleges, the fees will now be paid for them by the Government. Although I indicated that this assistance would be provided only until June, I expect that after the Kangan Committee report is presented a vastly expanded program will be introduced, but there will still be a remission of these fees. No fees will be paid either by students or employers for approved courses at technical colleges. 
For the first time in 9 years all States and Territories indicated for the year 1972-1973 increased apprenticeship intakes over the preceding year. Preliminary indications for the first 6 months of this satistical year, that is, from July 1973 to December 1973 are that it should be a record year for apprenticeship intakes. These are all very good things. If one needs to be reminded of the importance of apprentices, technicians and trade training one only has to look at an article in the 'Australian' of 5 October last year. It refers to the remarks of  Mr F.  X. Quinn, the  President  of the Victorian Buildings Societies Association. He warned of a possible increase in the number of incompetent builders because of the heavy demand for new houses and the short supply of labour. Of course, he was referring to skilled and semiskilled labour. According to the article he also claimed that the lack of apprentices was adding up to 3 months to the time it took to build a house. Then the article continues: 
Eight years ago, it took three or four months to build a house. It now takes up to eight months and within two years the building time could be as long as twelve months',  Mr Quinn  said. 
I am sure that  Mr Quinn  would be one of those people who are now applauding the efforts of the Minister for Education who is sitting at the table and the Minister for Labour for recognising at last the tremendously important part that technical education plays in the supply of skilled labour in Australia. It is not only the time that it takes to build houses and other kinds of constructions that matters; it is also the quality of the work that is done. Much of the construction of shoddy houses and home units in respect of which I hear complaints and in respect of which complaints are reported to consumer affairs bureaus in the various States derives from the fact that technical education has been so badly neglected in the past. 
If one wants any indication of how technical education was neglected in the past one recalls that very belatedly, at the beginning of the 1972-73 financial year, the previous Government started to stir itself  ar-d  it appropriated S2,370,000 for apprenticeship training. At the end of the financial year, S 1 , 1 60,000-odd of that amount was not spent, simply because there had not been the necessary preparation of teachers and the provision of suitable sites in which to train people. Similarly, at the beginning of the 1972-73 financial year an appropriation of $338,000 was made for training for industry and commerce, but at the end of the financial year $246,000-odd 0f that amount was unspent. This happened in a country that is starved of tradesmen and technicians. We, as a Government, have inherited that starvation state as far as tradesmen and technicians are concerned. 
The honourable member relies on importing somebody else's brains because he did not give an opportunity to the people in our own community. I suggest that that is a poor substitute. The previous Government did stir itself when an election was pending, but at the end of the 1972-73 financial year, 42 per cent of the money appropriated in the 2 categories that I have just mentioned was unspent because of inadequate preparation for the task that was so belatedly recognised. 
This Bill, along with other Bills, will abolish fees in post-secondary education. It is a very laudable Bill, but it is only the precursor of something that I expect to be much more important, which the Minister will deal with in the later part of this year. I highly commend the Bill to the House. 
Can the Prime Minister indicate the nature of the reported renewed offer by the New South Wales Government to enter into negotiations with the Australian Government with a view to handing over temporarily State powers to control prices and incomes? If such an offer has been made, does it represent the prospect of a real breakthrough in the task of combatting inflation? Has any similar offer been made by the other populous State, Victoria? 
The last 15 months have been a time of great activity in repatriation. Many people will be aware of the numerous improvements that the Government has introduced since it came to office. The fact that it has been able to achieve so much in such a short time is due in no small way to the support and assistance provided by ex-servicemen's organisations. It is well for us to remember that Australians fought in the Boer War, the First War and the Second World War, in Korea, in the Malaysian emergency and in Vietnam. There are nearly 800,000 veterans of these campaigns in Australia today and over 210,000 of them are receiving compensation for disabilities that are related to their war service. There are also many widows, mothers, sons and daughters of those who made the supreme sacrifice. It was for the disabled and for the families of those who died that the repatriation system was created over 50 years ago. 
I do not want to delay the Bill but I want to remind the House of a few things, the most important being the change that the Government has introduced in the extension of repatriation benefits to the regular peace time forces and to national servicemen. We recognise that the range of activities and location of the regulars and national servicemen often mean that they are exposed to potential personal injury not ordinarily encountered in civilian occupations. The legislation also provides an important improvement in the conditions for service in Australia's defence forces and will help to ensure that a Service career holds as many advantages and attractions as possible to young men and women. Repatriation benefits will be available to regulars and national servicemen broadly on the same basis as for ex-servicemen who served only in Australia during the Second World War, for incapacity or death arising out of or attributable to service on or after 7 December 1972. The Government has extended this benefit to all of these kinds of servicemen, not only to ex-servicemen. The ex-servicemen and women are in effect given concurrent status as members of the forces under the Repatriation Act and as employees under the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act. Any entitlement under one Act is offset against that acquired under the other, so that the person is at all times eligible for the maximum benefits available under either Act. 
The Repatriation Department has a network of modern and sophisticated treatment facilities throughout Australia. The repatriation hospitals and other institutions provide a very high standard of care which is at least equivalent to and often exceeds that which is available elsewhere in the community. The Government is concerned to have these extensive - and expensive - facilities used to their maximum capacity. This would also have the effect of helping to relieve the general shortage of such facilities in the community. In moving quickly to widen the availability of medical treatment under repatriation, the Government has been able to achieve both these aims. Veterans of the Boer War and the 1914-18 War now receive free treatment for all disabilities whether related to war service or not. The Returned Services League and other organisations have been asking for this for yeans. The full range of repatriation treatment facilities, including general practitioner services, out-patient and in-patient treatment, specialist services and the supply of artificial aids and appliances are available to these veterans. Free treatment for malignant cancer is also available to ex-servicemen and women who served in a theatre of war. I hope that it will not be too long before we will be able to take the further step of making cancer an automatic war caused disability. 
The Government has also recognised that, whenever there is spare capacity in repatriation hospitals, it is sensible to make these facilities and the expertise of repatriation treatment services available to the community generally. This is being done in a number of ways. Where there is spare bed capacity in repatriation hospitals, ex-servicemen who are already in hospital for a war related condition will also be treated for any other conditions if this is considered medically desirable. Nonrepatriation patients referred from the repatriation artificial limb and appliance centres may also be admitted for treatment. In addition to making spare bed capacity available, the Repatriation Department is working closely with a number of other health authorities to achieve greater use of some specialist facilities such as pathology, radiology and renal services. The role of the repatriation artificial limb and appliance centres has been expanded to serve the whole community by providing artificial limbs free of cost for those who need them - both to ex-servicemen and women and to civilians. This is a highly specialised area where the Repatriation Department is well equipped to provide a first class service and also to broaden the base of its operations. 
One point which the Government would like to emphasise is that under all these new arrangements for the use of repatriation treatment facilities, ex-servicemen and their dependants, for whom the Repatriation Commission has a statutory responsibility, will retain first priority. Facilities will be used for non-entitled persons only when there is spare capacity after providing treament of those entitled under repatriation legislation. The measures I have mentioned in outline are some of the initiatives which this Government has introduced into repatriation over the last twelve or fifteen months. The list is by no means complete. A number of other changes of no less importance have been made. These include continuation of war pensions for children in full time education, regardless of age, the recognition of de facto wives and ex-nuptial children and continued payment of 
Service pensions overseas. All of these changes were long overdue. 
As is known, last year Parliament approved legislation to enable the determining authorities under the Repatriation Act to give reasons for their decisions. I know that that matter is very dear to the hearts of many ex-servicemen. Ex-servicemen's organisations have for a long time been seeking arrangements such as these, and I am sure that they will find it gratifying to see their efforts rewarded. A number of determining authorities have been preparing reasons as a trial measure. This is to allow the authorities time to adjust to the new requirements and to enable any necessary administrative and other changes to be identified. It is proposed to introduce the advice of reasons for decisions gradually so as to avoid delays and inconvenience to claimants and appellants. Once the trials have been completed and the results evaluated, regulations will be made to enable applicants to be notified of the reasons that led the determining authorities to make the particular decisions. 
I turn now to the increases in pensions and allowances, in particular, related to the Bill before the House. Shortly after being elected to office the Government announced that there would be increases in a number of repatriation pension rates. When the new rates were brought into effect in March 1973 they were backdated, as promised and as honourable members might well be reminded, to 7 December 1972. Pensions were again increased in the 1973 Budget. It was also announced at the time that there would be further increases during the current session of the Parliament. The Biil that is before us at the present time provides for the third increase in about 12 months. One of those increases was backdated 3 months, that is, the one made last March. 
The increases sought by the introduction of this Bill are an increase in the special, or what is known as the TPI, rate pension by $4.50 a week to $60.10 a week, an increase in the intermediate rate pension of $2.25 a week to $41.05 a week, an increase in the general rate pension of $3 a week to $22 a week, an increase in the war widow's pension of $3 a week to $26 a week and an increase in the service pension for single persons of $3 a week to $26 a week and for married persons of $2.50 each a week to $22.75 each a week. The latest increases will again bring the special or TPI rate war pension up to the level of the minimum wage, which is at present $60.10 a  week. The TPI pension was first brought up to the level of the minimum wage by the Government in March 1973. That was in keeping with a pledge by the Government that it would always keep the TPI pension rate equivalent to the minimum adult wage. 
As the Minister for Defence has reminded me, those pensions are not taxable. In just over 12 months the TPI pension has been increased by a total of $12.10 a week. The general rate pension, as we know, was neglected by the previous Government for a number of years. As a result of the implementation of the increases which have now been proposed the general rate pension will have been increased 3 times under the present Government and the maximum - 100 per cent - rate will have risen by $8 a week from $14 a week to $22 a week, which is a faster rate of increase than has ever previously been achieved. The Government's stated aim is to continue to increase the general rate pension until it reaches SO per cent of the minimum wage. That is a contract for the future. 
Most other repatriation pensions and allowances have been increased by the present Government since it came to office. These include the war widow's pension and domestic allowance, the pensions for war orphans and widowed mothers and the allowances under the soldiers' children education scheme. They have all been increased. One of the first acts of the new Government was to increase the funeral benefit from $50 to $100. A good deal of the Government's attention has been given to service pensions and major advances have been made in this field. Single and married service pensioners will have received 3 increases, including the one now proposed, bringing the total in increases since 2 December 1972 to $6 a week for a single person and $5.50 each for married people. The service pension will continue to be increased until it reaches ,25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The Government has undertaken to do that in the lifetime of this Parliament. 
Abolition of the means test, which is an important policy of the Government, has commenced. Service pensioners 75 years and over can now receive a pension free of any means test. The first step has also been taken to disregard war pensions in the assessment of service pensions. All service pensioners now have 25 per cent of their war pension dis regarded in cases where the means test still applies. That is for all those under 75 years of age. I understand that later in the year it will be reduced to cover those under 70 years of age. All of these increases have increased the repatriation expenditure by a previously unheard  oi  amount. However, certain priorities had to be set in the allocation of the funds available for distribution in this area. The Government has been unable within these priorities to increase the pension rates for wives and children. There are one or two things that I would dearly love to see done in that respect but the priorities have to be taken into consideration. One of them is, of course, the granting to wives of TPI pensioners of free repatriation hospital and medical treatment. In many cases they will be able to avail themselves of the measures I indicated earlier, where there is an excess capacity; I believe that they deserve absolute top priority. It is doubtful whether so many dramatic and, for that matter, drastic improvements have ever been made to the repatriation system in such a short time. That shows that the Labor Government is concerned about the welfare of exservicemen and their dependants. The Labor Government is concerned about ensuring that Australia's veterans are justly and adequately compensated for their sacrifices. I heartily support the Repatriation Bill and the associated Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill. They can only be of great advantage to the recipients of the benefits provided by them. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What Liberal and Country Party (a) Ministers or ex-Ministers, (b) Members or ex-Members, (c) Senators or ex-Senators and (d) prominent officials or ex-officials were appointed by the Australian Government to (i) judicial positions, (ii) diplomatic or trade posts, (iii) remunerative positions on statutory authorities or (iv) any other office of profit under the Crown between 10 December 1949 and 2 December 1972. 
What was the (a) date of appointment, Ob) term of appointment and (c) salary on appointment in each case. 
 My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the State governments and their authorities are responsible for a large proportion of public expenditure in Australia? If so, what is the relevance of that fact in the context of the plan to cut public expenditure enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Has the Government in mind any additional measures to promote inventiveness in industry? If so, will such organisations as the Inventors Association of Australia be consulted about such proposed measures before legislation is finally drafted? 
The best possible answer I can give to all that has been said by the Opposition this morning is not only to refer to the many telegrams of thanks from patients in nursing homes in my electorate which I have received since the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  promptly increased the subsidy by up to $20 a week for patients in nursing homes, but also to refer to a telegram received by the Minister from a person who I think the Opposition will recognise and, I believe, respect. The telegram is dated 12 July 1974. It states: 
Appreciate what you have done for nursing homes. Real trouble now is to finance wages to nurses until reimbursements are made to nursing homes. I am sure it would be appreciated by everyone if you could take action to expedite this. 
It was signed by William McMahon, the former Liberal Prime Minister. He was expressing his thanks and appreciation to the Minister for the prompt action he took to give relief to the people in nursing homes. What an inappropriate time the Opposition picked to bring on this discussion, not only after this generous increase in subsidy was given to patients in nursing homes but also just after we increased the pension for single pensioners by $5 a week. Most of the persons in these nursing homes  -  80 per cent of them we are told - are pensioners. I would venture further to say that the vast majority of them are single pensioners. So this is a most inappropriate time for the Opposition to bring on the discussion of this subject as a matter of public importance. As a matter of fact, some idea of what a higgledy-piggledy system private nursing home development has been in Australia is testified to by figures which I should like to cite about the distribution of nursing homes throughout Australia. If nursing homes are so urgently needed, if these private nursing homes need to be succoured in a way that is suggested by the Opposition, why is it that they are so ill-distributed over the continent of Australia? New South Wales has almost half of the nursing homes in Australia. As at 1972-73, there were 507 nursing homes in New South Wales out of the 1,236 in Australia. 
Victoria, the State from which the honourable member for Murray comes, is the State with the next highest number of private nursing homes at 263. That figure includes, of course, the non-profit private charitable organisation nursing homes. 
I thank the honourable member for asking that question. I will be glad to oblige him with the answer. In the whole of Australia there was a total of 53,416 beds in nursing homes, including 24,257 in New South Wales. This in fact, represents close to 50 per cent of the total of beds in Australia. Does that not suggest to honourable members that there is something inherently wrong with a system that ill distributes nursing homes and nursing beds? Of course it does. 
I do not have time in 10 minutes, which is nearly half gone, to answer the honourable member's interjections. The fact that nearly 50 per cent of the nursing homes and almost 50 per cent of all beds are in New South Wales is an indication of the inadequacy of the system. As a matter of fact, the outgoing Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972 recognised the rackets that were operating in some of these private nursing homes. I do not want to be quoted as saying that all private nursing homes - including profit-making homes - are inadequate. Some of them, including some in my own electorate, are very good places and I commend them for it. But a lot of racketeering went on when private nursing homes were being hawked across the stock exchanges. Honourable members are aware of what has happened on the stock exchanges. The testimony of  Senator Rae's  committee tells us a little about that. Private nursing homes were hawked across the stock exchanges and so the outgoing LiberalCountry Party Government set up a tribunal compelling the proprietors of these nursing homes to appear before this body to give evidence of the need to increase their fees. Until that time, it was an open slather, the nursing homes put up their fees and we the taxpayers of Australia had to meet this open go on the part of the nursing homes. That was the sort of thing that was going on. 
I return now to the more positive things that this Government has done. The Minister for Social Security said that this year the Government will spend $14 lm supporting patients in nursing homes. I have referred to the increases which the Government has given both in terms of the subsidy for nursing home patients and also the indirect subsidy of the increase in pensions. This last pension increase is the fourth substantial increase in less than 2 years that this Government has given. In each case the increase has outweighed anything in the way of price increases. 
The Government has gone further. It has guaranteed the debts of private non-profit making nursing homes. It has guaranteed their running costs in relation to their acceptance of day patients. What did the previous Government do about that? It promised to set up under a particular Act in 1969 a welfare system that would help to keep these kinds of patients in their own homes. The Opposition parties then in government said, and they said again recently in their policy statement, that about 40 per cent of these people should never be in nursing homes. They should be looked after in their own homes. That was all right, but the previous Government did nothing about it. It did not train the social workers and the ancillary staff needed for such work. It did not provide the necessary subsidies, such as housekeeper services and so on, to help people who did not have families to look after them or who had families who could not care less about their aged parents. The previous Government did not train the kind of people who were necessary to keep these aged people in their own homes. 
A number of schemes now in operation are designed to do just this and to build public nursing homes and hostels to look after these people. We have that very ambitious program, the Australian Assistance Program, which is aimed to do the sort of thing I have just mentioned - to help to keep more aged people in their homes and to provide them with a comprehensive range of medical and social services. I am reminded that it is not only the Minister for Social Security who is engaged in this enterprise. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  who is sitting at the table, also is involved. The Sax Commission brought down a report in April 1974 in which it recommended the expenditure of S260m for mental hospital facilities, public nursing homes and health hospitals. The Government will provide a subsidy on a $2 for Si basis to the States to help in this matter. 
The Australian Health Department through geriatric care services, including follow-up services and the like, is funding the community health program. In various places around Australia today there are springing up community health centres which enable aged people to stay in their own homes. These centres cater for people other than aged people but their establishment helps aged people to stay in their own homes, because they have the assurance and the security to which the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  referred. They have the assurance that if they take sick temporarily and need hospitalisation they can go to the local community health centre. If they need hospitalisation for only a day or part of a day they can go to the community health centre. If any honourable member wants to see this sort of service in operation in a wonderful way, he can go to Newcastle in New South Wales where it has been functioning for years. It takes people away from costly services. 
What did the previous Government do about building public hospitals in Australia? A person spoke to me only the other day about her father who went to the local public hospital, was admitted and was kept there half a day. The hospital staff then said: 'Look, we have not got a place for you here, you will have to go back home'. Within a few days that unfortunate old man died of pneumonia. There is, on the testimony of every State government in Australia today, a woeful inadequacy of public hospitals. Let people try to get into any public hospital especially if they happen to be geriatric patients. That is the testimony of what the previous Government did. It ill behoves the Opposition to preach to the Governmen about what it is not doing. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion has concluded. 
Is the Minister for Education satisfied with the manner in which various State governments, particularly the New South Wales Government, are dispensing special grants provided by the Australian Government for disadvantaged schools? Is he aware that some schools with grave deficiencies in terms of staff, accommodation and equipment have received no assistance as yet - and the position is aggravated by a high proportion of children of non English-speaking parents in the school population - and have been given no prospect of such aid? I cite as an example the Kogarah High School in my electorate. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the Chair to raise a question about the ringing of the division bells  this morning. At the time I happened to be in the office of  Senator Wheeldon,  the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I know my hearing is not quite as acute as it may have been in days gone by, but I heard no bells whatsoever. But when I returned to my own office on this side of the building I was informed that I had missed 2 divisions. I would be glad if an inquiry could be made to see whether on occasions like this when the Senate is not sitting the bells could still be rung in the various offices of the Parliament on the other side of the building as well as on this side. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction been drawn to recent statements by  Mr Pietersen  of the Housing Industry Association that there is a serious downturn in activities in the building industry? Does the Minister's assessment of the situation coincide with that of this gentleman? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. By way of preamble, I say that the Prime Minister will not doubt be aware of the savage and inflationary charges imposed by the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government in the Budget delivered by the 
Premier,  Sir Robert  Askin, last night. What warrant did the Premier have for saying that these charges were made necessary by the alleged refusal of the Australian Government to provide reasonable grants and loans to the New South Wales Government? 
-The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has continued in the same theme of doom and gloom that has characterised the Opposition's attack on this Budget right from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  at the outset of the debate on the Budget. We are told that somehow or other the people of Australia made a big mistake. What is more they were guilty of making it twice in pretty quick succession. We are told by those people who know everything that we inherited an economy that was the best that could be found probably in the world. 
-Never mind Leyland. The honourable member should look at a publication called 'Poverty in Australia' which was published at the beginning of 1973. It refers to the fact that after 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government about one million people in this country were living in what is called either 'very poor' or 'rather poor' circumstances. Honourable members can take their choice. Honourable members opposite tell us those were the golden years of Liberal-Country Party rule. 
On the other hand we are criticised for being socialists. I do not know to what socialism refers, but if it refers to the injection of a substantial amount of money into the starved education system of this country, we stand guilty of being called socialists. If we are socialists because we are now injecting- honourable members opposite have just approved this- monumental amounts of money into the public transport system of this country, we stand condemned and happily so for doing that. If we are socialists because we are going to do something substantial about the health facilities of this country, I think a lot of people will be darned pleased that we are socialists if this is what socialism means. I wonder whether the honourable member for McPherson and his colleagues also class it as socialism when they plead for the retention of subsidies for affluent groups in the community. Some of those people who did not need help were getting help at the behest of the Country Party particularly while it was in office. 
We are supposed to have created inflation. We are the people who are responsible for the shortage of goods and services. I wonder whether members of the Opposition will take the time for a few minutes to look at the current report of the Reserve Bank of Australia. The report is dealing with productivity, to which the honourable member for McPherson referred. The report states: ' 
Business fixed investment provided considerable stimulus to demand early in 1973-74. After falling for the best part of 2 years - 
During the regime of Liberal-Country Party governments- . . . business fixed investment had shown positive signs of recovery only towards the end of 1972-73, well after most other forms of spending had turned firmly upwards. 
Do members of the Opposition want the community to forget what happened in 1971? Do they want the community to forget what happened in 1961, 1966 and 1971 when we had the cycles of deliberately created downturns in employment, downturns in productivity and instances of industries languishing for orders. These are the kinds of trends in the economy that we inherited and we have set about trying to rectify them. We have invited the States and private enterprise to join with us in co-operative effort to overcome these kinds of things that have upset the economy not only of this country but also of other countries. 
It is notable when we are talking about inflation that, according to the same report of the Reserve Bank of Australia food prices rose by 2 1 per cent in Australia in 1973 and were responsible for 47 per cent of the increase in the consumer price index. Why did food prices rise? They rose for a number of reasons. They rose for the one good reason that this Government opened up new markets around the world for our primary produce. Meat prices soared. Do honourable members opposite not remember the high prices? Do they not remember also that wool prices started to recover and that prices for various types of minerals also rose? Food prices- grain products, meat and other commodities rose substantially. I do not blame primary producers who took advantage of the world market position that then occurred. So, as I said, one item causing the increase in the consumer price index in 1973 was a 47 per cent increase in food prices alone. That had a selfgenerating effect. Of course employees, having to meet these increased domestic prices for foodstuffs, wanted their wages increased. Then of course there was the heavy incidence of floods. Those who have served on the Public Accounts Committee with me have listened to evidence of the dislocation that occurred in public works because of the floods. Such dislocations also occurred and did great damage in the primary producer sector of this community. That again aggravated the food price situation. 
Then there was the land speculation, the land boom. Is that to be forgotten? There was an indecent land boom in Australia, and even young people bought a block of land not to build a home on it but as a speculative device. They saved $1,000- money was easy to borrow in the last 6 months or so of the McMahon Government in its desperate efforts to try to retain office in 1972, and credit was readily available. So these people, young and old alike, found that the best way of making money was to buy land and then to resell it within a matter of months and make as much as $ 1 ,000 or more in the bargain. 
The Rae committee, presided over by a member of one of the Opposition parties, noted what happened on the stock exchange- the indecent speculation- corruption I call it- that went on on the stock exchange. Even the stock exchange itself is now taking measures to penalise some of the people who were responsible for cheating so many people of their life savings. These are some of the reasons why the Opposition was turned out of government and why the economy was not in quite the ship-shape order the previous  speaker  would have us believe. The money supply rose by 26 per cent in 1972-73. Most of that rise took place in the first 6 months of that financial year, during the last 6 months of the Liberal-Country Party regime. These are some of the symptoms of the economy and the state of affairs that we inherited and why the people turned the previous Government out of office in 1972 and why they repeated their action in support of the Australian Labor Party Government in 1974. 
All sorts of accusations are made about this Government. I wonder what about some of the State governments and what they have done, what their contribution has been to helping us in getting over this inflation problem. Not only did the State Liberal and Country Party governments, along with their cohorts in this place, help to defeat the referendum that proposed to give the Australian Government the power to control prices and incomes last year, but they also have now gone further and have levied extravagant charges on goods and services, which in every case will make it even more difficult for whatever government happens to be in power in this Australian Parliament to control inflation. 
Just take my own State of New South Wales. The latest Budget introduces a 6c a gallon increase on the price of petrol. Just imagine the contribution that will make towards combating inflation! These are the people who want to teach us how to combat inflation. A lot of other charges have been introduced which I would not have time now to enumerate, but they will all be loaded into the cost structure. These are the people who are supposed to offer us co-operation in combating inflation. I hope they can give us a better example than they have done. These charges have not been introduced because we have starved them of funds as they would have us believe. Statement No. 1 of the Budget papers shows that in 1973-74 the States were provided with $4, 179m, which represented a 2 1.2 per cent increase on the amount of money provided in the previous financial year, during half of which year the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power. If that was not a good contribution, look at what this Budget provides for the States and local government bodies- an increase of almost 40 per cent. This amounts to $5,800m, nearly double the percentage increase. 
But the State governments have not always chosen to take up the offers made by this Government any more than they chose always to take up the offers by our predecessors. A lot of money that has been available has not been taken up, notably in New South Wales and in Queensland and to some lesser extent in Victoria. Then they have the hide to say that we are starving them of funds. Look at the amount of money that has been provided to the States for their own purposes by way of grants and Loan Council borrowings. Look at it in terms of per capita grants over the years, not just this year. In 1959-60 the States were given, in round figures, $64 per head of population. In 1964-65 that figure was raised to $85 per head. In 1969-70- getting towards the end of the Liberal-Country Party regime of almost a quarter of a centurythe figure was raised to $127 per head of population. But in 1973-74, the last year for which figures are available in respect of per head grants, the figure had risen from the $127 of 1969-70 to $249 in 1973-74. This is an indication of what this Government has done with money for the States and local government bodies. Yet they cry poor mouth and say they have to put up these extravagant charges while on the other hand we have offered them money for hospitals, education and for transport and they have not taken those offers up. We have offered them money for a variety of social welfare purposes and again some States, particularly New South Wales and Queensland and to a lesser extent, I think, Victoria, have not taken up these offers and the people go without. We have even offered not only to subsidise hospitals in the various States but to build and to maintain a major Commonwealth hospital in each of the three of our most populous cities, Sydney in New South Wales, Melbourne in Victoria and Brisbane in Queensland. Yet these States are still debating whether they will take up our offer. The same applies in respect of public transport and a variety of other services. 
What of the formula for grants to the States that we are operating on? Who created this formula by which grants are made to the State governments and to the local government bodies? As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  answered me in reply to a question on 26 September, the grant formula was designed by the Gorton Government during its term in office. The Treasurer at that time was the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  That formula took account of inflation. So it is no good the Opposition saying: 'Oh, yes, you give grandiose figures for what you are giving but it is inflated money.' The formula took account of inflation- a formula designed by our predecessors and not changed, as I was reminded by the present Prime Minister, by  Mr McMahon  when he was the Prime Minister of Australia. But we have gone beyond that formula. We have made a number of other offers of grants of money many of which were not taken up last year because complementary legislation was not enacted, particularly by the non-Labor State governments. 
Further grants have even been made as late as last week when the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  offered, I think, $75m extra for housing on top of the greatly increased housing grant that was made to the States early in the year, particularly stipulating that the funds should go to the lower and middle income earning groups in the community. These are the people who were and unfortunately still are paying exorbitant rents in many cases and paying high interest rates. My prediction, for what it is worth, is that interest rates are starting to come down and by the first quarter of next year I personally expect that interest rates will come down somewhat. Meanwhile, the Government has provided in this Budget relief measures for home owners or intending home purchasers by way of the rebate scheme it has put into the taxation schedule. It has also made money available in record amounts to the housing commissions of the States. It has made money available in record amounts to the terminating building societies. These measures are all going to help the home owners for whom the previous  speaker  was so concerned. Apart from that, the Government has set aside $25m for a national authority which it is creating to help in providing homes at reasonable rates, particularly for people in the lower and middle income groups. 
Time will not allow me to enumerate all the very good things contained in this Budget. For instance, I could have referred to the amount of $ 1,535m that is provided for all levels of education, an all time record amount. Last year a substantial increase was provided; this year the amount goes up by 78 per cent. I am particularly glad to see that within the context of the education grant the amount for disadvantaged schools, which were so neglected by our predecessors, has increased from last year's generous grant of $6,650,000 to $18,430,000, a threefold increase. In the case of schools for handicapped children the amount has again almost trebled by similar figures to those to which I have already referred. Reference has been made to what the Government is supposed to have done to the disadvantage of the non-state schools. The grant to non-government schools in the States has gone up this year from $70m, in round figures, to $120m, an increase of $50m. Into the bargain, we have also made provision in the tax scheme to give particular benefit to single income families and with special emphasis on larger sized families. This is a further instalment of the education grant. The grant in 1972 for children in, say, a regional Catholic primary school of $50 per head has gone up to $ 163; it has trebled. Nothing like that ever happened under a Liberal government. Nothing like that has happened under certain State governments. In my view, the New South Wales State Government has earned undeserved praise, disproportionate praise, for what it has done compared with what this Government is doing. As far as secondary schools are concerned, the per capita grant for regional nonGovernment schools has gone up from $68m in 1972 to $260m in 1974-1975. 
There is a whole catalogue of benefits in this Budget As far as I am concerned, what has been done for technical education is absolutely tremendous and will contribute greatly to the future productivity of this country. Our future wealth is not to be measured in terms of dollars and cents but in terms of the social, cultural, intellectual and physical needs of this society. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. The Minister will recall the very difficult conditions imposed on divisional returning officers and their permanent and temporary staff at the last elections in May. Does he also recall the use of rather unsatisfactory makeshift voting booths caused by the emergency situation associated with the double dissolution? I ask the Minister if action has been taken or is likely to be taken to remedy these unsatisfactory conditions? Can he also indicate that the status and remuneration of electoral officials, permanent and temporary, have been or are likely to be increased so as to be more commensurate with their responsibilities and work load? 
-I do not intend to pursue the rehash of a second reading speech made by the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  and his rather cursory remarks about the Jackson committee. I think he will acknowledge if he considers it, even though he was not in the chamber at the time, that at least the establishment of the Jackson committee displays a much more comprehensive approach to working out a rational program of manufacturing in Australia than the rather ad hoc, once a year consultation with industry that used to take place before Budget time in the time of our predecessors. Governments all around the world are endeavouring to make the productive processes more efficient and more rationalised. This can involve structual changes in manpower and industry policies. Many countries are carrying out programs for structural change in their industries. This involves rationalisation, to which I have just referred. It involves relocation of industries in certain circumstances, retraining and research. This is not something that is going on only in Australia in the present economic climate; it has been going on in all advanced Western countries for quite some time. 
In the very few minutes I have available to me I want to pay my respects and offer my congratulations to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  and to his immediate predecessor, the present Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  for the announcement last night of a very important new initiative by this Government, namely, the Inventors' Assistance Scheme. This scheme will provide $228,000 in 1974-75 for the benefit of individual inventors in Australia. Most advanced countries of the world for years have been operating such a scheme but we have been rather laggard about it. Even up to last year we made $10,000 available for individual inventors. We recognise that in war time and in peace time alike there is a considerable amount of creative talent and inventiveness in Australia which, as in other countries, has not been made use of as much as it could have been. These individual inventors, many of them ordinary employees in factories, do not get the opportunity of exploiting their inventiveness, and so they need help. Quite often it seems that industries would much rather borrow their ideas from overseas. Australia pays out millions of dollars each year in royalties and licensing and other fees to borrow the ideas from people overseas rather than giving assistance to those who could create them in Australia. 
We have had our notable but all too few inventions in Australia and they have been very useful and have been sold on overseas markets. This new program offers to an inventor who satifies the advisory panel up to $10,000 in order to help develop his invention to the stage where he may receive a patent for it. Of the total of $228,000, $150,000 will go to private inventors. This money will not be handed out to just anybody. A wildcat scheme will not attract this money. The proposal will have to go through the sieve of a body of people in each State making recommendations to a central advisory committee. The inventor may receive up to $10,000. Therefore, the scheme will be of very considerable help to inventors. An amount of $50,000 will be provided for the evaluation of inventions to see whether they are worthwhile and have prospects of advancing our manufacturing techniques or of creating new products or new parts of products in our Australian economy. 
I note with gratitude that $20,000 is to be given to the Inventors' Association of Australia, an organisation with which I have had association through all the years of its existence. It is a very modest body which started in 1958 and has now developed into a national body. It has had to carry on with very little assistance except that given gratuitously by individuals, not Governmentpatent attorneys and such people, people in private enterprise and companies like John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd, which have given incentive and encouragement to these organisations. Another $8,000 is to be provided for administration costs related to the inventors advisory panels. This is a real initiative. I know from first-hand contact this afternoon with the National Secretary of the Inventors' Association of Australia that the Association is most grateful for this contribution by the Government. 
Many people who are familiar with the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'The Inventors', one of the most popular programs televised, have recognised the worth of inventions and have often wondered why they have not received much more support from Government. Here is a start. The provision of $228,000 will not make a tremendous difference but it will give encouragement and a real start and real support to inventors. As I said, there will be advisory panels to guide the Minister in recommending which inventions are worth while supporting. The assistance will carry inventors up to the point where they will be able to get their patent rights in certain circumstances. That will not be the end of the story. One of the things these inventors will be looking for is the protection of their patent once they have achieved it. People who are in this game tell me that one of the greatest difficulties they have, even after they have achieved the patent, is protecting their patent from infringement by some big enterprise, whether it be in this country or overseas. They have not the financial resources to defend themselves in the courts. So I hope there will be a further advance on what the Minister for Manufacturing industry has already done- a very creditable performance- by way of legal protection for these people who have brought forward these inventions. 
The main aim of the whole scheme is to assist private inventors. These are the individual inventors as distinct from those working in programs within the Australian Industrial Research and Development scheme which provides assistance to companies in certain circumstances. Under this scheme assistance is given to individual inventors, whether they be people with means or people who have just an idea and who need some help in cultivating it. Inventions judged to be worth while will be assisted by the Government in this way. I hope that on these panels will be representatives of the Inventors Association of Australia. It has been in existence since 1958. 
It has something like 16 years of hard experience. I know that the Minister has been very good to this Association in consulting with it. I hope it will find a place on these advisory panels to be used in selecting worthwhile inventions, or potential inventions, that ought to be rewarded with Government assistance. 
The honourable member for Berowra referred to another initiative by this Government, namely, the setting up of the first ever Green Paper Committee to carry out a comprehensive investigation of manufacturing in Australia. It is called the Jackson Committee and it is chaired by the General Manager and Director of Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, one of the biggest private companies in this country, working along with very highly placed persons in Government, academics and representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. These people have all got together- from Government, private enterprise, employee organisations and academics. They are very significant people. They have been given terms of reference which will guide them in producing for the first time a comprehensive program of manufacturing activity in this country. There has not previously been anything like that. As I said at the outset, we have in the past gone on in this ad hoc way of once a year, half a day, a day or a day and a half in consultation with industry, employee organisations and others. This new move will have a long term as well as a comparatively short term objective of producing, as I said, a more effective, a more efficient, a more comprehensive and a more rational program of manufacturing activity for Australia, having regard not only to the domestic situation but also our international trading concerns as well. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  -Order! the honourable member's time has expired. 
I should like to address my remarks to the proposed appropriation for the Department of Social Security. It will be noted that the appropriation of $89,679,837 for last year has been increased to $141,637,000 this year or, in round figures, from $89m to $141m. This is for one particular department. That Department embraces quite a number of activities. Today I want to refer particularly to just one aspect of it. It is a very important one and a very humanitarian one, namely, the care of the handicapped people in our community. Prior to the previous Federal election the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  outlined the policy in respect of social welfare in the community. In that program he highlighted the Government's concern about the laggardness that occurred in our community as far as provisions for the mentally and physically handicapped are concerned. In that program he aimed to provide for as much self respect, personal dignity and sense of independence for these people as could be provided. 
I would like just to deal with some of the 15 measures he specified. Some of them are included in this Budget. Most of them have now been accounted for in the short time that has elapsed. The first one I refer to is the handicapped childs' allowance of $10 a week to be provided to parents and guardians of physically or mentally handicapped children up to the age of 16, when presumably they would receive the invalid pension. The $10 a week will be given to parents and guardians of children who require special care or attention in their homes. I say 'in their homes', but my inquiries indicate that the provisions will not preclude handicapped children who do go to special schools. A number of those also will attract the $10 a week grant. This provision will cover about 20,000 young handicapped people in our community. The cost will be about $ 10m. The grant will be free of means test. A second and allied feature in this Budget was the increase by 16 per cent in the provision for handicapped children who are in approved institutions. The benefit will be increased from $3 to $3.50 a week. As I say, this is rather allied to the previous provision which I mentioned. This latter item will cost $225,000 in a full year. 
A third provision in this Budget is the introduction of a $5 weekly incentive allowance free of means test for people in approved sheltered employment. This is one feature in which I have been particularly interested all through my political life. It provides an opportunity to people who are disabled for one reason or another. It does not matter whether the disablement is from congenital causes, because of an accident or sport, or is caused in other ways, such as the deterioration of health, to such an extent that in certain circumstances only are they able to carry out fruitful and self satisfying employment. That is how the sheltered workshop movement grew. This movement, which to its credit has been developed by voluntary effort, now has the imprimatur of government. We are now subsidising it to a fair measure. My only hope and my wish is that the Government will look again at the definition of what is an approved sheltered workshop as I think our provision could be made much more generous than it is. At the moment the criteria is based on the average amount earned per week by these people who work in sheltered workshops. They are to receive a $5 weekly incentive allowance without means test. This will replace the $4 a week rental allowance which was subject to a means test and which had a very disincentive effect. I am very pleased to see this removed and replaced by the measure which I have just described. 
Expenditure under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act is expected to increase this year by $2.3m to a total of $7m. That is to be added, as I have pointed out already, to the very generous efforts of many people who work in a voluntary capacity. There is to be a doubling of the subsidy rate for construction, rental and maintenance of sheltered workshops, handicapped children 's training centres and associated accommodation facilities. Some of these people do not have a home to go to. So there is provision for accommodation alongside sheltered workshops and here the Government is doubling the subsidy that it is providing to them for this purpose. There is to be an extension of the subsidy to cover activity centres and ancillary rehabilitation facilities. There is a provision in the Budget of a $17,500 increase in the maximum grant to the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled. This will bring the grant to that worthy organisation that is helping disabled people in the community to $97,500. 
Amendments to the Aged Persons Homes Act will enable handicapped adults to be eligible for housing and accommodation which has been previously restricted to aged people. I would like, if I have the time, to refer also to the domiciliary care benefits whereby persons who look after certain elderly persons 65 years of age or over on a fulltime basis will be able to receive $14 a week. I would like to see this benefit extended to the care of invalid people as well as those who are over 65 years of age. Under the Aged Persons Homes Act handicapped people as well as aged people will be accommodated in homes. Previously this benefit, as I have said, was restricted to aged people. 
The rental subsidy given in the field of sheltered workshops is currently limited to premises for sheltered workshop activities. At present the subsidy is limited to a 3-year period. This limitation is to be abolished and the rate of subsidy is to be increased to $4 for every $ I which is put up by any voluntary organisation or local government instrumentality. The scope of the subsidy is to be widened to include activity centres, hostels, training centres and the like. It is to be hoped that local government bodies will take advantage of the generous subsidy terms. The Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act enables local government bodies to use borrowed money to attract subsidy for sheltered workshops and residential accommodation for handicapped people working in sheltered workshops. That did not exist under the previous Government. I want to acknowledge that a number of these schemes were started by the previous Government. The present Government is adding to these various humanitarian provisions in what I regard as a very generous measure both in this Budget and in the activities of previous years. 
The Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act 1973 is designed to serve the same purpose in relation to training centres, training equipment and residential units for handicapped children. These centres also will get the increased subsidy from the Government, under the Act. Also the replacement cost of certain equipment under the terms of both the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act will receive the same generous subsidy. The Government has also made provision for therapeutic training programs such as physiotherapy and dental care. These programs will be regarded as training for the purpose of attracting subsidy under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. Eligible organisations may receive capital subsidy when establishing training centres for handicapped children. Inclusion of areas for therapeutic training purposes where these are provided as an adjunct to the training centres will assist the organisations and avoid anomalies in the administration of the grants. 
I do not have time to go through all of the 15 items that the Minister outlined in his policy speech but the Australian Government is also making provision in its own buildings for better access and better services for handicapped people. It is providing access ramps, hand rails, special toilet facilities and so on. We hope that the State governments, local governments and private enterprise will imitate our example. The rehabilitation training program is to be extended beyond 3 years so that handicapped people if they want to do so can take on tertiary education over a period of 3, 4 or 5 years. They will not be limited to the prospect of finishing a course in 3 years. Portability of pensions applies to invalid pensions just as it applies to other areas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Will companies experiencing liquidity problems or difficult trading conditions be entitled to apply for deferment of their quarterly tax commitments now due? If so, will companies granted such concession be liable for any penalty for such deferment? 
-I rise to support this Bill. It seems to me that the Liberal Party- I do not know about the Country Partyhas learnt very little in its 2 years in Opposition regarding the matter of education. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  still seems to have the same old obsession with an interest in the A category schools. I do not blame him one iota for being concerned about children from any sector of life or socio-economic circumstance. I have no particular illwill about his feelings for those children we have designated as A category school children. What I am concerned about is why it is that over the years when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power it did not have the same obsession about the thousands of schools scattered throughout Australia that existed in absolute educational poverty, as I would call it. I refer to government and non-government schools. I urge honourable members to look at schools not only in the cities but also in regional towns. I urge them to consider the situation of the convent schools as well as local public schools that exist in small country towns. Unfortunately such conditions still exist. The Government cannot remedy the situation in 2 years. I ask Opposition members to consider the kind of teachers such schools had and the lack of proper professional education provided. Why were they not obsessed in all those years with spending millions to do something about those schools? There seems to be this obsession about those people who are most able to help themselves and little regard for the vast majority who are least able to help themselves- those, who by chance of birth, happen to be born into poor families and, therefore, born with a lifelong, in many cases, lack of opportunity. 
Having said that, I should like to draw the attention of the House to the Budget Speech for this year, 1974-75, and particularly to Statement No. 3 which accompanied that Speech. It shows that in 1973-74 the non-government schools in the States, not including those in the Territories for which very liberal grants have been made, received $70m. I speak in round figures. This year they received $ 121m. I see that the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  has left the House now. He made his speech, offered his criticism, but he is not here to hear the rebuttal and the exposition of what this Government has done. From $70m to $ 1 2 1 m is, in my quick arithmetic, an increase of $5 lm or about 70 per cent for non-government schools. Admittedly State schools received more because we had to try to rectify the disproportionate help that was being given previously under a Liberal-Country Party regime. 
I am glad to see that the honourable member for Chisholm has returned to the House. I will pay him that tribute. He said not one word about the Government of that time giving in massive proportions grants for scholarships to those who were best able to engage coaches so that their children could get secondary scholarships, as they then were, university scholarships or other tertiary scholarships. The vast majority of these scholarships went to the children of the richest parents in the community. All these things went on. It is no wonder that anyone who accepted for 23 years that kind of attitude would find it somewhat difficult to accept the attitude of another government with a completely different perspectiveone that is concerned for all those children who by accident of birth were born into poverty, near poverty or less opportunity. As a government, we feel that we must try to rectify that circumstance of birth by making sure that resources go to those children. We had debate after debate in which it was argued that you could not have a needs priority or set up indicies of need to cater for these people. We have proved that we can. It is not perfect, but it is at least a start and it will be improved as the Schools Commission goes about its work. There is no coincidence in this whole context. 
In June of this year I was in England for 3 weeks leading a delegation. The Conservative Party in Britain was advocating a reduction in the compulsory school leaving age. Fancy reducing it when you should be increasing it! By reducing the school leaving age from 16 years to IS years what did it produce but a cutback of all those children who were, in its view, unnecessarily going to school, who ought to know their place in life, who ought not to be aspiring to some higher status. I do not say this in bitterness but it does get me when I find people so preoccupied with a small segment of the community that has been disaffected. The honourable member for Chisholm talked about children who have no freedom of choice. I remind the honourable member and any others who think like him that during their regime a lot of Catholic convent schools went out of existence and a lot of these schools that remained in existence were not able to obtain trained teachers. Many of them had to use people who had no professional qualification whatsoever for teaching. That did not happen in the last 2 years. This has been going on for quite a number of years. This Government is concerned with all children. We are not buying into the old debates about State aid and State rights. We are concerned about helping both State governments and non-governmental education authorities to provide a decent education for all children and to give every child, whatever his limitations or his brilliance, an opportunity to expand that talent to its maximum level in accordance with the child 's own motivation. 
In my speech on the Budget I referred to some of the things that we are doing for nongovernment schools. This Bill is not concerned with what we are doing here in Canberra or what we are doing in the Northern Territory or any other place, but what we are doing for both government and non-government systems in the States. In the Budget this year the provision for State education was increased- last year there was a big uplift- by 137 per cent, which is a pretty big amount even allowing for inflation. That is what this Bill is specifically about- to take note of inflation and to uplift the recommendations of the Schools Commission. The amount of money that we give to the States for government and non-government schools will go up from $161m last financial year to $399m this financial year. As a former teacher and lecturer in a teachers college, I know that money is not education. It is what one makes it do, the resources one can create, the experimentation and the research into content, organisation and administration of education that really matter. It is what goes on inside the bricks and mortar that are so important. This Government is not unmindful of that. It is particularly mindful of it in the various research facilities that it has set up both as a government in its own right and in the facilities that it is making available to State governments, to the non-government school authorities and to individual teachers and groups of teachers, such projects as the wonderful innovations program. 
I understand that over 1,000 applications have been made already for grants under the innovations program. Already $3. 3m has been allocated of the $7.2m that has been made available for that program in the 2 year period, 1974 and 1975. Let me mention some of the matters for which it has been allocated. I think I ought to say this because a number of teachers are still unaware of the facilities that are being provided by this Government. Teachers are not aware of it and I do not think that some of the State education authorities are doing very much to help them become aware of it. I must make that unfortunate statement. One of the grants that were made available recently was $60,000 for a pilot program by the Catholic Education Office in Victoria to assess the efficiency of a staffing scheme which increases pupil-teacher ratios but at the same time increases the availability of paraprofessional staff. The Victorian Catholic Education Office receives also in this series a second grant of $38,000 for a project involving liaison between the government and Catholic education systems on implementation of programs involving both systems and joint use of facilities. This is not the old ranting about State aid and so on that we had previously. This is a genuine attempt to do something for the education of all children and for all people throughout their lives. But this Bill and the Schools Commission naturally are concerned with primary and secondary education. Under the innovation program a grant of $30,000 has been made for a language enrichment program at the Essendon Technical School, and there is a grant of $20,450 to develop a South Australian rural property for a school. These are new approaches. Honourable members opposite talk about freedom of choice. By this kind of research, we are trying to extend and enrich the choices that are available for individuals in both government and nongovernment schools. Almost every education expert who has visited this country has commented upon the dulling, deadening uniformity of our education in Australia. Let us not kid ourselves. The private schools did not introduce anything different from what was done in government schools, simply because they were bound down by the external examinations for which all pupils had to sit. They were slaves to the one education examination system. There was little diversity of approach in the content of curricula, administration and teaching methods in the private system as against the government system. This Government has given impetus and encouragement to individuals and groups to experiment with new systems and make new approaches. 
We are moving out of the old system of external examinations. Taking a sample of a child's work at the end of the year and saying that it represents his ability as displayed over the whole year's work is like taking a patch of soil out of a paddock, analysing it and saying that it is representative of the soil content of the whole paddock. It is just as invalid to take a sample of a child's work by means of a two or three-hour examination paper at the end of the year, under most pressing circumstances, in a situation of anxiety, and saying that that examination sample is representative of what that child has been able to do throughout the year. We are getting right away from that. That is why we are looking at the whole situation and spending so much money on experimentation. 
I will not have a chance to talk about all the things I would like to speak about but I wanted to mention the substantial increases the Government has made available and innovations that have occurred. One of the things with which I was particularly impressed in the educational budget is the provision for disadvantaged schools. I made some reference to this at the beginning of my speech. Disadvantaged schools exist in both the non-government sector and the government sector. There are plenty of them- all too many of them. It will take some years to remedy that defect. The Schools Commission recognises this, and that is why it said that some schools that are already established, that have plenty of facilities and a high pupil-teacher ratio, will have to wait a while. We do not want to debar them from any help at all, and we are not doing so. Children who attend these schools still attract certain taxation concessions, they are still in the field for scholarships, and they have free access to all tertiary education if they are able to get enrolment in tertiary institutions. We are saying to those schools that have fairly adequate facilities: 'Wait a while until those educationally dispossessed children have had a chance to catch up'. 
That is why we went into this matter of categorisation and that is why many nonsystemic private schools are in G and H categories. Under this Government four or five times as much is being spent on each student as was spent under the previous Government. The ratio might be even higher than that. So in this Budget disadvantaged schools are getting a special amount over and above what is given to all other schools. The amount allocated to disadvantaged schools as defined will be increased fourfold as against last year's allocation. I understand that about 800 schools are designated as disadvantaged schools. We all know this. We see them in the suburbs. We see the dingy walls. We see the unpainted walls, the walls that have not been painted for over 20 years. We see the small playgrounds. We know of the high turnover of teachers who resist staying in dingy environments and who seek to move on to other schools. These schools are all well known to us. We are trying to do something over and above the ordinary so that they can catch up. 
We are also concerned about schools for handicapped children. Over the years these schools have had to conduct fetes substantially to finance themselves. Schools for the mentally and physically handicapped should have been taken over as a government responsibility long ago. At least the offer ought to have been made to them. This Government has enabled the States to make an offer to those schools that if they so desire the State school system will take them over and will accept responsibility for them. To be quite frank, I am surprised that many of the special schools and schools for the handicapped have not as yet taken up the offer. I am not too sure why they have not. I think they may be a little appehensive about what it will involve, but I hope they will soon recognise that it will be to their advantage. I am glad to know that two of these schools in my electorate are in the process of taking up the offer by the State to take over financial responsibility for their upkeep. The State will be recompensed by the Australian Government through the Schools Commission. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has told me that he expects that about 50 per cent of these schools will ultimately take up the offer. I do not know why a lot more of them will not do so. When they get over their qualms about what might be involved I hope a lot more of them will take up the offer. 
I could say many other things. I applaud, for instance, the amounts of money that are being made available to the various schools to be spent at their discretion. Whereas a few years ago a headmaster may have had $200 granted to him by the State to spend on the school at his discretion, I am told that these days they have up to $3,000 to $4,000 coming principally out of Australian Government funds. This is giving much more freedom of choice than had ever previously been heard of. This Bill increases the amount of money that will be available to both government and non-government schools and will take account of cost increases that have occurred since the Schools Commission made its recommendations a year ago. 
I too have given an undertaking to try to make my comments brief because of the legislative program which has to be gone through tonight. It is good to find such warm accord for what the Handicapped Persons Assistance Bill aims to do. It aims to consolidate and to extend the help which is given to voluntary organisations which undertake the task of looking after the welfare of handicapped people. While we can congratulate ourselves in some measure because about 10,000 people are now being looked after in this way, it is salutary to ask the question: 'Yes, 10,000 people are being looked after, but how many others are not reaching a source of aid?' As a matter of fact, recent expert studies in this field have suggested that Australia is probably no different from most other western countries in that between 7 per cent and 10 per cent of the total population comes within the category of being either permanently or for some time disabled. With increasing longevity, medical advances and permanent traumatic injuries resulting from road, industrial and domestic accidents, the figure of 7 per cent cannot be expected to decrease. This is clear when one looks at the road toll each weekend- not to say what happens during the week- and at accidents in factories and so on. In hospitals one sees young men of 2 1 , 20 and younger still who have been injured for life through the simple act of diving into shallow water and breaking their spine. These are salutary experiences for anyone to undergo. It enhances our admiration for those voluntary bodies which are receiving extended help from the Government in this task. 
The provisions of the Bill have been referred to in some detail already. I do not think there is any need for me to add unduly to those comments. I am pleased to see that the subsidy extends to sheltered workshops for handicapped adults, training centres for handicapped children and hostels for both children and adults and that it will be doubled, as previous speakers have already mentioned. In other words, from here on as far as the capital expenses are concerned in establishing a centre, four-fifths of the money will be provided by the Australian Government. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  took issue with us because we did not consult the States about this matter. Quite frankly, my impression has been that the States are only too glad for the Australian Government to take the responsibility. In many spheres of welfare the States have said that they have had to fill in the gap which, in the past, has been left by Commonwealth legislation. Therefore I think the States will be very pleased to know that we are prepared to provide money and to give help in kind by way of social workers, physiotherapists and the other personnel who will be necessary for the satisfactory implementation of this program. 
The extension of the rental subsidy will be a big help to the various bodies. Again four-fifths of the money will be provided by the Commonwealth. I hope that this rental subsidy will be an incentive to people who may not be able to provide even one-fifth of the money to build institutions, sheltered workshops, activity centres or recreational centres for handicapped people but who would be capable of raising a lesser amount of money to rent existing premises. Therefore, the rental subsidy will be a great help. There is already a rental subsidy for sheltered workshops but it is limited to 3 years, as has already been mentioned. Under this Bill there will be no limitation of time. People who undertake to rent premises and equipment will be able to receive this subsidy without limitation of time. 
Similarly, the subsidy will be extended to the maintenance of the centres. That also is an important point. One of the things about which I am particularly happy is that the subsidy will be extended to those centres which hitherto have not been designated approved sheltered workshops. I had something to say about this when the former Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  introduced a Bill in about 1970 or a little before that, by which the subsidy was extended to approved sheltered workshops. Approval was based on the average weekly earnings of the persons in the sheltered workshops. Until this date they could earn $4 a week. Now it has been extended to $10 a week. But those centres that do not qualify on the basis of earnings to be designated sheltered workshops will not be debarred from help under this Bill. This Bill will give them exactly the same kind of help as it gives to sheltered workshops. 
I am thinking here of those centres that are attached to schools for physically and mentally handicapped children. Children who have turned 16 years of age no longer qualify for aid from the State. Under this Bill centres which are often located adjacent to subnormal schools, as they are often called, will attract the subsidy. There will be a continuity. The very schools that train the children while they are of compulsory school attendance age or up to the age of 16 when they become invalid pensioners, have attached to them a training centre but in the past they have not been able to qualify for approval as sheltered workshops. That will not matter from now on. They will receive the help that is offered to sheltered workshops. I have two such centres in my electorate, one is the Southaven Sub-Normal School and the other is the Sunnyhurst Sub-Normal Children's School at Penshurst in Sydney. I am pleased to say that they will be assisted by this Bill. I hope that they may graduate to sheltered workshops in due course. 
A salary subsidy is to be provided in respect of approved officers. Whilst the remarks of the honourable member for Hotham were fairly generous about this Bill they were somewhat misguided on this matter. The salary subsidy is in my view one of the most important features of this Bill. A very substantial subsidy is provided. I have read articles by the Sub-Normal Children's Welfare Association which state that it is all very well to subsidise the establishment of buildings but it is another matter to keep up with the running costs of those institutions. That is exactly what this Bill does. It provides up to 50 per cent of the salary of approved staff. Unlike the restrictions on approved staff that applied in the earlier Bill, in this Bill approved staff can include, for instance, domestics in hostels and other staff in sheltered workshops, activity centres, hostels or recreation or rehabilitation centres. All of these people will qualify to have up to 50 per cent of their salary provided by the Commonwealth. This to my mind is a very important feature of this Bill. I understand that it has been very warmly welcomed by the workshops, the other centres and the ancillary services to which I have referred. 
Under this Bill up to 100 per cent of the salary of staff in newly established centres will be provided by the Commonwealth, and that will continue for 2 years during the establishment period. These are all very important features. As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said, this Bill consolidates and extends- to my view it extends very considerably- the help we are giving to these centres. Other measures deal with reequipment. This applies to activity centres that do not qualify as sheltered workshops. There is provision under legislation that has already been before the House for an incentive allowance of $5 a week, without any means test, for people who work in sheltered workshops. There is provision for the rental subsidy, under the means test as we have known it in the past, for the activity centres which do not qualify as sheltered workshops. There is $500 bonus given to sheltered workshops which act as a kind of training institution and which help young people or not so young people to graduate back into normal employment. This Government does not take the whole credit for that proposal. It was pioneered by the previous Government. We acknowledge that. It is interesting to note that so far 209 people have graduated from such sheltered workshops, 78 of them in the last financial year. Our hope is that, with the extension of the service, more people will ultimately graduate back into normal employment. 
This Bill does not just set out to help people earn a living in terms of finance. One of the greatest features of these centres- I acknowledge the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)-  is what they do for the people who are employed in them. It gives them companionship which they cannot necessarily find in their own homes. It also gives relief to the parents and the other members of the family for at least part of the day while these people are away and being cared for by professional and well meaning people. I hear the Government Whip talking about the gag so I shall curtail my remarks at this stage. I strongly support the Bill. I hope that in the days to come when we are not so hard pressed for time we will be able to look at what is being done in some other countries that is somewhat in advance of what we are doing in this Bill. For instance, in Sweden, where the government provides up to 40 per cent- (Quorum formed). 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will no doubt be aware of the latest report of the massive number of deaths due to malnutrition in Bangladesh. Although the Government has already been generous in its assistance to the people of this unfortunate country, will the Government as a matter of urgency give consideration to further aid, financial and /or in kind, to save the lives of many thousands more people in imminent peril? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I note with approval that the Government is about to establish in Sydney the first of a number of National Small Business Bureau offices for the purpose of counselling and feedback of information. Is the Minister aware that quite a number of small businesses are reportedly facing an immediate threat to their existence? Is an important part of their problem the inability to obtain finance on reasonable terms? In the circumstances, do such businesses risk being engulfed by large scale businesses which are better able to withstand the present liquidity problems? Finally, can the Minister give an assurance that urgent consideration will be given to assist efficient small businesses to continue in operation? 
-Can the Minister for Housing and Construction say whether the measures taken by the Government to restimulate the home building industry have yet taken effect? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What is the Minister's reply to the widely reported and repeated criticisms of natural gas development by the New South Wales Minister for Mines and Fuel,  Mr Freudenstein?  Have those criticisms been repudiated by the General Manager of the Australian Gas Light Company? 
-The Curriculum Development Centre Bill is a progressive Bill which in a broad way seeks to enable curricula to keep pace with social change. I think that we all agree on that for a start. It is the responsibility of the educationists to prepare a child for present and later life. In my view, some people make the mistake of preparing a child for later life without concentrating also on the fact that the child is a living soul in the present. Apart from that preparation for the present and later life, there is a preparation for a changing kind of society. I would like to make a few remarks about some of the matters that have been raised by members of the Opposition. Both speakers from the Opposition who have so far spoken in this debate seemed to have misgivings which I have heard before about centralisation in Canberra. I heard all this in the debate on the Schools Commission Bill when the Government was promoting its idea of that Commission. I remember people saying that what the Canberra socialists wanted to do was to have control over . every single teacher right throughout the country and to be able to place every teacher just where Canberra wanted him or her to be placed. There is nothing of that mentioned either in the Karmel report or in this Bill with which we are dealing. One of the essential things about both of these measures and other measures this Government has introduced in the educational arena has been the concentration on diversity, innovation, freshness of ideas and cross-fertilisation of ideas. This Bill follows up the same trend. 
My friend the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  referred to his recent visit to Green Valley and the illiteracy among the children out there. It could be said that this is one good reason why all the available trained teachers that are not being employed in New South Wales ought to be employed at the present time. Testimony was received by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties which is inquiring into this matter. It was discovered that one of the reasons why these children are illiterate is because, except for kindergarten teachers, hardly any other kind of teacher at the primary or secondary level is taught how to teach children to read. These were some of the facts of the situation. I do not want to go too far on that. I agree that the essential thing that the honourable member for Bradfield stressed is that the curricula ought to be relevant. I think we all agree upon that, whatever relevance it may have to each of us. Of course, this was linked again with the misgiving that what was taught in Bourke would be the same as what is taught at Erskineville in Sydney, at Lindfield or perhaps what might be taught in some Melbourne suburb. Of course, that is not the intention of this Curriculum Development Centre. The idea of it is not only to engage in research into new forms of curricula but also to commission other independent bodies- universities, colleges of advanced education, private institutions and the Australian Council for Educational Research- to do so also. All these bodies can be commissioned to engage in pieces of research at the request of the Curriculum Development Centre. We can go on and extend what we are already doing as a result of the Karmel committee's excellent recommendation about innovation grants. I think the Minister would more than agree with me on this point. Approximately $6m has been spent on innovation grants. 
-Apparently the amount spent is up to $7.2m now. These grants are given to individual teachers, groups of teachers and in some cases to a whole system- that is, a regional group of teachers- to carry out research. 
Of course, one of the things we have to get over is the legacy of the past, the external examination ridden system of education we have had in this country whereby a child in Bourke has to sit for the same terminal examination as does the child in Sydney, Goulburn, Taree or wherever it may be in New South Wales. The same applied in each of the other States. We had an inspectorial system that reinforced this same kind of centralism. We did not have to build Canberra to get centralisation. The most centralised form of education, as in many other spheres of our activity, is within the States. Not even the creation of educational areas did away with centralisation. Not much authority was devolved on the regional or local groups of schools for the children who attended them. 
I agree there is a need for relevance and relevance must be local in many respects. As the honourable member for Stun  (Mr Wilson)  reminded us, we also live in a society that is becoming increasingly mobile not only between States of Australia but between countries. So young people have not only to know how to estimate but also what to estimate. I remember my father challenging me, when I was in fifth year of high school as it was then, to estimate the volume of a haystack. I could not do it but I could do all sons of other mathematical tricks for examinations. I could not do the real thing that was required in that locality. There has to be a local relevance and also a social relevance that enables people to be mobile. People are not only citizens of their locality and of their nation, but also citizens of the world. Therefore a research laboratory does not have to be centred on Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or even some centralised place for a group of countries; it has to reach out and co-operate with various other organisations. I do not want to talk about the functions of the Curriculum Development Centre. They were enumerated briefly by the honourable member for Bradfield. I thought they would have suggested to him and his colleagues that this Centre has as its very strong objective to consult with other people, for teachers to consult with each other and to develop teacher initiated research centres, again sponsored by the Commonwealth Government or subsidised by the Commonwealth Government. 
Two provisions of the Bill are worth noting. Firstly, the fact that the Centre will be a statutory body will ensure that the body has adequate powers to perform its set functions. On the other hand, while the body will be comprised of people with certain expertise it will in no way be confined to an ivory tower. There is provisionindeed it is seen as being quite necessary- that teachers be involved as much as possible in any inquiry into present needs, in the formulation of tentative solutions and in the ensuing development if the resulting materials and teaching approaches are to have maximum effect in classrooms. The trouble with much of our thinking is that we think that curricula means the same as syllabuses when in fact it means all the sorts of things that go on inside the classroom and on the school campus. Curricula not only involves subject content but also how lessons are taught, the inter-relationship between students, the interrelationship between teachers, and the interrelationship between teachers and students. All these things are part and parcel. The whole life that goes on in the school and on the school surroundings is part of what we are referring to as being curricula, not just syllabuses. 
Unfortunately even in the matter of syllabuses, in the past syllabuses in Australia have tended to be static and indeed much the same. As a matter of fact as with many of our, say, church practices, it is only in recent times that many of our churches have changed a good deal of their practices. The same has happened in schools. Thank goodness it has happened. The authority of the past has dictated what has gone on and what has been taught in schools. It has been thought that what has been good enough in the past would be good enough for the present. Once something gets into a text book and that text book gets into a school it is awfully difficult to replace it with something new or something that differs from it. We have relied on outmoded methods of teaching. We have relied on teaching theories about mental discipline and logical thinking. For instance, it was thought that Latin was a good subject to be learned and to be taught because it involved some kind of organised thinking and so did grammar generally. Mathematics was another subject that was justified on the basis of logical thinking. Trigonometry and geometry have been taught. Whether those subjects had relevance or were seen to have relevance to the lives of young people was immaterial. But these subjects were supposed to be inherently logical in their content and presumably in their presentation. Therefore they found their way into the curricula and they received emphasis. It was believed that a corollary of the teaching of these subjects was the transfer of training- that if one absorbed the logic that was involved in the learning of mathematics that made one a logical thinker in other spheres of life. This has not been seen to be so unless the principles of logical thinking were drawn out. Of course then there was some benefit. 
People talk about wastage. The honourable member for Bradfield talked about the things that are not taught in schools. He talked about the common things that lots of people need to know- about how to make things that might be conducive to a happy married life later on and how to fill in taxation returns. Such things should be taught but I also think there is wastage not only in what is not taught in schools but also in what is taught in schools. So many students never see the relevance of some of the things they are taught. For many of them they are never of relevance. Much of what I learned in school- I presume this applies to everyone listening to me- did not seem to have relevance to me then and has never been seen to have relevance to me since. Yet I spent many an hour in day time and in burning midnight oil on such subjects in order to pass examinations. That was the relevance of such learning. It might come in useful some day. This points up the very real need for reviewing the place of examinations by research. 
I agree with those critics who have said that research should not be centralised in one body, the Curriculum Development Centre, but should be reticulated among all other kinds of bodies. The Government is doing just this. I have already referred to the innovation grants that have been made. They have been very useful so far. This Bill provides not only for the carrying out of research into curricula. I emphasise again that curricula means more than subject content or syllabuses but all the other activities that go along with schooling. It is also important that the worthwhile findings of this research be reticulated to all other people who may not have been involved in the research. That is one of the difficult things. The practitioner in medicine finds difficulty in trying to keep up with modern research in medicine. We in Parliament have our difficulties in trying to keep up with reading in our relevant fields of inquiry. The teacher also has the same problem. Those people who think that a teacher's daily working life begins at 9 o'clock in the morning and continues to half past three in the afternoon have not had much to do with good teaching. A lot of work must be done after school hours and during the so-called lengthy vacation periods. Therefore the results of the research carried out by this body and by other bodies that it will support must also get out into a much wider field and enrich the whole educational spectrum. 
One could talk about a number of things but I will not delay the House. I have tried to make the point and re-emphasise the point of relevance. This Bill is not concerned with centralising control in Canberra. Above ail, it is not concerned with producing a Canberra-based text book which will be on issue all over Australia. Rather its purpose is to give encouragement- financial encouragement and advisory encouragement- to other bodies so that they may engage in research; to support individual teachers; and then to make sure that their findings and research reach other people, and that those people in turn have opportunities in their teaching careers to peruse and study the findings of the research and have the chance and the professional freedom to try out those ideas in their class-rooms. 
That will not be done if a teacher has 28 or 30 teaching periods a week. It will not be done if teachers are overloaded with too many lessons to teach and classes that are too large. If their time is taken up after school hours having to read through 40, 50 or maybe 100 compositions they will not have very much time to absorb all these sorts of things. So when professional teacher bodies make a plea for more effective teacherclass ratios, for opportunities to engage in vacational study, for opportunities to visit other places and other States, for opportunities of exchange between teachers in other States and between teachers in other school systems such as between private and public school systems- a lot more could be done about that in Australia- all these things should be facilitated. When these sorts of things are done teaching and learningeducation will start to mean a lot more than it means today. I hope that this Bill, along with other measures that this Government and its predecessors initiated, will go on to do those sorts of things and that young children will not feel that 'education ' is a slavish activity or a distasteful activity but rather something refreshing, relevant to their needs, and something which will not only be helpful to them to earn a living or to pass an examination but will also be a rich living experience. I commend the Bill. 
1 also have given an undertaking not to speak at length on this Bill because of the pressure of other business, but I would like to express my wholehearted support for it. As has been stated a number of times already, this Bill is yet another important contribution by the Whitlam Government to the development of educational opportunities for a very wide variety of people in Australia. It will create not only further opportunities but also continuing opportunities, or what is called recurrent education. The Bill will make it possible for people who might have missed out on the opportunity previously or who might not have felt the need for training previously to come back at some later stage in their life and take up either a technical college course or a course in some institute of further education. 
I would like to emphasise a few points that have occurred to me. Firstly I want to comment on the hang-up, as it has been called, among members of the Opposition regarding centralisation in Canberra. I have nothing to add to what I said about this matter this afternoon when debating another Bill. We heard it said that the Schools Commission was going to be a highly centralised system in Canberra. It has turned out to be anything but that. As a matter of fact the Australian Government, by coming in with a national effort on behalf of education, has created more opportunities for diversity, innovation and improvisation than we ever knew before. There is more experimentation in education today than there has ever looked like being at any time in our history. Here we have another opportunity being provided in the field of education in terms of technical education. As one who has had some professional association with technical education I say that this Bill is well overdue. 
If there is one area of the field of education in Australia that can be branded as the  Cinderella  of education it is in fact technical education. Many of the buildings in which technical education takes place resemble some of the dingy factories from which the apprentices come to do their part time training. The conditions under which training is conducted in technical colleges is in many cases to be absolutely deplored. I will grant that the newer technical colleges that have come into being are a vast improvement. They are a joy for any teacher to teach in and for students to learn in. But there are all too many technical education institutions that still have dingy, noisy, illventilated premises and obsolete machinery when in fact they should be giving the lead to industrial development in the community. They have all those disadvantages and they have gone on for quite a long time in that state. Is it any wonder that there has been the wastage that has occurred in the field of technical education. I think that the number of students who undertake technical education courses and who do not complete them easily exceeds the proportion in any other form of education in Australia; yet, as we have been reminded by other speakers, technical education caters for more students than any other form of education in Australia. Approximately half a million students attend technical education in one form or another. If one adds to that the other institutions conducting further education, one starts to appreciate how important is this Bill. 1 have spoken about the disabilities in terms of buildings, machinery and so on. There are also the disabilities so far as the teachers are concerned. I hope that the technical education teachers will not take offence when I say that they are probably less professionally prepared for their job than most other teachers. That is no fault of those teachers. In most cases in my own State of New South Wales a person is selected because of his skill in the content of his subject and is put before a class before he has had virtually any teacher training. Those people do their teacher training concurrently with their first and second years of teaching. There is then a wastage among many of those teachers who have to deal with the young adolescents who, with all their vim and freshness, can make it very difficult for a teacher who has had little training in the subject of teaching. So there is a fairly high turnover of teachers for that reason. 
One of the other notable features of this Bill is that it does not look at technical and further education in the narrow sense of turning out people just to serve the needs of industry. It provides for the turning out of citizens who have had their education rounded off. Its provisions do not necessarily apply only to young citizens. I believe that there are people as old as 70 and 80 years of age who are today attending certain courses at technical colleges. The emphasis is being given to continuing on the general educational strand as well as the technical or vocational strand of education. I hope the House will forgive me if I concentrate my remarks mainly on technical rather than further education. Because of the pressure of time, I have no alternative but to do so. 
Technical education teachers are now becoming better prepared for their task. A commission of inquiry is investigating that very matter at the present time. They can now attend not only to the vocational training of their students but also to their social development, to their intellectual development and to the development of their personalities. I hope that the teachers will give more attention to the physical development of their students as well. If there is one notable feature about a technical college campus it is the lack in many cases of opportunity for extra curricula activities to be indulged in. One may do so at a university, although some universities are deficient in that regard. One usually finds more generous sporting ovals, gymnasiums and so on at colleges of advanced education because by and large they happen to be new institutions. But technical education is by its very nature, because of the fact that in many cases persons attend such institutions on a part time basis and often at night after a day's work, denied the kind of opportunity of social contact and the kind of social development that one would wish it to have. 
I hope also that the community will adopt a different and more favourable attitude to technical education. It seems to be the last resort among parents. At the end of a child's school career, whether it be terminated at fourth form, sixth form or some earlier stage, parents seem in many cases to look at everything else before they look at technical education and, if everything else fails, to say: 'We had better try to see whether he can do a trade or some kind of certificate course'. Let us recognise that the economic and social fabric of this country is very dependent indeed upon technical education. Our society is becoming more industrialised every day. The people who attend technical colleges have to play their part as much as any other citizen in the social work of the community. Therefore it is so important that people get away from the idea of drawing distinctions between blue collar and white collar workers. Great respect should be shown to the people who, in many cases under conditions of hardship, go through a technical education course. As I have said, in many cases those courses are conducted on a part time basis at night after a day's work. The need for technicians and technologists as well as tradesmen in our community is increasing all the time and, quite frankly, there are very remunerative opportunities for people who persist and who complete those courses. The Kangan report referred to some of the other deficiencies in technical education and further education. It was found that the needs of handicapped people were overlooked in terms of buildings, for instance. It is pretty nearly impossible for somebody with some kind of physical disability to be able to even move around in a technical college. 
The courses were seen as unfair because of the age limits. We have had our phobia that only people under 1 8 or so can enter trades courses. I hope again our community attitudes are going to change. I hope trade unions' attitudes will change, and I say that as a Labor man. I hope that employers will be given greater encouragement also to take on older people who may have missed out on the opportunity for a trades course in their earlier years and ended up being labourers. I hope that they get the chance to be released from industry and to go back. It would be not only in the interests of the individual; it would also be in the interests of the community itself. I am glad to see that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  along with the Minister for Education, is paying attention to that aspect as well. There are other disabilities. Women have great difficulty. There is a tradition in this country that women do not take on trades courses. They seem to be barred from them. Yet in the few cases that they have taken them on they have excelled. In some cases they have topped the engineering course and trade courses allied to it. 
I have been given an indication that my speaking time has almost expired.There are so many things listed in the Kangan report that need attention that I hope it will be given diligent attention by the new Commission. I hope that the teachers who teach in technical education particularly will benefit by the inquiry that is coming near to finality now under the chairmanship of a very distinguished gentleman,  Dr Sam  Cohen, of Macquarie University who is also a member of the Commission on Advanced Education. 
I hope that there will be benefit from the $250,000 that the Minister for Education has made available for research into all sorts of alternatives in technical and further education. These were only announced on 7 April, and there are some very interesting projects that people are undertaking. Not very much research has been done in any of our education but probably least of all in technical education. Technical education, which should give leadership to industry, often lags behind industry, and there is less respect by the apprentices who attend it because of that state of affairs. I hope this Bill will help rectify that state and give an impetus that technical education and further education deserve. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the many anxious inquiries being received by honourable members from constituents regarding their position under the hospital provisions of Medibank as from 1 July? These inquiries arise particularly in the nonparticipating States controlled by Liberal and Australian Country Party governments. Can the Minister give any further information at this stage as to the likelihood of any or all of those States deciding to co-operate? What would be the earliest date at which such State participation could become effective? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements in respect of each political party on each radio broadcasting station and television station in Australia in each of the last 10 years. 
Is the Minister for Education aware of reports that the inadequate supply of finance for technical education in the various States is currently a matter of considerable concern? Has the Australian Government been making substantial funds available to State governments for this important sector of education? If so, is the Minister satisfied that these funds, in addition to normal State government expenditure, are being directed to technical education? 
-The House is debating 2 Bills, the Social Services Bill 1975 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who has just resumed his seat was the first  speaker  in the debate who has made reference to the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill we are debating conjointly with the Social Services Bill. I am pleased to note his interest in that matter. I take it that he is voicing, on behalf of the Opposition, support for the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill along with support- which has already been indicated but sometimes with some qualifications- by the Opposition for the Social Services Bill. 
I agree with the honourable member for Herbert that it would be nice to be able to extend extra benefits to the dependants of recipients of war service pensions. I think it would be nice also to abolish the means test for those aged 60 to 65 who are on a Service pension, or to hold out the prospect of abolishing the means test. We are reminded, on the other hand, of the pleas of the Opposition that the Government should cut expenditure. I wonder whether anybody on the Opposition side has contemplated how much extra it will cost- in addition to the $600m which will be required for these 2 Bills- to implement the 2 measures to which the honourable member for Herbert referred. That is saying nothing about the other controversial element that has been entered into this debate- whether we should phase out the 65 to 70 means test for all aged persons over a longer time than we contracted to do during the election campaign. I think it is true, as one critic said, that it takes a lot of courage sometimes to renege on a policy promise. 
Yes, to back pedal, withdraw or amend in relation to the changed circumstances with which one is confronted. We have been charged with having maladministered the Australian economy, with special reference in this debate to the development of unemployment at a much greater scale in Australia than I or, I am sure, anybody else would wish. But this morning I was listening to the Australian Broadcasting Commission 'AM' program and I heard reference to the fact that in the United States, where there is considerable economic and technological expertise, at present the rate of unemployment is running at more than 9 per cent and inflation is running along with it. Various countries that we regard as having sophisticated economies likewise are in the same dire straits. So if anyone has the recipe for overcoming this problem plenty of countries would be willing to have it and would probably pay dearly for it. 
-Some countries have changed governments but that has not necessarily achieved the desired result. 

 Mr REYNOLDS America has a Republican government which I suppose is equivalent to the Opposition here. To change the Ford administration might not be a bad idea either but I will not buy into the problems of other countries; we have enough of our own. The Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill is one further step by this Government in what I regard as an epochmaking crusade on behalf of veterans and the dependants of veterans of all wars who fought on Australia's behalf. Things have happened in the last  2Vi  years that I never thought would happen during the previous 1 1/2 years when I was an Opposition member of this Parliament. Things have happened during the  2lh  years of the Whitlam Labor Government that I think many people would never have expected from a government that was supposed to be a pacifist government- a government allegedly not interested in defence. Things have been done in the repatriation field without honourable members crowing that the Returned Services League and ex-service bodies had direct access to the Cabinet of the day. The Government has introduced measures for humanitarian reasons and out of gratitude to all those ex-servicemen and ex-service women who have died and left dependants and those who are still with us but who have incurred disabilities. We have done our best to try to recompense them for the sacrifices they have made. 
In speaking to this Bill the honourable member for Herbert summarised some of its provisions. The highest rate of pension- the totally and permanently incapacitated pension- is to be increased by yet another $4. This is on top of an increase made in I think, November. This will raise the TPI pension to $68.10. In the limited time at my disposal I shall show honourable members that most single TPI pensioners will get a lot more than $68.10. The intermediate rate pension for those ex-servicemen suffering disabilities which interrupt but do not prevent their work capacity or work operations will be raised by $3.50 to $48.05. What is called the general rate or 100 per cent pension rate will be increased by $3 to $28 a week. The war and defence widow's pension will be increased by $5 a week to $36 a week and the standard rate of service pension, which has already been mentioned as equivalent to an age or an invalid pension, will be increased by $5 a week to $36 a week. The married rate will be increased by $4.25 to $30 a week for each of the marriage partners. The means test on service pensions, as for age pensions provided under the Social Services Bill, will be abolished for all persons now 70 years of age or more. Already it has been abolished for those 75 years or more. Now we are taking it a further step to apply to those aged 70 to 74 years. 
War pensioners will get a further increase in pension because many war pensioners receiving the TPI rate will probably also be eligible for a very sizeable increase in their service pension since we have taken the second step towards wiping out from the means test the war pension and allowances that are provided for such war pensioners. I calculated, and I had the legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library check it for me to ensure that it was correct, that a single TPI pensioner will have half of his war pension of $68.10 disregarded for means test purposes. That will mean that not only will he get the $4 increase in his TPI pension but he will also gain another $8.50 in his service pension entitlement providing he has no more than $400 in savings. I know this sounds a little complicated, but the sum total of pension increase for such a TPI ex-serviceman will not go up by only the $4; it will in fact go up by $12.50 a week, after having had an increase back in November last. This would apply for other pensioners. 
Dealing with figures in a debate like this when people do not have the figures in front of them is a difficult task. It is difficult to indicate the position so I will not labour the point. But I wish the House to take note that many war pensioners will be entitled to substantial increases in service pensions as well as their war pensions. They will be a lot better off than even it appears in the figures that I have cited. That is just one sample. With the indulgence of the House, I should like to have incorporated in Hansard a table which has been shown to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He has no objection to its incorporation. The table shows the increases in various war pensions since 1965-66 to 1974-75. 

<graphic href="094131197505133_45_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The table indicates the increases in pensions over the years, firstly in relation to average weekly earnings per male unit employed and secondly in relation to the consumer price index. This afternoon I heard the question asked whether pensioners are better off today than they were two or three years ago. I invite honourable members to go along to pensioner organisations, as I have done. Almost every individual there will say that he is substantially better off than he was. The table shows this in statistical terms. I will not bore the House by quoting from it. It shows that in some cases the pension rate has increased by more than twice the rate of increase in prices as measured by the consumer price index. The reality of the situation is the amount of goods and services that can be provided with the current pension, which is increased twice a year instead of, as in the past, sometimes only once in 2 years and then only by 50c or $1. Pensioners are a lot better off today than they were in the past. This is evidenced by the number of pensioner organisations that nowadays are able to go on picnics, travel interstate and go on bus trips. This is a wonderful thing to see. The pensioners enjoy each others' company in the senior citizens centres, for the erection of which this Government has doubled the rate of subsidy. 
I do not want to take up the time of the House unduly but I would be remiss if I did not mention briefly some of the things that this Government has done in the last 216 years. I have alluded to some of the things contained in this Bill. There have been increases in a variety of compensation payments over and above price rises. The table that has been incorporated in Hansard will vindicate that. There has been the progressive disregarding of the war pension as income for the means test applying to the Service pension. The Government started off by disregarding one-quarter of the pension. Now it has disregarded another quarter. So half the war pension does not count for means test purposes. Lots of other people in the community would like to think that their superannuation, for instance, could be so disregarded for means test purposes. 
Members of the defence forces of British Commonwealth countries are now eligible for Service pensions providing that they have been resident in this country for 10 yean. Many British exservicemen who took their discharge in Australia at the end of World War I or World War II and who have paid taxes in this country for years ask why they cannot receive the benefits of a Service pension in the country of their adoption. It has happened now, and it has happened under a Labor Government. Then there is the matter of portability of pensions which works the other way. Persons who have received pensionswhether they are Australian born or exservicemen and women from British Commonwealth countries- like other kinds of pensioners in the community will be able to take thenbenefits with them to some other country and retire there if they wish to do so. This Australian Government has pledged to pay them that pension for the rest of their lives. 
The Government will provide free repatriation hospitalisation and medical treatment for veterans of the Boer War and of World War I. Exservice organisations have been asking for this for many years. The Returned Services League has had it in its pension plan. The matter has been raised in this Parliament but nothing happened under any previous government. Within  Vh  years under the Labor Government all these things have happened. All those ex-servicemen from World War I and the Boer War- there are not many Boer War veterans left now- will be automatically entitled to full repatriation hospital and medical treatment. The Government will provide a subsidy for nursing home care for the treatment of ex-servicemen suffering disabilities which are not caused by war. This will be a big help to those people. If they are not eligible to enter a repatriation hospital they can be heavily subsidised in nursing homes. One thing that has been asked for for years and which is now provided is the requirement that the repatriation boards and the entitlement appeal tribunals give reasons why they reject an application for a war pension. If an ex-serviceman or woman feels that he or she has a just claim, he or she applies for pension. If it is rejected it will now be compulsory for the tribunal to give reasons for the rejection. That will enable the applicant to make a further appeal in the knowledge of why he was knocked back in his initial application. This will help him in his task. 
I will mention only a few more of these benefits which have come about in the mere  2lA  years since Labor took office. I refer to the recognition of de facto wives and the provision for exnuptial children. This is a humanitarian act by the Government. The use of repatriation hospitals will be extended. Beds in repatriation hospitals were unused while many patients outsidecivilians as well as wives and children of exservicemen who were looking for hospital accommodation were not able to receive it. These beds will now be made available. This is not only a very humanitarian benefit for the patients but also it gives a broader experience to the medical staff who operate in repatriation hospitals. I have already referred to the abolition of the means test. There will be an extension of benefits to children of ex-servicemen and women. It will no longer stop at 16 years of age. If the child happens to be in full-time education the benefits will continue. The funeral benefit has been doubled from $50 to $100. Nonrepatriation patients have been granted access to the repatriation artificial limb and appliance centres. Many civilians are now able to make use of the wonderful expertise that is available at repatriation hospitals after the amputation of a limb or some other such treatment. 
The treatment of cancer sufferers is a very humanitarian act and one for which I pleaded for many years. I would like the Government to take the step I advocated when in Opposition- many others did the same- and to make cancer an automatically accepted war disability. The Government has gone to the extent of saying that cancer sufferers automatically receive treatment. Now I want it to go one further step. All those who were prisoners of war now automatically receive full repatriation hospital and medical treatment. One would have thought that this would have happened long before this. Honourable members will see that in the sphere of repatriation the Government has done a job that has earned very high praise from the ex-service organisations of this country. They have called it what I started out by calling it- epoch making, historic. It is a tremendous development and it has all happened in 216 years. 
-I have listened to this debate over the considerable length of time in which the Bill was considered at the second reading stage and now in the Committee stage. I must say that I have been in somewhat of a tortured mental conflict as to the attitude that I should take. I do not imagine there are a great many of us who have not had some qualms about just what specific approach we should take in respect of this Bill. However, at this stage, I have come to the conclusion- it will remain my view unless I am persuaded otherwise- that I should support the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  As my words would indicate, I cannot be dogmatic in my attitude. I can see a lot of virtue in the arguments that have been put for retaining the Bill as it is. In fact, I supported the second reading of the Bill. But I did not do so with the intention of not moving or supporting amendments which I would regard as improving the contents of the Bill. It has been said already that about 95 per cent of divorce actions are uncontested and that, therefore, we are dealing with only 4 per cent or 5 per cent of divorce cases. But I would remind the Committee that what we are dealing with here is the situation as it exists under the present law, and as it has existed over recent years. The situation could be quite different with a change of that law. One of the main reasons why I am persuaded to support the proposition for a separation period of 2 years- this is in the case of unilateral action where one party to a marriage wants a divorce and the other party does not want a divorce- is that the hope might well still be there that there could be a reconciliation. 
This Bill does provide some noble improvements. That is one of the reasons why I supported the second reading of this Bill. I will not bother to outline those improvements now as, otherwise, I would not have the time to say what I really want to say about this amendment. The second reason why I support the separation period of 2 years rather than one year in a unilateral action is that I think that one year is insufficient time to establish or to maintain the type of psychology in the community by which people expect a marriage to be a lifelong union. The reduction of the separation period from 5 years to one year would produce the sorts of results that we have seen occur in other countries, possibly due to that cause, in which marriage takes on the concept of being something that one can put on and take off like a shoe. There is a notion that it is not of a permanent nature. Therefore, I am concerned not only with the individual cases but also with the general psychology that pervades the whole of our community in relation to the marriage relationship. 
I am one of those, old fashioned if honourable members like, who still think that the perpetuation of the family unit is the bulwark of our society. Anything that takes away from that ideal, I think, can be adverse. I am supporting- I am quite happy to support with a little reluctancethe second part of this amendment which provides that dissolution of marriage after one year can occur where there is mutual consent to the divorce. I somewhat even more reluctantly support the third element of the amendment which provides that where there is just cause arising from the behaviour of one of the partners of a marriage the other partner should be able to seek the dissolution of that marriage under a period of one year's separation. But, essentially, I support the amendment because I think it might do something to retain that psychology, if I can put it that way, in the community that gives force to  the perpetuation of marriage as an institution to be preserved. 
Can the Minister for Housing and Construction say what action the Government has taken and is likely to take to improve access for disabled people to government buildings? 
It seems extraordinary that we should have this motion put before us this morning- not that I am without some sympathy for it- following straight after the previous motion calling for further Government expenditure. These are 2 measures seeking increased Government expenditure. The first proposal involved hundreds of millions of dollars in respect of farmers. This motion calls for expenditure in respect of social welfare benefits. This Government has been accused of spending too much, particularly on social welfare. I should like the Opposition to tell us on which items it would increase expenditure and on which ones it would cut it. It is all very well for the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  to say: 'We have written down what we intend to do about this business of supplementary assistance'. I suppose the Menzies Government in 1939, all those years ago, wrote down that it was going to bring in a system of national superannuation. We are still waiting for it. The only hope we have of being likely to get it is under the present Government. In 1949 the Menzies Opposition, as it then was, promised to abolish the means test. It did not do it. We get all these recommendations when the Opposition Parties are in Opposition but their practice in government does not measure up in any way towards their promises. 
Of course the simple fact of the matter as everybody knows is that more has been done for social welfare beneficiaries under this Government than was done under any previous government. Of course I think there is a case for increasing the supplementary assistance allowance. But it is a simple case that we cannot do everything. As has already been mentioned we have done something for those who work in sheltered workshops. We have relaxed considerably the means test in respect of earnings so that those people can retain their supplementary assistance and we have gone on to encourage more of these people who are aged or disabled to enter sheltered workshops. We have made available very generous subsidies to the organisations conducting sheltered workshops. That is to be considered in addition to the $1 a week increase in supplementary assistance which we have made available in our 2% years in office. 
I remind the House that apart from this item of supplementary assistance, that affects, I suppose, less than one in eight pensioners, we have done a great deal for all pensioners. I shall cite briefly what we have done. In respect of the married rate of pension for age, invalid and service pensioners, it has been increased in our  2h  years in office by 73.9 per cent- nearly 74 per cent. However, the consumer price index has increased by only 36.3 per cent. In other words we have increased the pension for married couples by more than twice the percentage by which the consumer price index has increased. For the basic rate pensioner receiving the single rate pension, which is the much more numerous type of pension in the community, we have increased that pension by 80 per cent as against this 36.3 per cent increase in the consumer price index. In other words we have increased it by well over twice as much as the CPI. The same could be said about the class A widows pension. It has been increased by 80 per cent. The class B widows pension has been increased by 108.6 per cent and the class C widows pension has been increased by 108.6 per cent. The married couple sickness beneficiaries payment has increased by 140 per cent. I remind the House that all these increases can be compared with an increase of only 33.6 per cent in the consumer price index over the period of time to the end of 1 974. So the Government has done a great deal to assist pensioners in general and social service beneficiaries. 
We have done something- we would like to do more- in regard to those receiving supplementary assistance. I think it might even be considered that we ought to do something for those who are paying off their homes ahd who have to meet a high rate burden. I think there is a case for them too, particularly those who have only just started paying off their homes. Once they become purchasers of their own homes they are ineligible for supplementary assistance. Certainly, they receive some benefits from State governments by way of subsidy towards the paying off of their homes. They are building up an equity in the ownership of their homes, but I still think there is a case for them and there is a case for other people who have other types of calls upon them who deserve some kind of extra benefit over and above the basic pension. 
I remind the House that although the Government does increase supplementary assistance all too infrequently, when it is increased the increase is gobbled up by increased rental charges. In that regard it is notable that owners of private dwellings tend to increase rents much more readily than do governments. We make accusations against State government housing authorities which sometimes put up their rents before pensions or supplementary assistance, or both, are increased. That happened recently. We are in the process of increasing the pension presently. The increase will take effect from 1 May, but pensioners will not receive that increase until the beginning of next month. However, in many cases rents have already gone up. 
I agree that it would be desirable both for the supplementary assistance allowance to be increased and also for the means test affecting it to be lightened. But the simple fact is that we have to make choices. We are examining much more comprehensive schemes, such as the national superannuation scheme, which possibly may take account of a variety of circumstances, not just those relating to the paying of rent. Some of those who are paying rent are not all that badly off. Others are in a much worse position. The situation varies considerably. In my view our whole scheme of social welfare needs to be much more flexible. It needs to take account of a whole variety of circumstances. As I have said, in  2ยฝ  years this Government has done a considerable amount. 
A lot of people have accused us of trying to do too much in a hurry. We are being accused of this by some people for carrying out our promise in respect to abolishing the means test. They say that we are giving benefits to people who do not need them. We did give a pledge and we are trying our best, given the circumstances of the economy, to carry through our pledges in that regard. But at the same time we are getting various calls not only in the matter of social welfare but also in relation to education, primary producers, secondary industry, the promoting of exports, the building of houses and in the alleviating of problems of those people who suffer from natural disasters. All these are calls on the Government purse. 
And the unemployed, and this is not the first time we have had unemployed in this country. 
-That is all very well. Unemployment has happened cyclically every 5 years, even under the previous government. We are trying to meet that situation. In humanitarian terms we are doing a lot more to help those who are unemployed or who happen to be sick than our predecessors every contemplated doing. The Government is building more homes for the aged, either directly itself or through State government authorities, housing commissions, private organisations and the like. These are all matters that will help those pensioners who are confronted with having to pay rent. 
I am not so sure if we eased the means test for pensioners that many more pensioners would go into the work force. There is the matter of inclination and many of them may think they have done their fair share of toil during their lives and that they are entitled not to work. I would expect at least 80 per cent of those who have reached retirement ago to be content to call that the end of their working life, though I am not speaking in terms of work involved in looking after their own homes or taking up some activity in society. I am speaking in terms of going out to work regularly. I do not think a great many would be induced to take up work simply because we eased the means test for pensioners. Easing the means test would be more likely to help those who have savings, superannuation and the like. 
Also I do not think that supplementary assistance will do as much as we think it will. However, having committed ourselves to providing supplementary assistance, and it does benefit about a quarter of a million recipients in our community at present, we should make an effort in terms of other commitments that we have to do what we can to ease the means test and, at the appropriate time, to increase further the amount of supplementary assistance which pensioners are allowed to receive. I have indicated that it might have been our opponents' policy to increase supplementary assistance but not do very much for the vast bulk of pensioners. This was one of the devices I saw used over the years by the previous government, to do something for a comparatively - 
Motion (by  Mr Wentworth)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security noted an article on Medibank in today's 'Sydney Morning Herald' by John O'Hara? Is this article an accurate reflection of Medibank as proposed by both the legislation and the guidelines enunciated by the Australian Government, or does it bear a remarkable resemblance to New South Wales propaganda? 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Will the Treasurer indicate what the proposed new income tax arrangements in respect of education expenses incurred by parents on behalf of their student children will mean as compared with the existing provisions? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. Yesterday his attention was drawn to a symposium on defence being organised by a group of retired defence force officers. Can he say whether this rush of interest among people, some of whom have been retired for many years, reflects any significant change in the defence situation of the nation? 
-One of these nights I will again bring along an extract from  Hansard  of a year or two ago containing an answer to a question I asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  regarding the number, nature and term of political appointments made by our opponents when they were in government for 23 years. I will leave it at that. 
Naturally, this Budget has several specific objectives. Broadly, through the Budget and other measures, the aim is to establish economic, social and cultural satisfaction for all citizens. It is not a case of restoring prosperity and opportunities for all, because sizeable areas of chronic poverty and deprivation have always been with us. Much of it has been hidden from view and deliberately ignored. There is ample testimony of that in the poverty survey, copies of which were placed in honourable members' rooms today. It shows that 1,250,000 people are living on the brink of dire poverty in an affluent country such as this. Even in this last quarter of the 20th century there are political leaders- themselves born into affluence- who preach the old doctrine of self-reliance and individuality to the millions who, through accident of birth, are deprived of the full opportunity of helping themselves. 
Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech indicates that the most immediate and challenging economic task before us is to set out to lower inflationary expectations. People are counting on prices going up. They adjust their salary and wage claims accordingly. Businessmen set their prices in expectation of inflated prices. So, as I say, one of the most important tasks confronting us is to lower this expectation of inflationary increases. This is a necessary prelude to an actual decline in inflationary trends. Allied to this is the necessity to develop consumer and business confidence. As the Government recognises, therein lies the key to growth through increased investment. One of the major objectives of this Budget is to promote private investment. The Government hopes that such growth will be characterised by full employment, reasonable business profitability and a satisfactory provision and distribution of community facilities and resources. 
Let us look at the steps this Government has taken in the Budget and in allied measures to combat inflation. One may say that there is a high rate of inflation, but I ask: Could that level of inflation have been much higher had it not been for the measures that have been taken? More immediately, the rate of increase in expenditure in the Budget this financial year will be slashed in half. The rate of increase will be halved, from 46 per cent in the 1974-75 Budget down to 23 per cent. In real terms, in purchasing power, it implies only a modest increase in spending this year. The new personal income tax system, besides being much simpler and much more equitable, is also an incentive for people to work harder and longer. Because of the reduction in the number of taxation brackets from 14 to 7, income earners will have much less reason to believe that the benefits of extra effort and extra earnings, and extra jobs, will be lost as a result of being pushed up into a higher taxation bracket. It is simply a matter of the brackets being much wider. As a result of the taxation measures incorporated in the Budget a person can achieve a considerable increase in his income without being escalated into a higher taxation bracket. There should be fewer demands for substantial increases in wage and salary awards to offset the previously penalising effects of taxation. 
Another measure which has been taken, both in this Budget and in previous Budgets, is the introduction of training and re-training schemes. These have been brought in to support apprenticeship and trade training and are meant to protect our productive future. There are now 608 000 people undertaking technical training compared with 400 000 people undertaking such training when the Labor Government came to office less than 3 years ago. When Liberal governments were in power apprenticeshipwithout government support, or with very little of it- fell away markedly during the regular cycles of recession periods which the Australian economy suffered. To listen to Opposition speakers one would think that this was the first recession in our economic history. Under the Liberal-Country Party governments we had a recession at least every 5 years-in 1951, 1956, 1961, 1966 and 1971. The McMahon Government did not go out of office because we were overloaded with affluence. Of course, when the boom period ultimately came after these recession periods under these Liberal-Country Party governments there was a great shortage of skilled tradesmen in all facets of industry and commerce. Naturally, the price for such labour, when obtainable, escalated and was reflected in the price of goods. 
A fourth means of combating inflation is through the trade practices legislation. It took a Labor Government to put real teeth into the law governing restrictive trade practices. I have been in this Parliament for a reasonable length of time- I think this is my fourteenth year- and I remember the promises made by  Sir Garfield  Barwick when he was Attorney-General to introduce strong restrictive trade practices legislation. The only thing wrong with  Sir Garfield  Barwick as far as the Liberal Party was concerned was that he was fair dinkum and so they had to get him out of this place. As a result, we went on with a very watered down form of restrictive trade practices legislation. Without such legislation competition was much less likely. If the legislation brought in by this Government had not existed, inflation could have been much worse. We could have had inflation at the rate of 25 per cent or 30 per cent as in the case of many other countries. 
In the current law there is for the first time in this country provision for consumer protection and measures to deal with mergers, price discrimination and exclusive dealings. Some very interesting cases are being dealt with under our restrictive trade practices legislation at present. For example, in the matter of exclusive dealing a case involving Total Australia Ltd is before the Australian Industrial Court at the moment. PubUc hearings are being held into the agreement between the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd and service station operators. There are also hearings into the 'tied house' arrangements of Tooth and Tooheys, brewers. All these things are price setters. People deny the Australian Government the right to set prices but there are plenty of other private price setters in the community which aid the inflationary trends. 
I refer again to consumer protection. It is an important part of the fight against inflation that consumers obtain a fair deal in the quality and quantity of the goods and services they buy. This Government already has a legal basis for protecting consumers. Further legislation to be introduced shortly by the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who I am glad to note is at the table at the moment, will give very strong protection to see that consumers are not cheated by unscrupulous firms. There have been plenty of examples of that. My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  referred a little while ago to the Australian legal aid service. It has a lot to do in the policing of these cheating and defrauding people who operate in the community. In recent times the Sharp Corporation of Australia was fined $100,000 for falsely claiming that microwave ovens were of a particular standard. Hammersmith Storage Module Co. was ordered to pay $2,238.20 to 65 persons misled by the company's advertisement. Many other examples could be cited. For all the years the Liberal and Country parties were in government they only pretended an interest in these matters. As a result, Australia fell years behind in protecting the public- whether it was in the marketplace or on the stock exchanges. I think that we all know enough about that subject without any recital from me tonight. Have we any reason to believe that our conservative opponents have really changed their attitude in these vitally important matters which affect the mass of the public? 
Another tool with which to fight inflation, and which was introduced by this Government, is the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has pledged to abolish it. In 1973-74 and 1974-75 the Tribunal processed over 1 1 300 proposed price increases. Many were approved unaltered without public inquiry. In most cases companies, after discussion with the Tribunal, accepted smaller price rises than were originally proposed. We have to recognise that it is the duty of all to pull our weight in this fight against inflation. It is not just a matter of the Government tackling this problem. The community, the Parliament and the whole of society are involved. No doubt it will call for sacrifices. This Budget provides for some. No doubt the Budget disappointed the hopes of some groups of citizens. But if the outcome is a return to general broadly based prosperity the sacrifices will have been a very good investment. 
There are some hints of improvement already showing up to which I would like to allude. Firstly I refer to the recent Government loan record. Alan Wood, the Economics Editor of the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 27 August wrote, in part: 
The Australian Government has attracted a strong cash subscription to the August loan- a record $68 1 .7m. 
A significant proportion of the funds reportedly flowed into the loan post-Budget 
The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  reasonably in my view, interpreted this happy loan result as a return of investor confidence and respect for the Budget strategy. Secondly, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, known as the OECD, comprised of 24 advanced western countries including Australia, recently carried out a survey of the Australian economy. It expressed the view that the downturn in our economy may have bottomed out and that the economy may be recovering, even if somewhat slowly. It added that the measure of that recovery would depend on our willingness- the willingness of all of us- to combat inflation. Also the June quarter national income figures just released point to some hopeful glimmers of an improved economic climate. I ask the community to give this Government a fair trial over the next twelve or eighteen months and then make its judgment. We will then be ready to accept that judgment. I invite that judgment with much confidence. 
I refer now to the many voices of the Liberal and National Country Parties. The Leader of the Opposition has called for heavy cuts in public expenditure to give more scope for private enterprise. I think there is something to be said for that, although I think too much is made altogether of an alleged distinction between public enterprise and private enterprise. I think for instance, of the great Snowy Mountains project most of the work on which was carried out by private contract. Much of the work on housing commission homes in the various States, on schools and on many of the great public works on our roads and public transport, is carried out by private enterprise- by private people and private firms. So there is this intimate interdependence between public and private expenditure and endeavour. 
The Leader of the Opposition has been reasonably specific in some instances about what public works he would cut out.  His  proposals include a zero growth rate for the Public Service. I remember that a few years ago the right honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies, who was then Prime Minister, made a similar promise that he would cut down the size of the Public Service. He ended up the year with 10 000 more public servants than he started the year with. I am a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts that looks into public expenditure. I can assure honourable members that many of the complaints that come before us regarding ill prepared accounts arise from shortage of staff. This problem still exists. While we have an expansionary Government that wants to do something about providing more schools, more public transport, more help for industry and so on we shall need public services. I think that anybody who makes rash statements about containing the growth of the Public Service wants to have another think. 
As I said, the Leader of the Opposition promised to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. I have commented on that, and the honourable members opposite can make their own judgment on it. The honourable member for Melbourne, who was the previous  speaker  on the Government side, referred to the Australian Legal Aid Office, and what a wonderful job it is doing. I have much testimony of the work it is doing. The Leader of the Opposition intends to abolish it as part of his economy measures, to give more money to other people. There is to be a winding back- a beautiful euphemistic term- of government capital works. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'We would have sold the pharmaceutical corporation'. It just so happens that we have not actually bought it yet so that is how irresponsible the speech of the Leader of the Opposition was. 
That is a proposal. As I say, we have not bought it yet. Selling off the natural gas pipeline is another one of the economy measures of the Leader of the Oppositon He also proposes disposing of the Department of the Media. Oh yes, that is a great hobbyhorse; that is something we can all knock- this bloated thing called the Media Department. However, we forget that the Department contains many officers, journalists and other people who, if they were not gathered together in that Department as a separate entity would be dispersed throughout many other departments of government in this country. So it is just irresponsible to say that the Opposition would wipe out the Department of the Media. If the Department were to be wiped out many of its employees would be relocated less efficiently in other departments. 
The leader of the Opposition said that he could save at least one billion dollars if he really put his hand to it. Much of what he- had to say is very vague, but millions of people who have been aided by Labor's welfare and education programs would, in my view, have a lot to worry about. While the Leader of the Opposition is busily chopping into public expenditure in this 
Parliament,  in every Liberal-Country Party governed State, Premiers and Ministers in turn are grizzling about how the wretched Labor Government in Canberra is forcing them to cut back on their public works programs. How irresponsible can you get? Where does this all add up? We have the contradiction of the Federal Opposition wanting to cut back and on the other hand its counterparts in the States screaming for more money for more public works. The States complain about schools and hospitals that will not be built, transport that will be starved and public servants who will have to be laid off. Just where does this motley crowd of spokesmen for the Liberal-Country Party stand? 
What are the fact's? In this year's Budget there is provision for only a 23 per cent increase in expenditure on 'the part of the Australian Government. Much of that, of course, is accounted for by inflation in part but also population increase and development of services that are already in being are factors. This Government has halved the rate of increase provided in last year's Budget. But this Government has provided for an increase of not~23 per cent, as it did for itself, but of 34.2 per cent in funds for the public expenditure of the States. This is half as much again as the rate of increase that this Government gives itself. I might add that this does not tell the whole story of the uparalleled generosity of this Government to the States and to local government, which languished for so long under the Liberals. Many specific purpose grants could be added to the list. 
I want to say more about the great improvements that Labor has made in various fields that are at risk should the Opposition come to government. Education is one of them. An amount of $ 1,908m is being provided for education in this Budget despite the restraint that we exercise. There has been a great increase in the field of public health. There have also been great increases in the field of social welfare to meet the ravages of poverty that exist in our community and that are inflicted chronically- not just for a time- on one and a quarter million people if we are to believe the survey on poverty which the Opposition, when in government, reluctantly set up at our behest. 
-Has the Minister for Transport seen reports that a floating airport is to be built in Sydney Harbour for short take-off and landing aircraft? Has the Government made a decision on this matter? 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Under a system of double taxation what complications would be involved for companies and individuals who earn income in various States? 
-Despite the economic restraints, education occupies a very high and important place in this Budget. This Australian Labor Party Government has made education a priority issue in the Australian community. It has been generated over a period of time. Let me say at once to the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  who is not in the chamber at the moment: It was not a Labor government in Canberra which introduced the first educational initiative, the first plan of education. It was the government of the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, that introduced the Universities Commission, which I would say made a very notable contribution towards the development of education in Australia by the infusion of Commonwealth funds into that sphere. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  cited quite a number of figures which, quite honestly, I have not been able to follow but I would suggest to him that the real test of what has happened in the last 3 years, irrespective of inflation, is just how important a contribution has been made by the provision of additional educational resources and the availability of those resources as spread amongst the mass of the students in our community. I think that any honourable member who travels around his or her electorate and looks about will see the notable improvements in terms of school buildings, libraries, greater availability of teachers, better trained teachers, the availability of ancillary staff, the likes of which we have not seen before. All of these things provide evidence of the enthusiasm of this Government and, if I may say so, of the enthusiasm of the Australian Minister for Education,  Mr Kim  Beazley.  His  contribution is well respected throughout this country and I think it is very deservedly so. 
The Government's overriding attitude to school financing emphasises the raising of standards rather than coping with increased numbers of students. At the school level it is not expected that there will be a significant increase in the number of students over the next 5 years. The Department's projections show an increase of about 1 20 000 in primary enrolments and a possible decrease of 30 000 in secondary enrolments. Population shifts are more likely to be significant in terms of requirements for new buildings. I can see this is true of my own area. Only a few years ago there was a great dearth of secondary schools in the area but because of the change in the type of community with the growth of units and villas and so on which were more often occupied by retired and professional people and not so much by people with young families there is now an over-supply of secondary schools. On the other hand, new areas are growing up and are urgently demanding new schools. This creates a considerable problem for planning for the future. 
The Budget not only puts an overall emphasis on education, but it provides specifically for certain areas of priority. These include such things as disadvantaged schools. This is a concept that was very much challenged when we first brought it before the Parliament. How does one identify disadvantaged schools? I think the Government has gone about the job in co-operation with the State departments and private educational bodies to arrive at a fairly reasonable level of competence in identifying what is meant by 'disadvantaged'. That matter is being attacked quite vigorously. 
The education of migrants and Aborigines is another area that claims priority. It is another neglected area of past decades of Liberal Country Party governments- both State and Commonwealth. There is also the matter of the education of our handicapped children. If it were within the competence of State governments to handle these matters, one wonders why for so long, these very deserving children were so neglected. It did not cost a tremendous amount of money to do something for them. But they were not regarded as economic units in our society. Therefore they apparently were neglected. We have recognised them out of humanity. They have a life to fulfil. They are educable and they are employable- much more so than we ever anticipated. But it is the humanitarian aspect that I would rather press than the other criteria. 
As I have said, there has been a massive injection of resources into the educational scene in Australia. In less than 3 years, a Labor Government here in Canberra has increased the resources available through or on the recommendation of the various authorities referred to in the estimates for the Department of Education. Details of this are to be found in table 1 of 
Budget Paper No. 8. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr 
Armitage)- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197510014_87_0.jpg"></graphic>

The paper is entitled 'Education 1975-76' and Table 1 is headed 'Australian Government Outlays on Education '. It is a comprehensive and detailed table comparing Australian Government expenditure on education at various levels since 1972-73 up to the estimated expenditure in 1975-76. The table shows that whereas total expenditure on education by the Australian Government in 1972-73 was $442.6m, it is budgeted to reach $ 1,908.2m this financial year. There is provision for it to be updated according to increased costs. The sum of $70m which has been referred to before is dedicated in part to school education. The document draws particular attention to the fact that in that short period expenditure in 3 areas, namely schools, pre-schools and child care which is one group; technical colleges which comprise a second group; and colleges of advanced education which comprise a third group, the increase has been more than five-fold. 
I know that money is not the be-aU and the end-all of the enterprise. The provision of finance is no guarantee of quality in education. I would be the first to admit that. Certainly the provision of more attractive, better equipped and functionally more efficiently planned schools has resulted. A greatly increased supply of ancillary staff has been a distinct advantage. Teachers have the opportunity of more pre-service training as well as in-service professional growth. There have been new initiatives and considerable amounts of money dedicated to research. I suggest that there is an economy by the Commonwealth doing this in co-operation with the States instead of allowing the State education authorities and private education authorities to overlap one another and wastefully to duplicate their efforts. 
Division 281 of the estimates for the Department of Education makes financial provision for the Curriculum Development Centre. We debated this matter only a short time ago. An amount of almost $ 1.4m is provided for this purpose. That amount is almost double last year's expenditure. So we are not just concerned with bricks and mortar and with the number of teachers standing before classes; we are concerned with the quality of education. That is why the development of this Curriculum Development Centre is so important. It works in cooperation with the States. 
There are a number of other research provisions in these estimates. Much has been said lately about deficiencies in literacy and number ability amongst many of our students. It is interesting to note that the National Committee on English Teaching which was established in October 1974 will come into full operation this financial year. Its charter is to investigate the ways in which written and spoken English may be more efficiently taught in schools. There is the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools. The Asian Studies Coordinating Committee has a provision of $450,000 in these estimates. In division 270 of the Estimates, $900,000 is made available for research and development in education. I have just touched upon some of the things that are in these estimates and which will improve not only the quantity but the quality of education. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Let me make a quick comment on a couple of the remarks of" the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  I remind him that a number of State Liberal governments at present are challenging the Regional Employment Development scheme as we know it, which aims to provide the kind of employment about which he has just spoken. He also made reference to socialist governments being identified with unemployment in various countries. I wonder what the . honourable member would say about the 9 per cent level of unemployment in the United States of America. Recently I saw a documentary which referred to ghost cities in the United States where business, employment and everything else was at a standstill. One could visit many cities in the United States and in other countries as well and see this sort of situation. 
I had a friendly conversation with the honourable member this morning about the beef industry. A little over 12 months or so ago, the price of beef in Australia was at an all-time high. Only a week or two ago it was at an all-time low. Why do our beef producers face this situation? The reason is that Australia is a trading country. We trade with Japan, the United States of America and other countries. For their own domestic reasons, these countries are not buying our goods. Therefore, the economic consequences spill over into countries such as Australia. Whilst it is true that no government would be foolish enough to claim that it is not guilty of mistakes, on the other hand it is absolutely true that we are a trading country which for its economic health is interdependent on the welfare of other nations. 
I wish to speak tonight about a department that has not been mentioned but which is in the complex of departments that we are discussing. I refer to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. This Department is concerned with an area in respect of which I am sure nobody could take away from this Labor Government the very great credit that is due to it for what it has done for ex-servicemen, exservicewomen, serving personnel and their dependants. This Budget provides for an increase in expenditure from $204m last financial year to $260m this financial year. No cutback in expenditure is involved. In quoting those figures, I am reminded by a footnote in the Budget documents that that sum does not include war and service pensions and allowances for which the expenditure is charged to a special apropriation. 
As I said, this Government- and it has been acknowledged by the Returned Services League and other service organisations- has an unsurpassed record of care for those who served in times of war and also for looking after their dependants. Let me quote a few selected pension payments that have been effected by this Government. I mention first the special rate or totally and permanently incapacitated pensionerthe TPI pensioner, as we know the category. Prior to this Labor Government taking office, such pensioners received $48 a week. This Budget proposes that that rate shall be increased to $74.10 a week. That is an increase of 54 per cent. Those pensioners have been promised that, under this Government, in the coming autumn session of the Parliament the TPI pension will be increased to $80. 10 a week, an increase of 69 per cent in a period of 3 years. Likewise, the intermediate rate pension has risen 5 1 per cent and with the further increase will have gone up 59 per cent in that same period. Meanwhile, the cost of living has risen by only 41 per cent in the time that this Government has been in office. I will acknowledge that that increase is too much. But the important aspect is that this Government has been able to keep up these payments to people in receipt of repatriation benefits. It has been able to maintain payments also to those in receipt of social welfare benefits at a rate ahead of the cost of living. 
Pensions for war widows have been increased by 94 per cent; 98 per cent of these pensioners receive additionally the domestic allowance which has risen from $8.50 a week to $12.50 a week. Let me deal now with service pensioners who are in the same category as age and invalid pensioners. The standard rate pension has risen by 94 per cent, taking into account the increases contained in this Budget. I compare that increase again with the cost of living increase as at the June quarter of this year of 4 1 per cent. The married rate pension has increased by 87 per cent. The general rate pension has not risen in this Budget, but it was increased in May last by $3 a week. The important fact with respect to the general rate pension is that this Government has unlocked the closed door that existed for a great many pensioners- the great proportion, about 86 per cent, of general rate pensioners- which was shut on those pensioners by our predecessors from 1964 to 1972. Any war pensioner receiving a part pension of 70 per cent down to 10 per cent of the general rate pension received no increase whatsoever in those 8 years. Yet I have heard people complaining that in this one year, when this Government is trying to meet the needs of the stringent economic circumstances besetting us, we have not been able to increase the rate of that pension. 
The pension increases that 1 have mentioned do not tell the whole story by any means. A most important improvement introduced by the Labor Government is the provision to allow 50 per cent of war pensions to be disregarded for means test purposes. This provision is applicable to service pensions. This means that many pensioners receiving these pensions not only have gained the substantial increases that I have described but also have qualified for a substantial part of one of these service pensions as a result of the easing of the means test. 
Let me quote one example, the single TPI pensioner. This is not the most dramatic example of what the Government has done. A single TPI pensioner, under 70 years of age- that is, the pensioner for whom the means test has not been abolished- with no other income or property, as a result of the Budget provisions, can receive a total of $104.33 a week, that is $5,425 a year. In other words, for a single totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner that amount of $5,425 a year is not taxable. Therefore the benefit is equivalent to an income of $6,632. 1 could go on to mention that a war widow under 70 years of age can receive up to $74. 1 5 a week as a result of the very important steps we took- we did it in 2 stages- to have disregarded 50 per cent of what a person receives as a war pension when applying for a service pension or, in the case of a war widow, an age pension or an invalid pension. That is a tremendous contribution. 
In the short time left to me let me merely mention some of the many other benefits for which many of my colleagues and I, along with exservice organisations, strove when we were in Opposition but which did not come to pass until a Labor government came to power. The repatriation means test pension is now payable in overseas countries, just as is the social security pension. If a person chooses to go overseas on retirement, he is still entitled to receive his pension. Free repatriation treatment is available for all veterans of the Boer War and World War I. There is no means test; they are all entitled to it. They receive also nursing home care, although admittedly they have to make some contribution for it. All cancer cases are treated irrespective of whether the cancer was caused by war service. That was a benefit for which we fought for many years, but which was never granted until a Labor government came to power. As I have said, since May 1975, 50 per cent of war pensions are disregarded as income for means test purposes in the case of an application for a service pension. We have abolished the means test on service pensions, as we have on age pensions, for all persons 70 years and over, with the promise that as from May of next year the age will be reduced to 69 years, and will progressively be reduced further. 
War Pension Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and repatriation boards are now required to give reasons for their decisions. It has been a bone of contention with ex-service bodies for years that those bodies were not required to give a reason for refusing an application. Now these important bodies are required to give reasons so that when a person challenges their decisions he or she knows on what grounds to meet the challenge. Eligibility for service pensions has been extended to veterans of the defence forces of British Commonwealth countries who have lived for 10 years in Australia.  De facto  wives are now recognised and provision has been made under this Government for ex-nuptial children. Provision has been made for free medical and hospital treatment for all Australian prisoners of war. No longer do prisoners of war have to prove their case before a tribunal; they automatically receive free treatment. Who would have thought that during 23 years in power a government would not provide that kind of assistance to prisoners of war. This Government has done very much in the cause of the ex-serviceman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Can the Attorney-General advise the House when the Legal Aid Bill will be brought on for debate in the House and the Senate? When can honourable members be confident that the Australian Legal Aid Office will be able to operate as an independent statutory body? 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the House of the effect, if any, on funds for education purposes if the Senate continues its obstruction of the passage of the Budget? Can he also say what the effect might be on the availability of places in tertiary education in 1976? 
I do not know how many times we have heard it said in this place that the Australian Labor Party, whether in government or in opposition, aims to centralise this, that or the other. In this instance it is education. That is a complete misreading of the Bill. As I hope I will indicate during the course of my speech, it does anything but that. It provides for very adequate avenues of consultation with all interested bodies in the matter of education- in this case tertiary education. 
It is said that we should have had a national inquiry into this matter before we proceeded to act or to give a direction about amalgamation. During the first several years of my time in this place I remember the Labor Party making appeals to the then Liberal-Country Party government to have a national inquiry into primary, secondary and pre-school education, but it was singularly unsuccessful in persuading that government to accept that opinion. It took the advent of the Whitlam Labor Government to bring about the establishment of an inquiry and subsequently the establishment of the Schools Commission, which I believe is accepted now even by the Opposition. 
Great emphasis has been placed upon the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made the announcement rather than the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  I seem to remember that it was the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Menzies,  who announced the establishment of the Australian Universities Commission and the preliminary inquiry into it. I think it was the same Prime Minister who also announced the establishment of the Martin Committee inquiry into other forms of tertiary education, which we have now come to recognise as colleges of advanced education. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has said that there has not been enough time set aside for discussion. I suppose we could go on discussing the matter interminably and there would still be people who would say whenever it was arbitrarily decided that we have had enough that there has not been sufficient time set aside for discussion. The panel, which was a very informed panel, did have before it quite a number of learned oral and written submissions. They have all been referred to in the report that the panel made to this House in August of this year. I do not think I will trespass further at this stage into the matters raised by honourable members opposite. They will come out in the course of my remarks. 
It is interesting to examine the growth that has taken place in tertiary education over the last 4 years, taking that period as an example. In 1971 there were 1 5 universities and in 1 975 there are 18 universities. In 1971 there were 43 colleges of advanced education. The number has grown quite significantly to a total of 78 in 1975. Admittedly many of the teachers colleges were included as colleges of advanced education in 1973. Between 1971 and 1975, taking another index of growth as an example, the number of internal undergraduate enrolments- when I refer to internal undergraduate enrolments I am excluding external students- in universities increased from 102 000, as a round figure, to almost 124 000. In the same period the number of internal undergraduate enrolments in colleges of advanced education increased from 68 000 to nearly 1 18 000. 1 again qualify those figures by noting that between 1971 and 1975 it was accepted that teachers colleges became autonomous bodies and were designated as colleges of advanced education. 
As has been said, the Bill aims to bring about a balanced development of universities and colleges of advanced education and the coordinated development of tertiary education to the greatest possible advantage of Australia. That is the idea behind this proposal. We have noted that already there exists consultation between the 2 commissions. If I remember correctly that was required by this Government. But we feel that in view of the growth- to which I have made some reference- that has occurred in these 2 fields, this matter of consultation is insufficient to bring about the balanced development that I have referred to already. There has been a vast growth in tertiary education since the mid- 1 960s, especially in colleges of advanced education. It has been boosted, as I have already remarked, by the recognition of teachers' colleges as substantially autonomous bodies and they are now designated as colleges of advanced education. There was a further impetus to the growth by the Commonwealth's acceptance of full financial responsibility in 1974. The present Government made that commitment. It was this Government that also brought about the abolition of fees. I wonder whether it might be salutary for many students to think over what they or their parents might be paying for their attendance at universities, colleges of advanced education or full time courses at technical colleges if they had to meet those costs at the present time rather than its being a matter shouldered by the Australian Government. Of course, when we say the Australian Government we mean the taxpayers generally. 
There has been quite substantial evidence of competition for resources and that is why we have come to this decision which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that there ought to be some rationalisation, particularly in the matter of development of capital facilities. By that I mean buildings, equipment and so on. Therefore there are certain provisions in the Bill that particularly take account of that rationalisation of capital development in tertiary education. This matter of co-ordination and balanced development is not new. In August 1 964 the report of the Committee on the Future of Tertiary Education in Australia, popularly known as the Martin report after its well known  chairman, Sir Leslie  Martin, advocated the need for structural co-ordination through a proposed Australian tertiary education commission It made a strong recommendation in that regard but the Menzies Government of the day rejected the proposal. While the Opposition now calls for coordination between these various bodies, back in 1964 the conservative government of the day rejected that proposal to bring about some measure of co-ordination. Yet I think it was the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  himself who gave support, as I understand it, to what is referred to in the panel's report as the model three set-up. This would have retained the present Australian Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education and superimposed on them a small co-ordinating tertiary commission. The panel rejected that and it gave its reasons for rejecting it just the same as it gave its reasons for adopting what is called model two. 
Whilst the Bill substitutes a single tertiary education commission in place of the 2 existing commissions it recognises the present policy of distinguishing between universities and colleges of advanced education. To listen to Opposition supporters one would think we are blurring this thing over, that we are aiming to wipe it off. We are not. We are recognising the existence of the 2 distinct types of tertiary education because we see that each has a particular purpose. Admittedly sometimes the distinction becomes blurred. The panel admits that the distinction is not always clear-cut and difficult issues of judgment and priorities will arise. The Tertiary Education Commission is to be assisted by 2 statutory councils. I think the Opposition has not paid enough attention to this provision in the Bill. One is the Universities Council which will act in much the same way as the Australian Universities Council does at the present time. There is another separate council proposed in the Bill which will advise the Tertiary Education Commission. This council is called the Advanced Education Council. 
The interrelation in the membership of the 3 bodies is meant to assist the broad objectives of co-ordination and balanced development. For instance, full time members of the Commission are chairmen of supporting councils. In addition, a small number of part-time members of the Commission are also to be part-time members of each of the supporting bodies- the 2 councils to which I have referred. It is of note that the full time member of the Commission responsible for capital programs is also a member of each of the councils. This is where we are particularly concernedthis competing demand for capital development that I mentioned before. This is eating up a considerable amount of taxpayers' money. I think the Government has to act responsibly in this matter and is trying to do so in this Bill. This is one provision in the Bill that particularly takes care of this rationalisation of capital development of tertiary education institutions. The interrelated machinery, to which I have just referred, is further reinforced by a unified secretariat to service the whole operation. It was suggested by some people that each council retain a separate secretariat, but we have accepted the panel's recommendation that there are not only economies to be made by having a unified secretariat but the existence of this unified secretariat also will facilitate the communication that is desirable between the universities and the colleges of advanced education or the people who are looking after their development. 
As the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said in his second reading speech, the composition of the 2 councils 'must be sufficiently different at all times to maintain fully their separate identity. The Councils will respectively represent the Commission in dealing with individual universities and colleges, which will thus find that they have much the same channels of communication as they do with the existing commissions'. So I do not think the vicechancellors and other interested bodies should be unduly worried by the prospect that universities will lose some of their status by the proposed amalgamation. I think universities will retain their status, in the same way as they have done over the 100 years or more of their existence, by the quality of their work, and I do not think that will in any way be interfered with by the coordinating commission that is to be set up. The  chairman  and members of the separate councils will still be carrying on their work in consultation with the State bodies, in consultation with other interested groups, State organisations and so on. They will be carrying on the work of ensuring that each type of institution will be heard and to ensure that they will be provided for to the best of the Commission's ability. 
The Bill provides that in the performance of its functions the Commission shall- the word 'shall ' is written into the Bill- consult, as appropriate, with not only universities and colleges of advanced education but also with the States. That is worthy of special note- it is referred to in the Opposition's amendment and it is written into the Bill. It is mandatory that the Commission shall consult, as appropriate, with not only universities and colleges of advanced education but also with the States and the Technical and Further Education Commission, and it may consult with such other persons, bodies or authorities as the Commission thinks necessary. This, of course, is a large task. The 2 councils will have a very important role to play in assisting the Commission to make this all-important consultation function really meaningful. Therefore in the appointment of members of the Commission and of the Councils regard will be paid to involvement in relevant State activities. The Minister, in making his recommendations as to who will be the commissioners and the part time members, obviously will take account of the fact that certain people are cognisant of developments in particular States. Therefore the views of the States will be taken into account without them having any direct representation. I note for once that the Opposition is not calling for direct representation of the States on the Commission or on either of its assisting Councils. 
Provision is made for the Minister, at the request of the Commission, to appoint committees, over and above the Councils and the Commission, to assist the Commission in the performances of its functions. I suggest that such committees could be very helpful in carrying out specialised consultation and administrative duties. For instance, they could be very relevant in respect of clause 7(1) (b) which requires the Commission to perform its functions with a view to promoting diversified opportunities for tertiary education throughout the community. These opportunities include those provided by way of: 
admission of students on the basis of demonstrable capacity as distinct from formal qualifications; and, 
arrangements for part time and off-campus study. 
The admission of students on the basis of demonstrable capacity will give opportunities to students who have left school without matriculating perhaps but who have acquired an ability, a maturity and a sense of scholarship that maybe many of those who do so well at matriculation studies do not possess. I had the pleasant experience of a few weeks in Britain last year where I had a rather short look at the operation of open universities. It was very obvious that not only were the open universities functioning very satisfactorily for their students but that they were also having a very marked beneficial effect on the formal universities as we have known them. These open universities provided a stimulus to other people who were not doing formal courses at universities. The second arrangement relating to part time and off-campus study again reinforces this notion or something of the spirit of open universities that operate in Great Britain. 
There are other features of the proposed Commission that I would like to briefly note. The first is its flexibility. In its report the panel stated on page 28 that it had sought 'to develop a mechanism which reflects the present policy and which will also be adaptable to future changes and circumstances'. I suggest to the honourable member for Sturt and other members of the Opposition that it might not be as practicable as they might think to make a clear, fixed definition of what is a college of advanced education on the one hand and what is a university on the other hand. The Martin Committee set out to try to do this in its report. A former Prime Minister of this country,  Sir Robert  Menzies, spoke quite definitely about what was the role of each but the 2 institutions have departed from the respective concepts of  Sir Robert  quite a bit since he spoke back in 1965. In these days there is not only a diversity within universities and between universities and colleges of advanced education; there is quite a diverse type of institution now operating as a college of advanced education. In neither case are these all of one kind and I suggest that the diversity is to be applauded. 
The second thing I would like to note is the freedom that is to be given to the Commission. As I have indicated already, certain duties are prescribed to the Commission, particularly in respect to consultation, its advisory role, its administrative function and its reporting function to this Parliament, where continuing discussion annually and even more frequently than that can take place. There is a very specific requirement in the legislation for the Commission to consult closely with the Technical and Further Education Commission but, as the panel indicated on page 32, 'beyond that, the Commission will be free to develop its own working arrangements and to vary these, including, for example, the channel of communication with individual colleges of advanced education, as circumstances dictate.' I heartily support the Bill and I suggest that the misgivings expressed in the Opposition's amendment are unfounded. 
