-I ask a question of the Minister for Transport. What precautions exist at Australian airports to prevent foreign nationals arriving armed with automatic weapons and carrying large amounts of foreign currency? Did 2 Iraqis arrive at Sydney Airport on 8 December so armed? Finally, what action will the Minister take to ensure that that does not happen again? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. In view of the changing nature of our defence posture and major new developments in naval weaponry, is there a strong case for rapidly ordering a new fleet of patrol boats with long-range detection systems for surveillance of our north-west and northern coastlines? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to support the motion moved by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and seconded by the member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  In doing so I take the opportunity of extending to you my congratulations and asking you to convey to  Mr Speaker,  a fellow Western Australian, my congratulations on his election to that high office of this House. 
The electorate which I am proud and honoured to represent in this place is a relatively new one. I wish to pay tribute to Dame Dorothy Margaret Tangney, a distinguished Western Australian, in whose honour the seat was named. The former  Senator Tangney  was the first woman member of that chamber and indeed the first woman member of the Federal Parliament. During her 25 years in the Senate Dame Dorothy made a very distinguished contribution both inside and outside the Parliament. Of special note throughout her period of office was the manner in which Dame Dorothy conducted herself. At all times she endeavoured to represent her constituents, to uphold the honour of her position and to render to the Crown and Parliament the proper respect which these institutions deserve. To all members of Parliament, old and new, Dame Dorothy Tangney remains an outstanding example of propriety. 
In the light of such an example,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  allow me to declare the support of the people of Tangney and the people of Western Australia for the Governor-General. I can properly do this because, in response to the Governor-General's actions last November, the people of Western Australia on 13 December returned 9 Liberal members to the House of Representatives out of a possible ten and 6 Liberal-National Country Party senators. This was an increase of four and one respectively compared with the 1974 election. Even the lone remaining Labor seat of Fremantle went extremely close to changing hands. From the people of Tangney and Western Australia comes the message that the Governor-General should not feel that he is alone. As a member State of the Federation which he helped to safeguard against the constitutional violations of the previous Government, Western Australia is grateful and would welcome and honour a vice-regal visit at any time in the future. 
I would like to speak on those sections of the Governor-General's Speech which are of special interest to the electors of Tangney, which are of special interest to the people of Western Australia and which to my mind will gain importance for all Australians in the time ahead. I refer, of course, to the defence of this countrytrie Government's desire to strengthen and improve Australia's defence and the Government's directive, as outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, that a number of studies of our western seaboard be undertaken, including the quicker completion of HMAS  Stirling  in Cockburn Sound, and the early establishment of joint Services training area at Yampi Sound. The western boundary of my electorate of Tangney runs along the shoreline of Cockburn Sound. 
Along this shore is sited the major heavy industrial area of Western Australia. This area in turn is linked economically with the Pilbara region of Western Australia, of which Yampi Sound is a geographic pan. Yet the Cockburn Sound industrial area and the Pilbara natural resource reserves are not purely Western Australian concerns. They are national concerns, as must be their defence. 
The Pilbara region's potential is virtually immeasurable. For example, the region began iron ore production only 1 1 years ago. By early 1975 production was running around 70 million tonnes a year. This figure is expected to reach 300 million tonnes by the end of the century. An adequate energy supply is available in big deposits of natural gas on the North West Shelf, a fact mentioned by the Governor-General. The region has available to it the basic resources of iron ore, salt and natural gas- an exceptionally generous spread of raw materials on which to base a vast industrial complex. On top of this, materials such as coal, bauxite and alumina are available in other parts of Australia to consolidate or broaden the base of industries that could come on stream in the Pilbara. The Pilbara 's future is a large part of the nation 's future. Therefore, any concern that West Australians have about their economic and military security in terms of the State's natural resources should be shared fully and equally by the rest of Australia. 
It is clear that the Pilbara 's future place in the Australia scene will not diminish. The proposals for the jumbo steel mill alone will see to that, whether it is eventually sited in the region or in the south of the State. In the light of these facts, we in Tangney are naturally concerned about the defence of Australia's western seaboard. We in the whole of Western Australia are concerned about the defence of Australia's western seaboard. I heartily approve of the GovernorGeneral's statements related to this necessity and I unreservedly endorse the initiatives the Government has taken in this area. For too long the defence of Australia's western seaboard has been ignored. I have no qualms about charging previous Liberal-National Country Party governments with this fault, though they were faced with a more stable Indian Ocean region and had more dependable allies than we have today. However, in the last 3 years we have witnessed not only the lack of any western seaboard defence but also the abandoning of even a pretence at providing defence for the rest of the country. 
Defence and foreign policy are closely linked. Traditionally, it is the aim of foreign policy to make the task of defending one's country easier. It is the aim of defence to support foreign policy by seeing to it that one never has to argue from a position of weakness, which will be exploited, but always from a position of strength, which will be respected. Contrary to these diplomatic truisms we have experienced over the last 3 years a situation where foreign policy and defence were subordinated to ideological considerations. In accordance with the demands of its socialist ideology, the previous Labor Government blandly averred that Australia faced no military threat for the next 15 years. The Labor Government possessed an idealistic, unrealistic, optimistic and, worst of all, simplistic world view. It believed that as more of the world turned socialistic it became a better place in which to live and cheerfully assumed that the growing anarchy and violence which manifest themselves all around us are merely the birth pangs of a new socialist order in which Australia would play its due part. 
The previous Government's foreign policy, based on this curiously sanguine view of current affairs, tended to ignore world conflict in the hope that if disregarded it would disappear. In terms of defence it adopted a policy which can be analagously likened to saying that if we he down unclothed we will not be raped. Yet in any position, reclined or otherwise, Australia cannot be considered unattractive and undesirable as my facts about Pilbara amply testify. We are the richest of prizes, a mere handful of people on a continent as large as the United States of America, crammed with mineral treasures and agricultural wealth in a hungry, poverty stricken world that is increasingly short of both mineral resources and food. We cannot ignore international events or mistakenly interpret them in terms of socialist ideology. 
There is a certain central international political fact of our time, a fact which the late Government refused to admit. That is the fact of Soviet expansionism. From this reality spring all the other factors which we must recognise and contend with the illusory nature of Soviet- American detente; the expanding Russian influence in South East Asia; the turmoil of the Middle East; the recent Soviet-backed Cuban military activity in Angola which threatens to move to other areas of Africa; and, of extreme relevance to the context of my speech, the increasing Soviet naval activity in the Indian Ocean. It must be realised that the Soviet naval vessels are the dominant naval presence in the Indian Ocean. Furthermore, it is the Indian Ocean which carries more vital commercial shipping than the Atlantic Ocean. Soviet ship days in the Indian Ocean totalled 10 490 in 1974 and 7920 in 1975. Compare this with United States Navy ship days totalling 2708 in 1974 and 2 198 in 1975. 
It is further worth remembering that the Soviet Navy has, among other Indian Ocean facilities, an equivalent of the proposed Cockburn facility at Aden. As I have said, it is my electorate and not that of Fremantle which covers the shore of Cockburn Sound and the area adjacent to the Garden Island naval support facility. Apart from whatever may be happening at Diego Garcia, it is this facility which is the only western naval installation of any size in the Indian Ocean. Already its importance has been dramatically demonstrated. The first 2 Australian warships to anchor there were called away in reponse to the crisis in Timor, the first shattering of any dream that Australia faced a long term period of tranquillity. It has been fortunate for us that others prevented East Timor becoming a bankrupt socialist coconut republic, probably dependent upon Russian aid that would be offered in return for naval facilities and other concessions. The implications for the security of Indonesia and Australia would, to say the least, have been disturbing if this scenario had unfolded. 
In the same vein, I trust I do not need to direct the attention of honourable members to what is happening today in Africa, only a few days steaming across the Indian Ocean. It does not need great perception to see the potential tragedy of East Timor fulfilled there a dozen times over, with totalitarian economic sinkholes ruled by Soviet catspaws threatening the stability and democratic institutions of their more stable and developing neighbours, both black and white. In Angola we are witnessing the conclusion of an incredible tragedy. An army of 13 000 Russian-led Cuban mercenaries have smashed all opposition, political and military, by a full scale war of tanks and missiles, as reported by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  in the  West Australian  last week. It would sound like cheap political science fiction if it did not happen to be true. I digress here for a moment to put upon record the absolute silence on this war of such bodies as the World Peace Council, the Association for International Cooperation and Disarmament, the Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament, the politically corrupted sections of the World Council of Churches and other so-called peace movements whose  raison d'etre  is to redefine peace as anything that suits Russian foreign policy. The names of these activists in each State are well known. Their silence has been deafening. 
I return to the more important points of defence and foreign policy. The instability of some countries on or close to the Indian Ocean is an observed fact. Its strategic importance to every major power and to ourselves would be obvious even if the world's major oil routes did not cross it. Before 1972 the Opposition made great play of the fact that the Liberal-Country Party Government of the day was neglecting defence in the Indian Ocean. The defence and estimates debates of this chamber show the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  stating that Australia must be not only a Pacific power but also an Indian Ocean power. The speeches of the honourable member for Fremantle show that his clear and obvious intention in them was a demand for the acquisition of nuclear submarines, though he phrased this carefully in an attempt to evade the vengeance of the World Peace Councillors in his own Party. I believe it was also probably due to the influence of the honourable member for Fremantle that a clause was written into the Labor Party's platform that the submarine was the capital ship of the future and that Australia should possess submarines 'of the most advanced type', to use his own words, which can mean only one thing. 
Successive Western Australian State governments also have recognised the need for more defence in the Indian Ocean and, of course, it was under a Liberal Federal Government that work on this vital base actually began. Yet Australia's defence can no longer continue to be treated as a political football. As the  chairman  of the military committee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation pointed out last December, an intelligence analysis of Warsaw Pact military developments has discerned only one trend in the Soviet Union and her satellites- a steady and continuous improvement in both the quality and quantity of weapons, equipment and training with growing emphasis on offensive capability. The analysis concluded by pointing out that Moscow was committed to becoming the world 's predominant power and intended to conduct negotiations from a position of strength. 
If we in the complacent West do not recognise this fact, at least the Chinese do and have been saying so for years. It is the Chinese navy that has been upgraded and trebled in size over the last 10 years. It is the Chinese who are paying very serious attention to defence. It is the Chinese who are extremely fearful of Soviet involvement as Russia continuously increases its naval capacity in the Indian Ocean. It is the Chinese who, in early 1975, approached Australia and suggested that this country should consider assisting in the containment of Soviet expansion in the Indian Ocean. In this context I fully support the Governor-General's statement that bilateral relations with China will be further developed. Western Australians applaud the defence initiatives announced by the Governor-General and being undertaken by the Government. Yet these initiatives must be only the beginning. For my part, while I remain in this House I will continue to urge that Australia undertakes more than ever before the defence of her own shores. This is not to undervalue the traditional relationships that has been salvaged by the present Government. However, in the final analysis we must be selfreliant and self-dependent for our defence. We must proceed to that position as quickly as possible. The Cockburn naval support facility, the Yampi Sound Joint Services area and the mooted patrol boat base at Broome are important first steps. We must build on them. 
There are some in this House who no doubt thought upon consideration of my medical background that I would speak on health. I do not underrate the importance of health and the need for physical and social security. However, for me it is the security of the nation upon which all other security rests. Australia is a country with a great future, given proper government. It is a wealthy country abounding in mineral and agricultural resources, a country whose people are amongst the finest in the world. It is a country which can look forward to the last decades of the twentieth century with confidence and, indeed, enthusiasm. It is a country which, in short, can look forward to a truly golden future under a Liberal-National Country Party Government which believes in those principles of freedom and the right to individual happiness and self determination which are fast vanishing from much of the world today. 
It is our task to see that Australia is a light in the darkness, a fortress of freedom, a refuge against the tyranny which could crush all men. Provided that we do not lose courage in ourselves and the things we have fought for for so long, and provided that we can continue to have faith in our democratic institutions, we shall realise the ideals in which the Liberal Party has always and will always put its trust. 
Let me conclude on the matter which I believe today, in the purely moral context, to be of the greatest importance of all. I refer to the recent actions of the Governor-General. The GovernorGeneral fearlessly upheld the law as he saw it. 
No one has been able to say that he breached the Constitution. His actions have been endorsed by the people of Australia, voting democratically, in the most overwhelming manner possible. However, I would be surprised if he, or any decent Australian, imagined the hysteria, the petty and contemptible childish spite, that would be directed against him. It is a spite and hysteria that does not even make political sense, since all it is doing is disgusting good people. It can be motivated by only one thing: A systematic attempt to destroy the Governor-General as a man. It will not succeed. He has proved that he is a man. We who took part in the recent election know that the people of Australia judged the Governor-General's action to be not only heroic but also crucial and right; and the proof of their judgment is before us all. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government made a firm and final decision concerning uranium exports, thus pre-empting the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry that is being conducted by  Mr Justice  Fox? 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware that an Opposition member of the State Parliament in Western Australia stated yesterday that he had information that nuclear weapons are to be stored on Garden Island in Cockburn Sound? Can the Minister provide the House with any information about that matter? Also, are there any developments arising from Vice President Rockefeller's visit to Australia in relation to American ships using Cockburn Sound? 
Australia has long been an active supporter of an international approach to the suppression of drug trafficking and abuse. This Bill, although it is short and has an esoteric title, is an important Bill in the sense that it will contribute to blocking the trafficking in these substances. I think it is worth while to define them, as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  did in his second reading speech. 'Psychotropic substance' is a term used to refer to substances that have the capacity to produce a state of dependence and central nervous system stimulation or depression resulting in hallucinations or disturbances in motor function, thinking, behaviour, perception or mood and in respect of which there is evidence of a likelihood of abuse so as to constitute a public health and social problem. The hallucinogens or psychotropic substances are drugs which interfere with a person's mind. 
This Bill seeks to block the transport of these substances through Australia to other countries. Our existing legislation does not allow for the control of drugs falling under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances which enter Australia in transit to another country. This Bill is designed to fill that gap. There is a compelling need to answer the increasing challenge of drug traffickers operating into Australia both as a market and as a transit point for trafficking to New Zealand. Drug intelligence to date indicates that Australia has emerged as a market worthy of inclusion in regular smuggling routes and as a transit point, especially to New Zealand; that there has been an alarming rise in the traffic of extremely dangerous drugs such as heroin, morphine and lysergic acid; that there has been a resurgence in the popularity of the hallucinogens, particularly lysergic acid, because the makers have corrected dosage /purity deficiencies thus eliminating unfavourable side effects; that there is evidence that organised crime is involved in trafficking; and that increased resources are being used by organised crime further to refine methods of the actual process of smuggling. For example, there are more sophisticated methods of concealment especially of large shipments in cargo and vehicles, and the presence of professional couriers carrying expertly forged documents. 
In recent years films have been made about drug trafficking into the United States of America from France, where the laboratories are situated in Marseilles. Opium from Turkey and the Golden Triangle is shipped to clandestine laboratories in France and from there the heroin passes to the prime market, the United States of America. As I indicated, there are sophisticated methods of concealment in cargo and even in vehicles. Couriers are passing drugs in increasing numbers and are using Australia as a transit point for carrying drugs to New Zealand. 
Two things emerge form the current legislation: There is increasing sophistication in the methods of concealment of the drugs, and it becomes increasingly difficult to isolate and identify the couriers even with the help of computer technology. It is germane to look at some of the figures of drug seizures in Australia from 1972 to 1975. In 1972 2746 grams of opium were seized. This increased in 1975 to 4816 grams, a 200 per cent increase. In 1972, 2019 grams of heroin were seized. This almost trebled to just under 6000 grams. There was also a significant change in the amount of lysergic acid seized. As indicated, with increasing purity of the lysergic acid and the fact that the people in the local drug scene and in New Zealand are becoming more sophisticated about the types of drugs they need on which to get high, more peopole are turning to hallucinogens for trips. It is no accident that people like  Dr Timothy  Leary, the guru of the hallucinogen users in the United States, have become popular in the underworld and the peripheral fringe of this country. 
I think it is important to understand that this Bill helps to cut down and isolate the people who are using Australia as a transit point. It is also important to note that Australia will be acting quickly to fulfil completely its obligations under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. As one of the originating nations of the convention, Australia must soon ratify its terms so as to maintain credibility as a nation vitally concerned with the eradication of drug abuse. At this stage about 30 countries have ratified the convention. It requires the ratification of 40 countries to become operative. Therefore it is desirable that Australia should ratify the convention before it becomes operative as we have long been an active supporter of an international approach to the suppression of drug trafficking and abuse which the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  described. It is important to note philosophically that drugs of this type interfere with and cause problems in the community amongst the people who are most susceptible to them. I refer to people who are perhaps inadequate; people who may need medical care; and young people in the capital cities of Australia who are so susceptible and vulnerable to these drugs which usually are introduced to them in gradations. The drugs they start on may not be the hard drugs they mainline on. 
As drug traffickers and users become more sophisticated they tend to use increasingly dangerous drugs which shorten alarmingly the time from initial use to degradation and destruction. I refer, of course, to lysergic acid and cocaine. It is important for the community at large to note that in the United States of America more people are now turning to cocaine, or 'mush' as it is known, for their kicks and that this is causing alarming problems in that country. It is important that this BUI be passed speedily. All members of this House, all members of the Parliament, should understand that it just closes one basket in the hope that we can prevent trafficking and the transit of these substances to New Zealand and other countries, and thus cut down on the mental degradation and anguish that use of these drugs causes. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, concerns Medibank. He has asked Premiers to consider changes in the Medibank hospital agreements. How can changes be made in firm legal agreements that still have several years to run? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Are nuclear weapons to be stored at HMAS  Stirling  on Garden Island in Cockburn Sound, Western Australia.  /ere circulated: 
Will ships carrying nuclear weapons be allowed to call at Garden Island. 
Will nuclear powered ships be allowed to call at Garden Island. 
What possibility exists of nuclear material or waste being accidentally released on Garden Island or in Cockburn Sound. 
What would be the likely effect of the accidental release of nuclear material or waste on Garden Island or in Cockburn Sound. 
Are there at present any restrictions on the use of any Australian port or naval base by nuclear powered ships of any nation. 
Are there at present any restrictions on the use of any Australian port or naval base by nuclear-armed ships of any nation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government recognise Rhodesian passports. 
Does his Department currently accept Rhodesian migrants if the applicants fall within the accepted occupational categories, or have reasonable compassionate grounds. 
In the light of the present unstable situation in Southern Africa and the likelihood that the days of the white minority regime in Rhodesia are numbered, will he consider accepting Rhodesian migrants now, irrespective of whether they meet the current standards. 
If so, when will this policy be announced. 
If not, will he further consider this proposal when, and if, total war breaks out in Rhodesia. 
I want to talk about the shipbuilding industry in Western Australia. Shipbuilding is very much in the news at the moment. In my electorate there is a flourishing $15m a year shipbuilding industry which, directly and indirectly. employs 4000 Western Australians and does not request an increase in the Government subsidy for its survival. The bulk of vessels built are steel prawning trawlers for the northern Australian waters. The shipbuilding industry in Western Australia, and indeed myself, are concerned about a proposal that Australian entry to the northern Australian fishing area should be restricted and closed to additional vessels. The Western Australian shipbuilding industry is dependent upon these fishing grounds and upon their continued expansion. This area has always been completely free for any Australian to enter and to fish in, in the best traditions of free enterprise. 
Lately there has been a great deal of pressure to restrict Australian entry into the Gulf of Carpentaria. On 19 July and 20 July 1976 a meeting called by the Northern Fishing Committee was held in Cairns. Representatives of the fishing industry were present. Unfortunately almost all the people selected to attend this meeting had a strong vested interest in closing the area and they certainly did not represent the views of a crosssection of the industry. Among other things decided at this meeting was that a recommendation should be made to the Standing Committee on Fisheries to limit entry to the area to vessels that commenced operation in the area before 15 May 1975 and to permit no more vessels to enter the area for 3 years. It was implied this was the recommendation of the large majority of the northern fisheries trawler operators. This is not true. At a meeting of the Northern Territory Branch of the Australian Fishing Industry Council, held in Darwin on 4 June 1976 and attended by the majority of trawler operators in the area, the following resolution was passed unanimously: 
That, if licence limitation is necessary, a forward date be set of, say, 24 months for review and decision. 
Members of the Northern Territory Branch of the Australian Fishing Industry Council represent by far the largest capital investment in the northern fishing zone. Therefore this unanimous recommendation should have a very strong influence on any decision. In short, it is clear that a very large section of the industry, if not the majority, is absolutely against licensed restriction for at least another 2 years. The major reason put forward for the closure of the northern Australia fishing area is that government and industry are concerned about the economic management of the fleets. The implication is that the Minister for Primary Industry should close the area because industry is not capable of managing its own affairs. 
It is my view that the only valid reason for closing certain areas of fishing grounds to private enterprise is that there is a danger of over-fishing. In a report prepared in 1970,  Mr Kirkegaard  Chief Inspector of the Northern Territory Department of Fisheries, stated: 
Only 20 per cent of the available grounds are being worked. 
At present there are fewer vessels working the area than there were in 1970. Therefore it must be assumed that less than 20 per cent of the grounds are being worked. In addition, the Fisheries Division of the CSIRO has stated categorically that there is absolutely no biological reason why the area should be closed to additional vessels. 
The only reason left for limiting entry to the area is the so-called overall economic management reason, which probably is based on the Copes Report of December 1975, which was prepared by Professor Copes from Canada for the previous Federal Government. This report recommends that steps be taken for what is an interesting study in reconstruction but hardly a foundation for a healthy free enterprise industry. In the report, at page 119, Professor Copes recommends as a first measure that in 1976 licences to fish for prawns in the Gulf of Carpentaria be restricted to vessels that can prove to have participated in that fishery during the high season of 1975. It should be noted that the meeting of the Northern Territory Branch of the Australian Fishing Industry Council held on 4 June 1976 carried a motion that the Copes Report was unacceptable as a basis for reference for Northern Territory management policy. The vote was eight to three. If the northern Australian fishing area were restricted to vessels operating in the area as at 15 May 1975, the effect on the shipbuilding industry in Western Australia would be disastrous. It would affect about $6 million worth of work on vessels now under construction in Western Australia and render them almost without value because there would be no alternative areas in which they could operate. It is obvious that such a situation would be financially crippling not only to the fishing companies but also to the Cockburn Sound based shipbuilding industry if the Gulf was closed with retrospectively, as recommended in the Copes report. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. What is the attitude of the Government towards a proposal by the shadow Attorney-General that a government should seek to continue in office without Supply? 
-In rising to contribute to the debate on the estimates for the Department of National Resources I wish to direct the attention of the Committee to the situation of the genuine small Australian petroleum and mineral explorer who is trying to operate in this country. As a Western Australian I am extremely conscious of the fact that the future economic prosperity of my State and, of course, of the whole nation is dependent on the large scale development of our natural resources. The present and correct pre-occupation is with efforts to get off the ground discovered large projects based as they are on known deposits of gas, iron ore, other minerals and uranium. If these attempts are successful- I believe they will be- we will surely experience another economic boom. However, I am of the opinion that we must always be forward looking. By this I mean there must be continuous oil and mineral exploration. There is an urgent need for us to remain self sufficient in oil and petrol if we are to maintain our standard of living. I strongly believe that best suited for such exploration are the small explorers, and further, that the health and vitality of the Australian exploration effort depends on the viability and strength of these small enterprises. 
-Small free enterprises. The Australian Petroleum and Minerals Explorers Association defines the small explorer as the prospector and prospecting syndicate through to the small exploration company which has nil to moderate earnings, which has the fundamental stated objective of exploration for any and all minerals, which is innovative and prepared to work under difficulties, which in the event of success would seek to work the deposit by itself if funding was not too onerous, or which would seek to move forward by sharing the discovery with a company containing capital resources, particular expertise or product requirements. 
The attributes of small explorers are multiple. They have a capacity for individualistic action and their past track record shows that they have made the initial discoveries of many major mining areas. Small explorers have a single-minded attitude to exploration and can provide essential competition for the larger exploring concerns, both of Australian and overseas origin. Because of their size they can provide diverse employment opportunities, job satisfaction and if encouraged with Government incentives, direct and/or indirect, chances of work for geologists, geophysicists, engineers, accountants, solicitors and skilled tradesmen, many of whom are currently unemployed. 
Small explorers assist decentralisation and help the development of an elite core of bushorientated Australians. Their successful existence ensures continuous development and use of the growing body of information about our mineral occurrences. They are Australian, making decisions in Australia, providing efficient ways of achieving Australian ownership and representing a broad cross section of Australian shareholders. Small explorers give to the small Australian operator and Australian investor who is willing to take the risk, access to our national resource wealth. Small explorers can successfully become small developers who can economically work small deposits. They can even turn into giants of the natural resources industry and I cite Western Mining Corporation as an excellent example. This list could be continued but I simply wish to bring home to honourable members the importance of the small explorer. 
I cannot stress enough the continuous need for this country to make oil, gas and mineral discoveries and the past successes of the small Australian explorers have dispelled any myth of these discoveries being due largely to foreign expertise. Eighty per cent of all discoveries to date have been because of the  little  men. We have the experts here and we need to recognise them and the importance of their role. It should never be forgotten that exploration is the life blood of the mining industry and the vehicle by which this country has developed. We need it even more to continue our development. 
The previous Labor Government pursued a taxation policy which almost totally wrecked the mining resource industry of this country. The revival of the industry has been and remains a major concern of the present Government and incentives and indirect assistance as announced in the Budget are designed to improve the situation. For example, petroleum mining expenditure will be deductible against income from any source. Mining and petroleum companies will be able to use accelerated depreciation on mining operations. Allowable spending on facilities for transporting minerals will now be deductible on a straight Une basis over 10 or 20 years and port facilities spending will now also count as a tax deduction. The $2 a barrel oil levy has been scrapped and the phasing out of the coal export duty has commenced. These measures are welcome and will assist the mining industry in its recovery. However, the policies of the Labor Administration also effectively killed aU incentive for exploration. 
The assistance to the mining sector does not benefit the small explorer who is not also a producer. This is an important point, for indeed there is a distinction between exploration and mining and I believe we should recognise that distinction in the assistance granted. In addition, as well as the situation persisting where there are little incentives to the explorer, unfair competition also exists. Overseas governments sponsor and assist exploration efforts in Australia and producers, whether overseas or in Australia, can offset exploration costs against income from production. The small explorer, however, using capital for exploration cannot possibly hope to continue raising such capital unless the investor gets some advantage. If and when the community refuses to contribute, no significant exploration will be done. As it is in Australia today the only such significant exploration is that being undertaken by producers who can offset the cost of current exploration against current income. 
The disturbing feature of this situation is that the amount and the type of exploration resulting is insufficient to ensure discoveries adequate to replace depleting reserves. A very necessary measure to improve this state of affairs and the position of the small explorer is to reintroduce tax deductions for financial contributions to exploration. World-wide exploration effort is very closely related with tax-effected community involvement. At present the staffing has been knocked out of the small explorers by the cancellation of taxation deductions and the realities of the exploration game. At the present time our small, local explorers cannot compete effectively with multinational concerns which receive tax incentives back home for exploration activities in Australia. Unless we move to reverse the situation, we as a nation will be the losers. It simply makes good sense to create a situation whereby our own small explorers are encouraged to go out and explore and discover. 
In the short time remaining to me I would like to move to the estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade and talk about the disruption of sheep exports from Western Australia. I am a resident of the city of Fremantle. On Monday I took my children to the Fremantle wharves to look at the  Atlas Pioneer  which is under a union embargo in Fremantle Harbour and on which sheep are beginning to die and rot. I hope that the trade unionists who are preventing the loading of live sheep at Fremantle Harbour for shipment to the Middle East will understand that what they are doing is not in the interests of Australia or in their own long-term interests. 
The Western Australian Government is now so concerned about the continual industrial sabotage to industrial projects in the Pilbara and to the export of live sheep from Fremantle Harbour that it is considering implementing right-to-work legislation on similar lines to the Taft-Hartley Act which is operating in many American States. The Trades and Labour Council continues to sabotage industrial projects in the Pilbara, at the Telfer gold mine project and the export of live sheep to the Middle East at a time when unemployment in Australia is at a critical level. The Trades and Labour Council in Western Australia led by Peter Cook appears to be obsessed with deliberately maintaining unemployment levels. 
Peter Cook. Action by the Trades and Labour Council and unions in the Telfer dispute, for example, amount to sheer industrial larrikinism. Right-to-work legislation is common in the United States and stems from the Taft-Hartley Act. As a result of this legislation left wing militancy is now a thing of the past in many parts of the United States. Organised industrial militancy is causing immense harm to Australia and its people, and the only way to defeat it is for more moderate and sensible people within the unions to assert themselves and gain control. 
Education is a high priority matter for the Federal Government. In the current financial year an amount equivalent to 9.1 per cent of estimated total Budget outlays is to be spent on education. In money terms that equals $2,204m, an increase of 1 5.3 per cent on last year's expenditure, and a massive increase from $300m in 1970-71. With this vast sum of money allocated for education, there arises the responsibility to ensure that it is spent effectively, purposefully and discriminately. Are we turning out millions of dunces? Is there an Austraiian education scandal? Has education become the stamping ground of romantics and  Utopian  socialists who give it pretentious and unrealistic objectives? The responsibility is to see that the money is well spent, that it is being used to achieve desirable and specific educational objectives, and to ensure that at all times the Austraiian taxpayer, the sole contributor of government funds, is getting value for his dollar. I wish to examine broadly our educational spending in terms of these responsibilities. Firstly, the importance of pre-school education cannot, in my view, be underestimated. It has very important social and educational functions at a critical time in the development of the individual. For many children pre-school experience is their first contact with their peer group outside of their own home and family environment. It often provides their first experience with adults other than their own parents and relatives. As well as this important social interaction, preschool education encourages the intellectual and creative development of the child. Often this is extended to cover an informal introduction into reading, writing and numeracy. Pre-schools play a vital role in preparing children for primary school. They are a valuable first step in ensuring the development of each child into an educated and social being. Existing facilities for pre-school education in many parts of Australia are inadequate. The Government recognises this fact, and I commend its present budgetary outlay as an important step to improve the situation. Improvement must be achieved in conjunction with the States. I look forward to the day when every child, irrespective of means, can attend a pre-school centre, a kindergarten. The $74.4m allocated, an increase of $9.4m over last year, and the creation of an office of child care in the Department of Social Security are moves I welcome. Secondly, no one needs to be persuaded that primary schooling is important. We live in a complex industrialised society which requires educated and trained persons to run it and to make it function properly. Even more fundamental than this just to live and successfully socially interact, we are required to possess a certain level of education and sophistication. Primary education must impart the three Rs. They are not obsolete, old-fashioned skills. It is becoming increasingly apparent that primary schools in their preoccupation with the more esoteric side of a child's development are failing in their job to teach reading, writing and numeracy. I refer to a comment in the  Bulletin  of 26 June 1976 by Malcolm Hill of the science faculty at the Melbourne University. When commenting on Peter Samuels' cover story in the  Bulletin  of 1 5 May of this year he said: 
Caring parents, thinking teachers and concerned employers have known Tor years that the so-called progressives have shortchanged our children in the classroom, but lacked the local statistics and documented evidence to refute the educational pundits and theorists, or to convince the deluded young practitioners who follow in their wake. As to the reasons, Samuel's 'speculative list' is as good as any I have read and better than most. Surely the first corrective step must be a speedy reversion to proven methods of teaching the basics of the three Rs, including phonetic spelling, script writing, reading aloud, multiplication tables, yes even chanting . . . the ultimate answer must lie in philosophy. 
Malcolm Hill of the science faculty at Melbourne University. We must arrest this disturbing trend and eliminate the situation where children entering high school are incompetent in these basic skills. I have no quarrel with the increased educational emphasis on helping the child to develop to fulfil his or her full potential as a young human being, but a modern member of society has little future if he cannot read, write and count. Have the decision makers in education- for example, the Schools Commission- decided that egalitarianism is the great objective of education, displacing the learning of skills and the dissemination of knowledge? Any budgetary outlay for education must ensure that all children, irrespective of means, can freely and readily avail themselves of this education. Most Australians see that the school 's role is to equip their children with the basic skills needed to get jobs and to live in society as it is. Informal teaching styles affect our children's progress towards these goals. There is no substitute for hard work in acquiring these skills to cope with the challenges ahead. In school teachers we need a middle road approach which takes the best of the old and the best of the new. It is not the proper role of schools to be struggling against society. I applaud the fact that the total expenditure by the Commonwealth Government on schools in 1976-77 is estimated at$763.1m, an increase of $88.1 m or 13 percent over last year. 
I now wish to direct my attention to postsecondary education. The combined Federal expenditure on universities, colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges and technical education amounts to $1,30 1.8m or over half the budgetary outlay on education. This is because the Federal Government has greater financial responsibility for those areas of education. However, I do wish to make the point that, given the finite amount of money that the Commonwealth has to spend on education, the more it spends on post-secondary education the less there is available to allocate to the States for pre-school, primary and secondary education. Are we wasting money on post-secondary education and, more particularly, tertiary education? Do Australian universities fail Australia? Knowledge without sense surely is double folly. 
Tertiary education is in danger of becoming a sacred cow issue in Australia and, for reasons of self preservation, is resisting all attempts at rationalisation and improvement. We need a new careerism amongst students. This new careerism would be a reaction to the economic realities of a much tightened job market. The Government is aware of this situation and the need to change it and has announced the establishment of a committee of inquiry into education and training. The terms of reference of this committee are clear. One of its major considerations is how post-secondary education as a whole relates to the needs of the individual and to the linkages between education and employment. Students need to take their studies seriously and work hard. The idea of a liberal arts education is losing its validity as new students see university less as an experience in itself and more as a means to an end. The emphasis of the Opposition, as articulated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr 
Beazley) is that education must be seen as paramount in its own right, with the secondary consideration being its relations to work and the market place. I, too, believe that education is a prime means for promoting individual self development. However, long hair and existential depression are out. There is emerging a changed sense of goals and possibilities in Australian education. 
With respect to primary and secondary education, our responsibility dictates that all students be provided with the essential skills needed for successful and happy functioning in our society. With respect to post-secondary education, our responsibility dictates that graduates are equipped to take their places in the work force. We need new student attitudes of reasonableness, compromise and an eagerness to work within the system. I do not believe postsecondary education to be a right. Neither do I believe it to be a privilege. In the main it is an economic necessity, for many of the positions in our complex, industrialised society require a post-secondary education. Therefore I maintain that any course of full-time post-secondary study should be open on the basis of merit to those who wish to study and train for such qualifications. Government and private enterprise scholarships should be available. I oppose the imposition of any fees and envisage these scholarships as providing a satisfactory living allowance. I do not consider it to be the Government's role and hence the role of society to finance the higher studies of an individual who has no regard for his employment prospects after graduation or who persists in undertaking a course of study for which there is no employment demand. For those who genuinely wish to pursue tertiary study for purposes of self-development extra to the workplace, I would be in favour of more opportunities and provisions for free part-time and external studies. Those who sincerely seek an education as an end in itself out of a desire to quest for knowledge could have no quarrel with such an arrangement. 
Much public money is presently being wasted on areas of post-secondary education, producing a breed of the educated unemployed. That is not value for money either to society at large or to the individuals. Many such persons are over qualified for numerous jobs; yet their competition for jobs forces the minimal level for education required to unrelated and unrealistic levels. I support the Budget estimates, especially with respect to pre-school, primary and second^ary education. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Health seen reports of claims by  Mr Hawke,  made yesterday in Melbourne, that Medibank will collapse under the Federal Government's health insurance system? Will the Minister assure the House that the revised Medibank scheme is a viable one? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact, as suggested in today's Melbourne  Age,  that Australia has taken sides in the Sino-Soviet dispute? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to allegations contained in today's  Bulletin  about leakage of classified information from Russell Hill? If so, can the Minister inform the House of the result of any assessment that he has made as to the accuracy of the report? 
My question which I ad  dress to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs concerns newspaper reports today that imported car prices will rise from 5 p.m. today as a result of a decision of the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is also reported that the prices will apply to stock imported before last Sunday's devaluation and that the Volvo group has been advised of the decision in a telex from the Tribunal. 
-The White Paper on Australian Defence is a significant and important document. It marks a turning point, or perhaps even a starting point, for modern realistic defence thinking and planning in this country. In the time available to me, I wish to comment on the nature of this thinking and planning, its importance to Western Australia and finally what is necessary to ensure its realistic effectiveness. 
Not since the days between Federation and the First World War has an Australian Government in time of peace, established a coherent, intelligent or intelligible defence policy. Between the 2 world wars there was simply an empty void which was perhaps understandable because memories of the appalling bloodbath of World War I were quickly followed by the depression. Since the Second World War we have had a socalled forward defence policy based on great mobility, until of course the events in South East Asia, and more particularly Vietnam, demonstrated the weakness of this stance. Irrespective of its morality, militarily the main problem with this confused thinking was that we did not possess the substance to maintain a worthwhile defence policy and even less the capability of mobility to sustain it. 
In the light of these facts, the White Paper is in a sense an apology for the past 30 years of neglect and lack of planning. However, building on this implicit apology the White Paper more importantly now provides the basis for a coordinated defence policy which is the first that Australia has had since the period of 1901-1914. It is a basis which is surely needed considering the almost complete run down of our national defence over the last few years. The policy is of course based on the concept of the continental defence of the Australian homeland. 
The pleasing aspect of the White Paper from a Western Australian point of view is that there is recognition that the continent is more than just the south-east corner. There has existed in Australia since the Second World War a Brisbane line mentality. If one doubts what I say one only has to look at the present deployment of the 3 Services in Australia. It is true that the southeast corner of the nation contains the majority of the Australian population, but can anyone seriously suggest that an external threat is likely to come from the direction of New Zealand? The White Paper recognises the existence of the north and the north-west. Perhaps in due course it will be further realised that the most vulnerable place in Australia is the Pilbara which has enough basic services to sustain an occupation army, quite beside its wealth in natural resources. It was very pleasing to see that there was a defence exercise in the Pilbara this year. Western Australia has 2.5 million square kilometres of territory and a population of just over one million, strung out along 12 500 kilometres of coastline. 
If any Member has- 
persistently and wilfully obstructed the business of the House- 
Or some Other things- he may be named by the  Speaker  . . . 
I further draw to your attention the outright challenge made by the honourable member for Chifley before he resumed his seat when he said: 
I will disrupt your speakers on your side of the House'. He has now called 2 quorums and he is encouraging his own members to leave the House so that he may do so.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask you to rule that he has wilfully and persistently obstructed the business of the House. 
-The Pilbara is an immensely wealthy area containing some of the richest deposits of iron ore and other vital minerals in the world. Yet my State, the size of India, is defended at the moment largely by some 300 men of the Special Air Services Regiment, one small patrol boat based at Fremantle and a squadron of Macchi jets at Pearce. Thankfully and rationally the White Paper contains indications of impending improvements to this ludicrous situation. 
Defence infrastructure and relevant civilian infrastructure are still limited in the north and the west. The White Paper recognises this and hopefully recognition of a deficiency is the first step to correcting it. The White Paper further recognises and ranks high in infrastructure development plans the need to develop airfields and patrol craft bases in the more remote areas of Australia, particularly in the north and northwest. Related to this, and especially welcome, are the plans to develop increased fuel storage at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Learmonth and to develop the existing interim patrol boat bases at Cairns and Darwin. The White Paper further indicates the establishment of patrol boat facilities on the north west coast to cover the gap between Darwin and Cockburn Sound. 
The Federal Government has already decided to accelerate works at Cockburn Sound, to enable HMAS  Stirling  to be commissioned in 1 978. Berthing is already available and the additional facilities planned include a wharf and depot. When these works are completed, the establishment will be able to provide for the deployment of 4 destroyers and 3 submarines and give support to visiting Royal Australian Navy task groups and allied ships. These and other improvements are welcomed in the west as a start in a real policy of continental defence. To have a real policy of continental defence our defence improvements must be relevant and, above all, we as a nation must be self-reliant. Western Australians feel isolated and there is real concern for defence there. 
A principal theme of the summer school at the University of Western Australia in January 1 976 concerned Australia's defence. It was an outstanding success due to the quality of the speakers attracted and the efforts of the director,  Mr John  Burman. It was ably chaired by the distinguished Australian military historian, Peter Firkins. The threat to Australia presented by the speakers varied between the ebb and flow of international politics, as suggested by  Sir Arthur  Tange, in contrast to the clear conviction by Brigadier F. P. Serong that there would be a major conflict between Russia and China within the next five to ten years and the side effects that would take place as a result.  Dr M.  Teichmann considered that the developing nations in the region were likely to assume communist type governments of various shades, but that did not pose a significant threat to Australia, and that it was a development that Australian governments should accept and learn to live with. He also considered that Austraiian governments had grossly exaggerated the threat of Indonesia to this country and expressed the view that they never had been a threat and were not likely to be in the foreseeable future. 

 Dr Teichmann also expressed the view that the Government of Papua New Guinea was likely to dissolve into a series of secessionist movements, and the same could well occur with Indonesia during the next 10 years or so. In dealing with the various shades of threats submitted by the speakers, the following courses of action were suggested. 

 Dr K. Foley was critical of the lack of direction given by Australian governments during the post- World War II period as to what the country's defence posture should be. He suggested that no clear and co-ordinated or rational direction had been given, either to the armed Services or to the defence bureaucracy, as to what its political or strategic policies were. Such lack of direction had very serious consequences in a wide variety of directions, not the least of which was the unco-ordinated manner in which the 3 armed Services still made their equipment procurements with little or no consideration of the overall political, strategic or tactical situation.  Dr Foley  also commented that the Defence Department, whilst probably relatively efficient, was simply not effective and, as a consequence, the defence planning as presently constituted was in disarray. 

 Dr Robert O'Neill was also highly critical of the procurement methods practised by the armed Services, largely for the same reasons submitted by  Dr Foley. Dr 0  'Neill outlined the various options available to Australia in the type of defence structure most suited to its requirements, ranging from a nuclear deterrent to the use of highly trained irregulars who could be used to harass enemy occupation forces. However, he recommended the development of highly trained conventional forces possessing a high technology capacity, backed by effective territorial forces, as something that would have to be strongly considered.  Dr O'Neill  also supported the view that Australia should develop its own highly sophisticated intelligence services, particularly attuned to the South East Asian area, so that it did not have to rely on information from other countries' services in this delicate area. 
Rear-Admiral A. Synnot outlined the present structure of the Australian armed forces which he regarded as more than a match for any nations in our immediate vicinity. He considered the basic policy of core-force experts, who could be used to expand effective forces in time of threat or general mobilisation, as being best suited to present requirements. 

 Dr M. Teichmann strongly attacked the lack of confidence generated by successive Australian governments that had espoused the need to rely on big and powerful friends, and the incapacity of the nation to defend itself, and the resultant breakdown in the will of the people being prepared to defend their country. In more simple terms, this type of political cliche has tended to destroy any sense of patriotism in the Australian people- a sense that historically has been very strong. 
In the light of the White Paper, I believe Australia is unlikely to repeat past mistakes or irrelevance. Our defence forces need to be specially geared for continental defence. Without going through all the improvements listed in the White Paper, I believe we are equipping ourselves in this vein. We simply need more of everything. However, it is self-reliance that holds the real key. With respect to our alliances, I do not wish to underplay their continuing importance even for a moment. The ANZUS Treaty will remain an essential element in Australia's defence considerations, but one could not have understated the true position more subtly than the White Paper. I quote: 
Both countries (the United States and New Zealand) are important to us; but it is prudent to remind ourselves that the United States has many diverse interests and obligations. 
It is indeed prudent to remind ourselves of that and I would suggest that we do so often. By all means we should continue to draw on our allies, Great Britain and the United States, as important sources of intelligence and assessment of military doctrine and defence science and technology. We must continue to rely on them, too, for advanced weaponry and equipment. Yet it is in this area that I feel we should be looking to supply more and more of our own hard heavy equipment. Not even during World War II, with total mobilisation of national resources, was Australia able to approach a position in which supply for its forces came solely from within. 
The White Paper recognises realistically that until a position is reached in which we can supply our defence needs from within self-reliance cannot be spoken of with confidence. Put simply, external aggression is not necessary if the object of conquest is being slowly but surely destroyed from within. It is unfashionable to talk of fifth columnists and the adverse effect that thenactivities are having on Australian security, both internal and external, yet this is perhaps the one deficiency of the White Paper- its failure to discuss those in our midst who for traitorous reasons or out of idealistic ideological allegiance to some new Utopian world order would gladly sell us down the drain for 2 bob. However, the call to increase our defence manufacturing, which I make, will bring them out of the woodwork. The victory of one over the other will decide whether Australia can be really self-reliant. 
I have spoken previously in this House on defence, welcoming government initiative to improve the security of our nation. I have spoken now and will speak again on defence in future with more confidence. It is a confidence based on the White Paper which I believe presents a sound basis for this country's defence planning. All that remains is for us to get on with the job 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: In view of the recent case of an applicant for an Australian visa making a false declaration that he had no criminal record, is the Attorney-General satisfied that the system of visa issues to overseas visitors is sufficiently stringent, especially with regard to people with criminal records? 
Caring for refugees from brutality and murder around the world is a major problem for all free nations. Australia is making a significant contribution towards helping to solve this problem. This is shown by the announcement during the week by the Government of details of the number of refugees who have come to Australia in recent times. These facts effectively counter the unfair criticism from some people whose proper concern for the welfare of refugees has led them to the wrong conclusion that Australia is not doing enough. The facts show that in the last 2 years the number of refugees or people of similar status arriving in Australia as a result of crises around the world includes about 6000 Lebanese, 2550 Vietnamese, 2580 Timorese, 6500 Cypriots, 1020 Chileans, 600 Laotians, 400 Cambodians and 600 Russian Jews, White Russians and other groups. The world situation is such that international crises involving oppression and the resulting refugee problem will continue. So it seems clear that there will be a continuing need for Australia to provide for further refugee groups in the future. But one cannot solve the refugee problem by simply bringing them to Australia and dumping them here. They provide a far more difficult immigration problem than normal migrants. 
Most migrants to Australia come here either because they have families already here and as a result can integrate into the Australian community relatively easily, or have job qualifications that ensure that they will be readily employed and whereby able to sustain themselves in their new home. But for refugees the situation is totally different. Many of them have escaped from their homelands with only the clothes they stand in. Most have no relatives or even associations of any kind in Australia. Most do not speak English. Many of them, particularly from South East Asia, do not process job skills that are needed in Australia. Many of them have lived a totally different life, particularly those from peasant farming communities and simply do not weld into the Australian environment the way the bulk of our normal migrants have been able to do so successfully. As a result, a major backup service is needed to cater for refugees when they arrive here. In the main this is being provided by the Federal Department of Social Security, backed up by valuable assistance from State and local governments and welfare organisations and service clubs. 
There has been a lot of comment from the Labor Opposition suggesting that the present Government's intake is not large enough. This is an extraordinary statement from a Party which, when in office, had a deplorable record on refugees. For example, the Whitlam Government's proud refugee intake from Vietnam was only 76 people. The rest, including workers at the Austraiian Embassy and others who had shown their loyalty to Australia, were left to be imprisoned or slaughtered. The present Government has not only significantly increased the refugee intake but also is improving the nation's capacity to cope with the special requirements of these refugees. This has been helped by the findings of last December's report by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the plight and circumstances of Vietnamese refugees. 
-Can the Treasurer say whether the Victorian Premier has sought reductions in sales tax in the context of the proposed prices and incomes pause? If the Victorian Premier has done so, will the Treasurer tell the House what the Commonwealth 's reaction has been? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is it true that a Russian student has recently applied for political asylum in Australia? Will he be granted it? If so, when? If not, why not? 
-Will the Minister for Defence tell the House when HMAS  Stirling,  the naval base on Garden Island in Western Australia, will be manned by defence personnel and in operation? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) Has the Australian Meat Board failed to perform its functions properly or satisfactorily. 
If so, in what way. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) Is he considering the reconstitution of the Australian Meat Board; if so, why. 
Are the present powers of the Australian Meat Board adequate to exercise that degree of regulation and control over the export meat trade consistent with the continued existence of free enterprise in the industry. 
Are the trading powers sufficient to enable the Board to carry out its limited trading functions. 
Would a change in the relative representation on the Board be an implied criticism of the present members; if not, why not. 
In what way is the present membership inadequate or improper. 
Should the representation on the Board of the producers of meat be reduced further, to the point where they will have lost their majority on the Board; if so, why should it be so reduced. 
Should representation on the Board of the meat exporters, who are the owners of the commodity at the point of export, be reduced further; if so, why. 
Should the representative/s of the meat exporters continue to be nominated by the Meat Exporters Council. 
Should a person be appointed to the Board on the ground only of his 'special qualifications'. 
10) If he is considering the reconstitution of the Board, what will be the qualifications for appointment to the Board after that reconstitution. 
Will processors and exporters of meat be adequately represented on the reconstituted Board; if so, by what means. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
What has been the total cost to the Australian taxpayer for the Commission which has conducted the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry? 
-I ask the Minister for Health a question about the drug tagamet. By way of explanation I point out that it has been shown dramatically to cure stomach ulcers without the need to resort to major surgery. Can the Minister say when a decision will be made regarding the addition of this effective but expensive drug to the pharmaceutical benefits schedule? 
-We have just witnessed a lack-lustre performance from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the shadow Minister for National Resources.  His  heart was not in his speech. When he was in Perth recently for the biennial conference of the Australian Labor Party he and the Leader of the Australian Labor Party were rolled by the socialist left. Tonight he was on his fourth policy in respect of uranium. My colleague the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  has dealt with the schizoid statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  earlier this evening. In fact the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition addressed people outside Parliament House this evening and indicated that the fight had just begun over the decision announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to mine and export uranium. In fact the Movement Against Uranium Mining had this to say about the Government's announcement: 'Today's announcement is irrelevant; it is a minor and temporary setback'. That organisation says that it was a minor and temporary setback despite the fact that two independent reports were commissioned and that this Government has almost followed them to the letter of the law in announcing the go-ahead for uranium mining. 
Australia's decision on uranium, announced today will help to secure the benefits of nuclear power for the nations of the world. The Fraser Government's decision will promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and ensure that it is safely used with minimal risk of damage to man and his environment. We have reached a point of no return along the course of nuclear evolution, bearing in mind the benefits of nuclear power and the risk that expanded use may cause increased proliferation. We need continuing and vigorous diplomatc initiatives overseas so that we can accelerate and influence world measures to prevent proliferation while uranium develops as a major world energy resource. The peoples of the world, poor and wealthy, want more and more power to increase their standards of living. The demand comes from them. One example of this is the rapid increase in the consumption of electrical energy all over the world. Over the next 25 years there will be no major alternative  to  fossil fuels- that is oil, gas and coal- except uranium. Uranium mining and nuclear power generation are demonstrably safe by any reasonable standards. The decisions of governments all over the world, whether liberal, conservative, socialist or communist, to increase investment rapidly in this energy system testifies to this. 
Uranium mining was carried out successfully and safely in Australia from 1954 to 1971. Now it will happen again. Uranium is being mined on an increasing scale in the United States of America, Canada, South Africa and other countries. 
-And the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Already 160 nuclear power stations are operating and after 2,000 power station years of operation there has not been a single death or injury to the public at large. Indeed, 180 new nuclear power stations are being built currently and another 160 are on order. By the year 2000 nearly 50 per cent of all electricity generated in the world will be from nuclear power stations. The Australian uranium industry is capable of satisfying 20 per cent of the world market by 1 985 and could be expected to earn, for the good of this nation, $3,000m a year at projected prices. By comparison the wool industry currently earns about $800m while our total mineral exports currently earn about $2,500m. Between now and 1985 the industry will spend some $ 1,800m on present day values, most of it in Australia, providing employment and growth, particularly in our sparsely populated north. The industry will provide employment for nearly 10,000 people in total by 1985 when their wages bill will make available some $2m to be fed back into the economy every week. This in turn will produce demands for goods and services which will improve the economy and increase employment further. 
There has been some debate on the safety of nuclear power stations. The world's first nuclear power station was opened by  Her  Majesty the Queen at Calder Hall in the United Kingdom in 1956. It has operated with steadily increasing output, with high load factor and over 95 per cent availability ever since. It has exceeded its expected 20-year life already and is expected to go on for at least as long again. One hundred and sixty power stations fueled by uranium are now operating in 24 countries. These have acquired a total of 2,000 years of nuclear power station operation without there being a single death or injury to the public at large. 
The risk of a nuclear reactor accident does cause some concern and although there has not been a single death to date it is reasoned that a death might occur. It might happen but other calamities in life also happen. It is about as scientific as saying that although no flood has ever threatened the city of Perth, one could destroy it tomorrow; therefore we should close the city down and abandon it. No one would accept such an argument, but one must examine the probabilities. The probability of Perth being so destroyed is so small that no citizen would leave on that account. Similarly although no one can say that there will never be a serious accident at some time in the future in a nuclear power station, the probability is very small in as much as a person has 20 times as big a chance of being killed by lightening. In fact nuclear power stations have proved so safe that certain insurance companies in the United States lowered their rates by 20 per cent from 1 January 1975 because on their account there had been no claims for injury or damage to the public or to property. 
Australians will welcome the Fraser Government's decision to develop and export uranium for peaceful purposes. Australians are twotoone in favour of developing and exporting uranium for peaceful purposes. They say that proposed mining projects should go ahead. In a survey conducted by the Morgan gallup poll, 1,950 people throughout Australia were asked: 
Do you think Australia should or should not develop and export uranium for peaceful purposes? 
Should the proposed uranium mining projects in Australia go ahead or be stopped? 
On the first question people answered: Develop and export, 59 per cent; do not develop and export, 28 per cent; undecided, 13 per cent. On the second question, 57 per cent favoured going ahead with the present proposed mining projects while 29 per cent opposed and 14 per cent were undecided. The same people were reminded that recently an Australian Labor Party Conference in Perth had resolved to ban all future uranium mining in Australia indefinitely and also that the Conference had resolved that if the ALP became the Government- perish the thought- it would break and cancel all uranium contracts made by the existing Government. When asked whether they agreed or disagreed with the ban on uranium mining, 60 per cent of the Australian people interviewed by the gallup poll said that they disagreed; 28 per cent said that they agreed; and 12 per cent were undecided. The other ALP Conference decision on uranium- one of its four policies- to repudiate future contracts was disagreed with by 58 percent and agreed with by 27 per cent, with the other 15 per cent being undecided. 
In weighing the overall health hazard presented by nuclear reactors it is appropriate to compare nuclear plants with coal burning power plants. Adverse health effects from coal power are greater than those from nuclear power. This comparison points up the relative safety of nuclear reactors. Fossil fuel power stations pollute the atmosphere far more than do nuclear reactors. Burning fossil fuel produces carbon dioxide which accumulates in the atmosphere and increases in concentration. There is growing concern among top scientists about the effect on climate of the accumulation of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The present concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is 330 parts per million. The concentration has been increasing at about one part per million per year during the 20 years that Professor Keeling of the Scripps Institute of Oceanography in the United States has been monitoring it. This increase corresponds to half the total carbon dioxide in the atmosphere caused by burning fossil fuel. Climatologists predict that a doubling of C02 concentration would cause an unprecedented warming of the climate of about two degrees Celsius average and about eight to ten degrees Celsius at the poles. If carbon dioxide is as big a problem as many suspect we simply may have to limit our use of coal and other fossil fuels or live with whatever consequences may arise with respect to changes in the climate. It would seem therefore that no energy system is complication or hazard free. 
After careful consideration, almost painstaking consideration, the Government has decided that uranium mining may proceed. I think that the timely export of Australian uranium will decrease the risk of further proliferation of nuclear weapons and will support and strengthen the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. As the Prime Minister said in his speech today, it will help make a safer world. With regard to environmental aspects, I and members of the Government committee on natural resources went to Arnhem Land and the Alligator River province last year and looked at the projects. We are very impressed with the statements today made by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs (  Mr Viner). 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
Since the contract for fifteen Navy work boats and seven Army work boats, for which tenders were sought in any of four materials, wood, steel, fibreglass or aluminium, has been won by North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pry Ltd for $4.7m. will he give full reasons why the tender was considered superior to a tender by a joint-venture from Western Australian Marine Services Association, at approximately $2.3m. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
In accepting the untried British Brooke-Marine 42m vessel with an unknown speed capability, rather than the proven 45m German Luerssen Went vessel with a known capability of at least 30 knots for the fourteen new naval patrol boats to be built in Australia, has the Government decided to adopt a simpler fishing protection vessel, rather than a comprehensive Naval patrol boat. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
Did the original tender documents for the 14 new Royal Australian Navy patrol boats to be built in Australia ask for a proven vessel. If so, is it considered that an untried, adapted 42m version of a 37.5m vessel is a proven vessel. 
If the tender documents did not ask for a proven vessel, what was the reason. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  West Australian  of S October 1977, in which Government spokesmen are reported as stating that a bid from a Western Aus.tralian firm for the contract for the 22 new work-boats to be built in Australia for the Army and Navy had been refused because the Navy considered that single screw boats could be dangerous in some situations, and that the Navy preferred aluminium hulls to fibreglass; if so, does the statement represent defence requirements. 
If the statement represents defence requirements why did the tender documents state that boats could be manufactured from aluminium, GRP (fibreglass), wood; steel, or any other approved material, and why was the tender not restricted to twin screw vessels. 
) Has the Navy let contracts for any vessels to be made of fibreglass in the past; if so, of what size. 
Does each of the vessels to be manufactured by North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd meet the tender requirements in that it is (a) a tried and proven vessel unaltered in any way or (b) a commercial boat containing minor modifications only to meet Naval requirements; if so, which category applies, and where may this vessel be inspected. 
