Firstly, I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your elevation to the position of  Speaker.  Our association goes back to my earliest days in the Labor Party. 1 say that no man in this Parliament deserves the honour of being  Mr Speaker  more than you. Of course, it is an honour shared equally by those whom you represent. 
During the last 40 years or so we have seen a number of administrations in the United States of America which have given to their programmes specific names. We had the New Deal and the Fair Deal of President Roosevelt, the New Frontier of President Kennedy and the Great Society of President Johnson. In Australia we have silently witnessed - almost politically stupified - the development of the imposition of the depersonalised society. This is a society where machines have more importance and are given greater significance than men and women who operate them, where material possessions are the very criteria of success, where job satisfaction and purpose of life have come to be regarded as almost irrelevant and certainly ignored by previous governments, and where peace of mind and harmonious living are matters which have been replaced by disharmony, discord and division. 
The development of advanced technology is essential for the welfare of Australia and for the development of our economy. Technology must be developed further in order to allow this nation to play its part in the development of those countries to our north - countries which are sometimes called underdeveloped or undeveloped; countries, of course, which in many cases have cultures reaching back for thousands of years and which also in many cases surpass our own in cultural achievement. But in order to encourage and to assist in the development of those economies we need technological development. I say - and I challenge any disagreement - that nowhere in the world in the last decade has technological development received such active co-operation as it has in Australia. Its introduction has not received more assistance anywhere in the world than it has in Australia from the organised trade union movement. 
In response and in return for that assistance, which I might add has not been forthcoming in all other parts of the world, governments of Australia have ignored their rights and obligations to protect employees in those industries which have been so affected. What is one of the primary effects of massive technological development? It is the growth of monolithic giant international corporations. These corporations are owned in foreign lands. They are completely impersonal. They have little or no regard for those who work for them. 
We hear talk of faceless men. When we look at the faceless, impersonal, giant corporation, we see in most cases a callous and cynical machine which has no concern at all for those who work for it, for those who develop it, for those who produce the wealth of its organisation and, certainly, no concern for the families of these people. During the past generation previous governments have created and have encouraged this depersonalised society in which the rights of individuals are cheap, in which individuals count for little and in which all that counts is the number of dollars and cents that were made in each year. They have developed a society in which the hopes, desires and needs of individuals have been swamped and submerged beneath the insidious tide of so-called progress but which is described more properly as the glorification of materialism and financial reward. 
In spite of the enormous growth in the Australian productive capacity, which under successive inefficient Liberal governments has rarely, if ever, been utilised fully, we have significant numbers of citizens who are in need. We have significant numbers of citizens who are caught in the poverty trap. One hundred thousand seems to have been the acceptable number of unemployed in this country. When there are 100,000 out of work, about 300,000 people are in need. The previous Government seemed to think that it was a magnificient achievement when the number of unemployed was reduced to about 130,000. To the previous Government the unemployed were units on a piece of paper. It had no concern for the homes or for the children who suffered and whose future perhaps was impaired because they failed to get an education. I remind the House that those who suffered the greatest unemployment in the past year or two were those in the low income bracket - those who could least afford to lose a day's pay, let alone be out of work for weeks or for a month. 
What do' we find in our society? With this mass of technology and with this enormous productive machine we find that today young people who marry and attempt to set up a home are set an almost impossible task. They face a trail of heartbreak and sorrow as they work long hours to save every cent in an attempt to establish a home, only to find that their savings are. outsped by inflation of the price of land and housing. Our senior citizens, many of whom have had family commitments and are on low wages, have not had the opportunity to save, but they have played their part in developing the national wealth. Their return for 30 or 40 years of hard, laborious and, in some cases, dangerous work is to spend their evening years in need, cold, lonely and hungry. They lead a life without dignity and without security. Because of bad planning and maladministration our youth find it difficult to get employment in occupations of their choice and to gain admission to universities or technical colleges. In many cases our youth is denied the right to be apprenticed in the skilled trades for which this country will cry out in just a few years time. Previous governments have not bothered to take out a statistic or to concern themselves about ascertaining Australia's employment needs and its needs for skilled tradesmen 2 years from now, let alone what those needs will be in 10 or 20 years time. 
So this Government starts from scratch. One good thing about that is that it will not have to undo any of the damage because nothing has been done. In some cases today, by the time young people who have been trained in jobs and who have spent their youth in study to acquire skills, have finished their study, those skills will have become completely redundant. That is a serious situation. It is a situation which typifies this lack of concern for people, the glorification of the machine and the adoration of the dollar as the most important thing. I say that a government which adopts these criteria and these standards to guide it along its path deserves the judgment of the Australian people that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government got in December last year. 
I put it to the House that technology belongs to all the people. It is not the inventor who gains financial reward, it is the person who employs the inventor who gains the financial reward, because of the society which has been developed. But technology does not and cannot be allowed to belong to those who have the funds to utilise the development for the sole purpose of enriching themselves and of satisfying their narrow, selfish and greedy desires. It belongs to the people. The people own technology. It is developed through community means. It is developed through the resources of the whole community. Therefore it is morally sound that those advances be used for the benefit of the whole community. Australian workers are regarded, and rightly so, as among the best educated and most highly skilled workers in the world. They are entitled to be treated with dignity and respect, whether they be employed by foreign corporations, Australian companies or government which is, of course, a very large and significant employer. They are entitled to be identified as persons and not to be identified merely by a number on the payroll. They are entitled to have a name. They are entitled to be considered at least the equal of if not much better than - that is my view - the capital equipment which they operate. But is that the position? 
Security of employment in Australia ranks among the lowest in the world. Under the Commonwealth arbitration laws, under the laws of the so-called master and so-called servant, an employer - the corporation - can dismiss an employee for any or no reason. The legal redress is practically nil. With the absence of the strike weapon the worker is powerless. This is not the position in other parts of the world. I hope that before the end of this Parliament it will not be the position here. There is no security of employment. With the introduction of technological change or at the first sign of an economic cold breeze labour is the most easily disposed of part of the company's productive process. Much depends on what Australia is trying to achieve in respect of its labour relations. Those who believe that the Australian work force is motivated solely by the financial return will fall into the same trap as previous Ministers of Labour have fallen into. They made a serious error when they acted on this assumption. The Australian worker is entitled to receive and demands that he receive recognition and job satisfaction. We on this side of the House are entitled to say that those who produce the wealth are entitled to share in it. I notice from what has been said in this Parliament and from what has been said in previous debates that honourable members opposite seem to have an antipathy towards trade unions. That is very unfortunate. 
Today I listened to the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  say that he regarded as a security risk the fact that civilian employees in defence establishments were being asked to join unions. I remind the honourable gentleman that since 1904 judges of Australian arbitration tribunals, both Commonwealth and State, have said that employees who enjoy benefits of union awards should be members of unions. It may be, of course - I gather that it is - that some honourable members opposite, including those who have held ministerial office in this area, regard it as wrong to encourage actively persons to become members of unions. But let them argue that not only with us but with a long line of authority from independent tribunals dating back 70 years. At some stage we may have the opportunity to debate this aspect more fully with those honourable gentlemen. Who knows, it may be possible to rescue them from then* ignorance. I remind the Parliament that it is not the trade unions which significantly limit production in this country and it is not the trade unions which determine that food shall not be grown or that only limited amounts of food shall be grown. During the last election campaign we heard a lot spoken and written about moral issues. I challenge honourable members opposite to justify in moral terms a situation where one-third of the world has so much productive capacity that goods are deliberately not produced. While one-third of the world is starving, another third destroys what it grows or refuses to grow more than a certain amount of food. In some countries, including this, farmers are paid not to produce food while our neighbours go to bed hungry every night if they have a bed. The morality of that is non-existent. 
What we wish to see is a society which is different from this depersonalised mess that has been developed over the last IS years or so. We want to see industry recognised for what it is. We want to see it recognised as an enterprise requiring the co-operation of capital, management and labour. We want labour to get its recognition as a partner in that enterprise, not merely serfs employed by those who own the financial resources. We want to see worker participation in the management of these enterprises because in many cases the employees hi an industry have a far greater stake and a far greater interest in its prosperity than do the investors. 
After all, it is not unknown for some investors to like buying companies at a loss - at least they did under the previous administration. This represented a tax gain and they could close the business down and write off accumulated losses against current profits. But what happens to the workers in that situation? What happens to those employees and their families? Many of them were required in my experience to shift home by 1,000 miles or stay and suffer the indignity and deprivation associated with unemployment. If this Parliament does not recognise the need to come to grips with what is one of the greatest social problems of our time, Australian progress will be, dampened. The need for Australian progress is unchallengeable. We need to ensure that we get equality of opportunity, that we look after the employees and also that we do not forget the girls at home - those who look after the family and suffer the difficulty today of low wages and high prices. A reduction in the real purchasing power of money is a problem suffered by the employee and his family - by the little girl who tries to buy the meat that the children need to give them sustenance. We, need to say that we will try to change this, not by some radical sweep of the pen because that is not possible but by a process of leadership and change which is regularised, planned and thought out. I believe a great deal can be done to improve the present position. The lack of leadership over the last IS years particularly has meant chaos and confusion. To say that Australia was in the marshland of chaos and confusion would not be putting it too highly. I look to the new Government, particularly the leadership of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  to ensure that we can develop leadership in this country on both a national and community level. I believe that this Government is well equipped to give that leadership. It is a government which is not bound to follow the dictates of those faceless corporations - the heartless people who sit in New York, London or Zurich or somewhere else and dictate what shall happen in Australia. I believe this Government will march towards new horizons filled with the hope of full equality of opportunity and a sense of national unity. It will ensure economic, political and cultural development which will make citizens the most important consideration in our society. 
I stand in this chamber today with a feeling of sadness and disappointment, which I am sure will be shared by the great majority of the members of the House, that prejudice runs so deep, that consideration of this matter by the Opposition has been so superficial and that its eagerness to gain some political advantage is so great that it would irresponsibly bring forward this matter for discussion. The effect of what Opposition supporters are seeking to do is to establish a degree of employer-employee anarchy and to create industrial disorder in this community. What they seek to do is to protect the fly-by-night elements in the construction industry, to protect the charlatans who operate in many parts of this industry and to encourage the organisation of so-called unofficial unions. 
What they should do if they are to act responsibly is to look at this matter objectively, not to look at it blinded by prejudice and hatred. They should seriously consider whether they are acting responsibly and whether they are acting in the interests of Australia when they seek to drag industrial relations into the party political arena. As I said before I was elected to this House, and 1 say it now, those who attempt to make industrial relations in this country a party political issue and seek to score party political points out of the resolution of conflicts between employers and employees are doing a grave disservice to Australia as a whole and will impede its development. The fact that the Opposition comes forward at this time with such an irresponsible approach to this matter, sponsored as it is by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  perhaps answers many of the questions of those outside this House who experienced such frustration with the previous Ministers for Labour and National Service. Honourable members opposite illustrated this morning an unfortunate and incredible ignorance of the realities of industrial practices and procedures. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is concerned solely with the letting of contracts on quantity, quality and price. Surely this is an attitude from the Middle Ages. Surely he would be at least remotely concerned with the observance of industrial laws and of the awards of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which he seeks to uphold only by speech and in a manner which could be interpreted only as double voiced. Surely he is concerned, at least superficially, with the safety of workers in what is a very dangerous industry. It has perhaps the highest injury rate of any industry in the Commonwealth. Surely he even at this stage must have some regard for the observance of minimum labour conditions which have been observed for a quarter of a century in other socially advanced countries. Does he seriously stand in this House and say that he upholds the right for the employment of child labour by sub-contractors who utilise their families, including their children, because of a gap in the arbitration laws whereby families are excluded from those laws? Do not say it cannot happen because it does happen. It happens in this industry; under age children are employed by their families. 
What is the Minister for  Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  attempting to do in his statement on employment and the letting of contracts? I think we ought to look at the statement. What he is seeking to do is to overcome a problem which is bedevilling the construction industry. It is dragging down conditions and does not have the support of large and responsible employers. Honourable members opposite should make some inquiries in that regard instead of getting all their information from their political library. The procedures laid down by the Minister in his statement seek to overcome dubious industrial practices, practices which are no more than an improper evasion of statutory responsibility and the responsibility in regard to awards and agreements made within the purview of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Minister's proposal is not inconsistent with international standards. It is completely consistent with practices in the United Kingdom. It is completely consistent with practices in the United States of America. It is of no use to say that this is an idea with a particular motive thought up by the Minister for Works; it is consistent with international practices. It is not compulsory unionism. Rather is it compulsion to uphold the industrial laws of this country - and who says that is wrong except the most reactionary anti-Labor, anti-trade union voices in this country? 
What the Minister has said is that in the letting of contracts a number of considerations are to be taken into account, firstly, that preference be given to unionists over non-unionists. That is a provision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is contained in section 47. The Opposition when in government looked at the Act, considered it and amended it a few years ago. Did it take that provision out of the Act? It certainly did not. The Minister also said that in letting contracts consideration should be given to the degree of day labour employed. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  did not understand what that meant. I remind him that what it means is simply this: Whether employees will be employed by that subcontractor or whether the sub-contractor himself will sub-contract to people who are really employees, a device being used to overcome that position. That device was recognised several years ago by the Parliament of New South Wales whereby such persons are deemed under the Industrial Arbitration Act of New South Wales to be employees so that they will have the protection of awards and the industrial laws. 
Another factor to be considered will be the policy to employ union labour as against nonunion labour. This is upholding the principle contained in section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which deals with the relationship of the contractor with the trade union movement. Apparently something is seen by the Opposition to be terribly wrong about that. But again it is a question of overcoming this evasion of the legal responsibility - the evasion of statutory obligation. It is a question of the observance of awards and agreements. This is really a difficult problem, as any responsible employer in the industry will tell honourable members opposite if they have the good sense to go arid ask him. I do not expect honourable members opposite to accept what I say, but it will be completely verified by responsible employers in the building construction industry. 
Another consideration in the letting of contracts is the quota of apprentices. Is there anything wrong with this? This is one of the greatest problems confronting the construction industry. The use of sub-contractors and the elimination of apprentices will mean that in 5 years time this industry will be on the point of collapse because there will be no skilled or trained tradesmen. What did the previous Government do about this? The answer is nothing. The Opposition wants to stop this Government by the use of cheap, miserable political propaganda, from attacking what is a grave national issue. It is in the interests of the people of this country to ensure that there are young men trained in this important industry and that there will be skilled labour in it. The previous Government allowed by its neglect a system to develop which would deprive the industry of trained people. 
As to the. rest of the propositions set out in the Minister's statement, clearly they are related to the observance of industrial statutes and the observance of awards and agreements made under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It will not be this Government's action which will undermine conciliation and arbitration in this country. It will be the stupidity and irresponsibility of the Opposition which will undermine public confidence in conciliation and arbitration proceedings, and for that the Opposition will take responsibility. I ask the House to reject the arguments of the Opposition as being irresponsible and the result of incredible and, I am afraid, invincible ignorance. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. How many breaches of awards were reported to the Department of Labour during the past  2  years? How many of these breaches were brought to finality? Does the Minister intend to streamline the present tedious and cumbersome internal departmental procedures which have the effect of discouraging prosecutions for award breaches, with a resultant failure to recover money rightfully belonging to employees? 
 It would be impossible to stay in this House for too long without strongly resenting some of the comments which have been made by members of the Opposition. In the last several sitting days constant attacks have been made on trade union organisations in Australia. Those attacks do little credit, either to the intelligence or to the standing of members of the Opposition. They show every element of suffering from invincible ignorance of the way in which industrial relations are conducted in Australia. This leads one to the inescapable conclusion that it is no wonder that industrial disputations were on the increase during the latter years of the previous Government's term in office. Honourable members opposite do not seem to understand the provisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, or its purposes, or what the trade union movement is about. 
They seem to have the opinion - they have expressed the view - that to ask a person to join a union, if that person is an employee of a defence establishment is, to quote one honourable gentleman, a security risk. That is a ludicrous proposition if ever one could be heard. It is the sort of proposition one would expect from extreme right wing reactionary organisations and extremist groups found elsewhere in the world. One would hopefully express the view that such groups are not in Australia. Constantly the proposition has been advanced in the course of recent debates that to give preference to a union member somehow or other involves the disturbance of his civil liberty, and involves also an improper compulsion on citizens to join a union. 
What honourable gentlemen who have suggested such things do not understand is that during the 23 years of government of the Liberal-Country Party coalition and almost since Federation and the existence of industrial legislation in Australia, one of the principal objects of that legislation, both State and Federal, has been the encouragement of the formation of representative bodies of employees and employers, and their registration pursuant to the provisions of those acts. 
I put it to this House that that is public policy. It has been the policy of this Parliament and it has been the policy of respective governments irrespective of their political complexion. It ill behoves the lunatic fringe to malign in this place under parliamentary privilege the Australian trade union movement which has done more than have any honourable gentlemen opposite or their predecessors put together to lift the standard of living of the Australian community to the level at which it is today. I put to this House that it is grossly unfair, to say the least, for honourable members opposite to criticise the trade union movement in this way. It would not be putting it too highly to say that it is contrary to the Australian concept of fair play to suggestthat those who choose freely to join a union and to undertake the task of obtaining industrial regulation through the processes of conciliation and arbitration, should carry the whole of the obligations and responsibility involved under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and receive no advantage and no benefit or preference over those who choose to be free riders. 
The objection is put forward in this place and elsewhere by those who know no better, or those who have a vested interest in misquotation and misrepresentation, that it is  a  breach of so-called principle that there should be any form of compulsion or any form of active encouragement for non-unionists to join a registered trade union organisation. But there is no objection - none at all - raised by the same people to the compulsion of those who do join a union to carry out the obligations imposed on them by legislation adopted by this Parliament. Similarly there is no objection to the compulsion of those who either join or do not join to accept decisions made by those registered organisations by way of agreement with employers in various industries. Nor is there any complaint about the compulsion in requiring all of the employees in an industry, whether they be members of a union or not, to accept the benefits and perhaps the disadvantages associated with awards that are made by arbitration tribunals. 
There is no consistency in this approach, and if honourable gentlemen opposite, or those few who have spoken in this quite irresponsible manner, are sincere in their approach let them be heard to say that they really favour industrial anarchy, because that is the course and the principle which lie behind their foolish and irresponsible advocacy of no encouragement and no preference to union members over those who choose not to join a union. What they seek to establish is the right of every person in this community to exercise licence to determine whether or not he will embrace the system of conciliation and arbitration that this community has decided shall be established. I am staggered and bewildered at times to hear some people, including honourable members of this Parliament, advocate strongly and vigorously the concept of adherence at ail costs and under all circumstances to the principles of conciliation and arbitration, and yet deny the very basic concept on which it is built. Without the existence of strong, vigorous and responsible trade unions in this country the concept of conciliation and arbitration cannot exist, industrial tribunals in Australia throughout this century and authorities on industrial regulation throughout the free world have recognised that there cannot be a system of responsible and legitimate industrial regulation unless there exist responsible, vigorous, strong and representative trade union organisations. 
I could quote to this House decisions of the New South Wales Industrial Commission in 1904 and 1926 and of the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission in the earliest days of its existence, in the early 1900s through the 1920s and the 1930s until this very month, which all say the same thing - that it is one of the chief responsibilities and primary objectives of conciliation and arbitration tribunals and of industrial legislation to encourage the growth of trade unionism. I suggest to honourable gentlemen opposite who lose no opportunity to attack this concept that it would do them well and it would educate them well to read some of these decisions and rid themselves of some of the ignorance under which they are at present labouring. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the establishment in Australia of an organisation known as the Palestine-Australia Solidarity Committee which functions as a support and arm of the so-called Palestinian Liberation Organisation? Is he aware that this organisation has as its principal methods of operation the use of violence, intimidation and the creation of racist anti-Jewish propaganda? Will the Prime Minister use his best efforts to ensure that this organisation is exposed and that the Australian people are made aware of its true aims and objectives? Will he ensure that those Australian citizens who embrace the Jewish faith or who support the State of Israel are protected from acts of violence or an assault of propaganda based on racial hatreds? Is the Prime Minister aware of the close historical links between Australia and Israel, particularly in relation to the United Nations recognition of Israel and the current close links between Histradut, the Israeli Trade Union Federation, and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and the mutually beneficial results which have occurred as a result of this? 
Whilst the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is in such a benevolent mood perhaps he would give consideration to a request I wish to make of him. He is on record as saying that it was desirable in the public interest that trade union officials and those who aspire to trade union office should be able to attend schools and courses of training in order to fit them for their task in industrial relations. The request 1 put to him and which I urge him to consider seriously is to extend the opportunity to attend such training to members of the Opposition who express an interest in industrial relations matters and particularly those who previously have held the office of Minister for Labour and who perhaps remotely and forlornly aspire to such office again in the future. After listening to the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  for 30 minutes espousing what he believes to be objections based on principle, I am amazed to find in this part of the twentieth century, from one who alleges to be expert in industrial relations, such ignorance and such prejudice as was expressed here today. The type of language used was staggering. One would not find it in the most reactionary halls of the most radical anti-union employer. He talked about industrial blackmail. Because the Government wants to give a benefit to union members the honourable member thinks this is blackmail. What a peculiar attitude. 
The honourable member commenced his speech with a classical contradiction. We have become used to hearing such things from right honourable and honourable gentlemen opposite. He said that this Government sought to dishonour an election promise. That is false. Nevertheless, he went on to say that the Government's method of dishonouring that promise was to interfere with the independence and integrity of the Public Service Board. He criticised the Government for advising the Public Service Board of Government policy. 
He has a very short memory. He thinks that we are all as ignorant of what has occurred in the past as he would like us to be. I well recall the days when there was a dispute in the Post Office. I recall very well indeed that there was open confrontation - Indeed those present who saw what transpired described it as a humiliating experience - when a former Prime Minister deliberately insulted the  Chairman  and members of the Public Service Board and directed them as though they were office boys on how they were to carry out their policy. This former Prime Minister certainly had no association with this Government or this Party. Not content with putting forward that ludicrous proposition the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition then compounded his inaccuracy with an absolute and complete contradiction. He said that the previous Government always ensured that all employees, members of unions or not, received all the benefits of the Public Service Arbitrators' determinations. That must mean that he and his Government were directing the Public Service Board, because the Government has no power to ensure that determinations and their benefits apply to everybody. 
In fact the Public Service Arbitration Act - I will come to this shortly in a little more detail - specifically precludes benefits flowing from an application by a union from applying to any but the members of that union unless by special act the Public Service Arbitrator provides for this by making a common rule, in which case certain steps must be followed, or alternatively the Public Service Board uses its powers under Regulation 74 (b) to extend the provision of those benefits to non-unionists. So the honourable member and his Government obviously were directing the Public Service Board in the same manner as they allege - and only allege - that this Government has been doing.  His  contribution to this debate commenced with complete inaccuracy and was compounded by absolute and complete contradiction. 
Yes, now he has gone. I do not blame him for going. I am sorry he has gone because I have some other things to say about his speech. 
I am sorry that he is embarrassed. I was hoping that he might stay and pick up a point or two. He also misquoted - again, I assume through ignorance because I knew the honourable gentleman for some time in his former capacity and I have not known him deliberately to misquote things before - the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
That is quite possible. But I am getting to know him in that way. Article 20 paragraph (2) of that document provides: 
No one may be compelled to belong to an association. 
That is one distinct paragraph. But article 23, paragraph 4 provides: 
Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests. 
Association' and 'trade unions' are used in completely different senses which anybody who understands how words are used in the international sphere would readily appreciate. 
Of course it does not say compelled to join'. I am not suggesting that it does. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that the Declaration provides that people may not be compelled to join a trade union. The Declaration states no such thing, as even a cursory examination of the document will disclose. In fact this proposition has been argued before such bodies as the High Court of Australia. 
It would be possible to show a number of complete inconsistencies and to show the depth and degree of prejudice of the honourable gentleman's speech. But I address myself to what this Government has done and to what occurred in the past. The Liberal PartyCountry Party coalition Government had a very sad and unfortunate record in respect of its attitudes in relation to annual leave as  a  matter of industrial reform. Throughout recent history it continuously argued that the time was not ripe for a reduction in working time or for the provision of additional paid leisure time. It failed to understand that men work in order to live; that they do not live in order to work. 
As most members of this Parliament are aware, there has been an enormous increase in the use of technology in Australia since Federation. Indeed, it is hard to imagine any productive or administrative process which has not been affected, altered or improved since that time. In almost every case or example imaginable the function or process has been mechanised in some way. Equally, in almost every case the function has been speeded up and more can be achieved in less time. There has been a mammoth increase in productivity in the Commonwealth Public Service during the period since Federation. This proposition is completely undeniable. 
The increased use of technology has been massive, particularly in the last 15 years. Increased national productivity has been achieved in many ways. Improvements in communications, better facilities for transport, the use of more advanced mechanical and electronic equipment and particularly the introduction of large scale computer installations have all had some effect. All of these factors have been important in achieving the objective of greater productivity. 
A further most important consideration is frequently overlooked. There has also been a massive increase in the skills of the employees of the Commonwealth. These men and women are much more highly trained than were their predecessors, those who were employed at the time of Federation. The current employees have had the benefit of a substantially higher basic school education. Those who have undertaken technical training have had to achieve a significantly higher standard in order to be equipped to operate and to manage the very sophisticated and expensive machinery and equipment now being used. Many more new processes require the possession of professional qualifications and higher skills. In most cases there is now a greater pressure on employees as they keep pace with the machinery they are supposed to operate. Some processes are being so arranged that one might wonder whether men are controlling the machines or whether the operators are really trying to keep up with the pace of the machines that they operate. 
There can be no doubt at all that there is far greater mental and physical and psychological strain on the modem employee as compared to those strains and pressures which existed for earlier generations performing the same or similar types of work. For many the introduction of modern technology has meant a very dramatic change in work styles and in the methods used in the performance of work. In other cases there has been a drastic alteration in the hours of work for no other purpose than to achieve a greater utilisation of the equipment concerned. Clerical staff in the Public Service who had been used to working only during daylight hours on ordinary week days suddenly found themselves being compelled to work shift work spread throughout almost the whole day - that is, 22 hours of a day, with the other 2 hours being used for maintenance purposes to keep the equipment in good order. The staff were further compelled to work on rosters which involved work on each of the 7 days of the week. They had to work on 5 days, but the 5 days included Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays. This was the price paid by employees for the introduction of the most radical and revolutionary method of performing work, the electronic computer. 
The introduction of modern technology is said to be for the advantage and benefit of the whole of the community, including the employees in the industry where the technology is introduced. In spite of all these changes which have occurred since Federation successive Liberal Party-Country Party governments have refused to increase the period of annual leave for public servants. But the Opposition now very feebly and hesitatingly claims in a backhanded sort of way to support the granting of extra leave to government employees. Honourable members opposite claim not to oppose this review of leave for public servants. They do not oppose it now because the present Government has a clear mandate to grant the extra leave. Members of the Opposition here and in the Senate have adopted niggling tactics in an attempt to frustrate this measure. They have tried, by rejecting the Public Service Arbitrator's determination, to prevent this reform. Without acknowledging in any way that the decision to grant extra leave to unionists was not justified, the Government is not prepared to deny the extra leave to its employees in spite of the attempts by the Opposition to prevent it from carrying out its promise made before the election. But the Opposition, being confronted with the inevitability of increased annual leave, now submerges its former opposition in a quite deceitful way. 
I want to refer to the record which my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  explained in some depth. An approach was made to former Prime Minister Menzies in October 1965, which was subsequent to an approach to the Public Service Board in March of 1964. Submissions were made to later Prime Ministers  -  to  Mr Holt  and so on. All of these approaches were rejected on the same basis that we could not afford to grant the extra annual leave and that it would cost too much. What is not recognised is that government employees in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland were entitled to 3 weeks annual leave in the early 1860s - over 100 years ago. 
The previous Government believed that Commonwealth employees should continue on 3 weeks annual leave in spite of the massive increase in technology, the massive increase in pressures and strains imposed upon those employees. Of course, honourable members opposite have always opposed an increase in paid leisure time. They adhere to the worn out, nonsensical and illogical theory that if you increase paid leisure time or decrease working hours you get an automatic increase in costs in direct ratio to the reduction in working hours. In other words, if you decrease working time by 10 per cent it automatically follows that there will be a 10 per cent increase in labour costs. The mathematical theory may be sound; it will commend itself to the simpletons who look after industrial relations for the Opposition in this Parliament. But it is not true. It is not true, because experience has shown clearly - and there is no substitute for actual experience in spite of the theories and the message in the textbook - that this does not follow at all. Indeed, neither in those industries which last year agreed to introduce the 35-hour week by way of agreement between employers and the trade unions nor in those establishments where the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission awarded it, has there been such an increase. What has been illustrated is that with the reduced hours the total production, the total productivity has at least been the same. There has at least been no decrease and in one or two instances there has been a minor increase. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had a lot of say about the Government's policy on preference to unionists. I addressed the House last night on this matter during the debate on the motion that the House adjourn. The policy that union membership was to be encouraged has been set out in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 1904. Last night I referred to the decisions of industrial tribunals since 1904 in New South Wales and to decisions in the Commonwealth sphere. Decisions also have been made in respect to Queensland. On 9th March last a full bench of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission consisting of 2 Presidential Members and a Commissioner made a decision on this very point. Of course, one could not expect the spokesmen on industrial relations in the Opposition to be so up to date as to know what has occurred in the last 3 weeks, because they exhibit from time to time that they have not caught up with what has been happening in the last 10 years. Perhaps I should read a passage from that decision so that it may be incorporated in the record and so that, with some good fortune, honourable gentlemen opposite may refer to it subsequently. The Commission said: 
We cannot as a matter of law introduce compulsory unionism, but we think that the Act, which is our charter, contemplates that we should encourage unionism. If the implementation by us of a statutory intention reduces the absolute freedom of management then we think even so we must apply that intention in such a way as we think proper. 
These gentlemen went on to prescribe that in cases in which unionists and non-unionists seek employment the unionists must get preference. This is contrary, of course, to the wishes of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who showed in his speech that he thought such a proposition was bordering almost on immorality. He condemned the Government for it. But it was the Commission which less than 3 weeks ago said that that was a proper proposition. The Commission said that as between employees seeking promotion from one level or grade to a higher level or grade the unionist must get preference over the non-unionist. Also the Commission said that in the case of retrenchment of employees preference would be given to unionists over non-unionists to remain in employment. Again, this proposition is quite contrary to the views and the wishes expressed by the.  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Further, the Commission said that in cases where two or more employees wished to take annual leave at the same time and where they all could not take their leave at once, the unionist is to receive preference. They are not the words of the. Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron);  that is the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Opposition preaches to the unions to abide by the decisions made by conciliation and arbitration. Followers of the Opposition will abide by those decisions when it suits them. I invite them to abide by this most recent decision. Members of the Opposition, with their anti-union prejudice, are not fooling anybody. The only people they might fool are themselves. They are commencing to appear to be acting as foolishly as they sound. 
During the whole of the debate at the second reading stage and on each clause of the Bill we have heard millions of words spoken by the Opposition as it has desperately clutched at straws before it has sunk beneath the political waves. This Government does not seek the establishment of an electoral system which allows for rural domination or for city domination. This Bill seeks to re-establish in Australia government by the people. Those people who would deny that concept are people who would deny the very basic tenet of democratic society. There is no case in Australia for the establishment of second class citizenship. There is no case in Australia for saying that some citizens shall have less say in the selection of government than others. We are not here to preside over the dilution of citizen rights in this community, and those people who say that as a matter of some almost divine right they should have more say than others are people who do not and cannot claim to have any sympathy with the democratic concept. All must have an equal say in selecting a government. 
Much has been said here about the plight of poor members in country areas; that we must have smaller electorates in country areas to suit the convenience of members of Parliament. This is a specious, spurious argument. Members of Parliament are elected by people who are entitled to vote to select the government to govern the country in the interests of the people. The people of this country do not select a few privileged citizens and say: 'We will send you to Parliament whereafter you shall live in comfort for the rest of your life'. 
That is not the purpose of a member of Parliament, at least as I see it and at least as it is seen on this side of the Parliament. If electorates are too big to allow the members concerned adequately to service them there is a case for adequate assistance and additional facilities being provided for those members. It is not and cannot be a case to say that those citizens who live in that electorate shall have more say than those who live in the overcrowded, densely populated city electorates. 
It is of no use somebody saying that the country carries the city. That is sheer nonsense. And of course it is being said here in several of the arguments put that there is inconsistency in the Government's approach for 2 reasons. Firstly, it is argued that because an equal number of senators represents each of the States we cannot expect that there should be equality of value in voting in the House of Representatives. Those who put forward that argument are indeed ignorant of history. They apparently do not realise that the idea of having equal representation in the Senate from each of the States comes from what is known as the great compromise of the Constitution convention in the United States of America in 1778. This very argument almost split the convention in half. The question was: Should there or should there not be one vote one value? The weight of the argument was ultimately that there must be equality in the value of voting, otherwise the whole concept of democratic society crashed. To protect the rights of the smaller States, the less populated regions, the compromise reached was that the other chamber, the Senate, should have 2 senators from each of the States. That is the basis of it and it is the basis of the position in Australia. And yet those on the other side of the chamber will argue: 'Do not quote the United States Supreme Court. Do not quote what happens in the United States.' They are either very ignorant of history or alternatively conveniently ignorant of the history of this system of government. They wish to ignore the precedence for the Federal system of government except when it suits them. 
The other very spurious argument put to show alleged Government inconsistency was an argument which ran something along these lines: At the turn of the century or early in this century two-thirds or some such figure of electorates were in rural areas. Of course there was also a quite different distribution of population at that time. When one looks  at  the very radical proposals that my very good friend, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  is accused of having introduced in clause 3 of this Bill and when one looks back as far as I have - perhaps it goes back further - it will be found that his proposals are almost identical with the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act of 1918. There are one or two minor variations but not much of substance. The only thing of substance is that the requirement to follow State electoral boundaries has been removed and the need to follow the trend of population - a provision which is currently in the Act - has been left in. 
The Minister is accused of radical change, but the census of 1916 revealed that 60 per cent of the people of this country lived outside capital cities and 40 per cent in the capital cities. In 1972, 54 per cent of the Australian population lived in capital cities, and the population of capital cities has gone from 2 million to 8 million in that period. In other words, the enormous increase in population has been predominantly in the city areas. It has been argued that there are difficulties associated with the representation of country areas. I have already addressed myself to this aspect but let me add one comment on the difficulty of getting around. I represent an electorate which has an area of 5.3 square miles, but that is all ground space. It is a far greater area if one measures floor space because my electorate goes up, not out. I guarantee that country members in their cars or charter aircraft can travel between their country towns and cities more quickly than a city member can move between the suburbs of Sydney in peak hour traffic. This, of course, is a factor which honourable members opposite overlook. They conveniently overlook the problems associated with high rise development and with overcrowding in city electorates. The difficulties associated with representation in the cities are equally as great as they are in most rural areas. 
However, this evening we are discussing a simple point: What is the most convenient way for members of this chamber to represent electors? We are discussing what is the most democratic and most equitable way of ensuring that we have government by the people and that every citizen has an equal say. We do not want to develop second class citizens or a citizen who has a diluted vote. I put it to the Committee that the real essence of this Bill is to ensure that the right of the people to select their government is preserved. What is on trial tonight is the basic concept of democracy. Never mind about propaganda slogans; let us look at the facts and the principles. The fact is that this Bill will bring the Act much closer to the concept of an equal value for each vote cast. Is that not the basis of democracy? I put it that those who deny it deny the very foundation on which our parliamentary system of government is based. This amendment should be agreed to because it will ensure that the will of the people prevails. 
Is the Minister for Services and Property aware of the proposals introduced in the New South Wales Parliament last night by the Liberal-Country Party Government in order to allow yet a further redistribution of State electoral boundaries? Is it a fact there has been a redistribution of electoral boundaries in New South Wales before each of the last 2 State general elections? Is it also a fact that this further proposed redistribution is to be undertaken in spite of a statutory provision that no such action may be taken until 1'975? What effect will a Liberal-Country Party gerrymander in New South Wales have on the democratic proposals of the Australian Government to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act in order to achieve electoral reform by giving, as far as practicable, every citizen a vote of equal value? 
My question had a very salient and pertinent point which has conveniently been overlooked by all honourable members from the Opposition who have spoken so far. It is interesting to note that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  took the point of order on the answer that was being given and not on the question that was asked. This is very significant. 1 asked the Minister what effect the proposals in New South Wales would have on legislation which has been introduced into this Parliament. It is those proposals and the possible effect of those proposals that were the subject of my simple question. Why there should be such fuss and bother over an honourable member asking a Minister a simple, straightforward question is beyond my comprehension. 
Why would I not be concerned? A proposal which seeks to increase the tolerance and the capacity for gerrymander from  15  per cent to  20  per cent, when this House has decided in its Act that it should be reduced from  20  per cent to  10  per cent, is a backward step which will have an immediate effect. It is no good honourable gentlemen opposite saying that State boundaries and subdivisions have no effect. I do not think they are foolish enough to believe that. For example, do they not know that between the  1969  and  1972  elections subdivisions were changed by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer with reference to nobody merely to suit the redistribution of electoral boundaries in New South Wales? Some subdivisions were eliminated from Commonwealth divisions and boundaries were changed. It is no good saying that the boundaries can be different, because they cannot. In my electorate  2  subdivisions were eliminated and one was changed to conform to State boundaries. 
The honourable gentleman obviously anticipated what I was going to say. The southern boundary of the electorate of Phillip is somebody's side fence. It is the boundary of the State electorate of Coogee, and it is on the southernmost point of the electorate of Phillip. Of course, it is interesting to note the attitude of the Opposition on this question. I hope that the Minister for Services and Property will tell the electoral commissioners when and if they are appointed of what has been said in this House on this subject today. The proposition has been advanced by those who lead the Liberal Party and the Country Party in this Parliament that it does not matter if there are different subdivisional boundaries- 
It is to be hoped that the commissioners, if and when in the future they are called upon to do their job, will take note of what has been said here today because what has been put is that they need pay no regard to Federal or State electoral boundaries and they need pay no regard to subdivisional boundaries. In practical terms that means that there can be different rolls and different subdivisions for State and Federal electorates. I personally agree with that approach. I am delighted to hear that the Opposition takes the same view. If that is the answer to my question then I am happy to resume my seat. But that is not the answer that I got from the Minister. I simply want to put it to you,  Mr Speaker,  that your ruling was completely correct. The members of the Opposition should have listened to the question I asked. If the honourable member for Bradfield will accept my assurance that I asked the Minister what effect a proposed gerrymander would have on proposals to be passed in this House, I believe he will withdraw his motion of dissent. The terms of my question make what he put in support of his motion completely irrelevant. 
Did the Minister for Defence see the program 'Federal File* in which it was alleged that Australia had told 
Thailand that in future no place would be available at the Queenscliff Staff College for the training of Thai officers? If the Minister saw the program, can he deny or confirm the statements made? 
Australia's future economic, political and cultural development will depend very heavily on its capacity to provide adequate technical education. The capacity to produce goods and services for the benefit of the Australian people will be determined by our capacity to train workers to perform the necessary tasks involved. Economic development will not occur on its own. The provision of capital equipment, no matter how sophisticated or highly developed it may be, will not achieve production without the co-operation of skilled technicians. Oyer recent years emphasis appears to have been placed on tertiary education to the exclusion of many areas of technical training. This emphasis has been given in a situation where the total funds spent on education and training has been inadequate and inappropriate for future needs. It is not my claim that any funds spent on other spheres of education should have been diverted into the area of technical education but it is an inescapable fact that too little attention has been given to the whole question of education. Regrettably, the neglect of education during one period cannot be corrected or the results of it rectified in a later one. Opportunities for education and training which are ignored are lost and never present themselves again. A year lost in training is never regained for the individual who lost it. 
Each year in Australia we have the spectacle of young men and women who leave school suffering the frustration of not being able to follow their chosen careers because of difficulties of being admitted to the system of trade training. The system of trade apprenticeship places very heavy responsibilities on employers and the relevant trade unions. It is most unfortunate that there is not more consultation and co-operation between a wider number of companies and trade unions on the subject of technical training. In some industries the present level of co-operation is excellent and leaves very little to be desired. In other industries there is an apparent reluctance by many employers to accept their share of the responsibility to assist in training skilled workers for their own future needs. Some companies are adopting a quite irresponsible attitude to this subject. Such organisations appear to have the view that the community has a responsibility to bear the cost of training workers in the skills required in thenown industries. The same companies, of course, strongly assert their right to act without regard to community interests in respect of the prices charged for goods and services produced by them. Companies which refuse to train apprentices in trades or refuse to have on the job training schemes in various occupational groupings are acting contrary to the national interest. 
The demand for technical education has been increasing at a rapid rate over a number of years. The report of the survey of needs for technical education in New South Wales between the years 1971 and 1975 which was published in August 1971 showed the growth in demand of technical education in that State. For example, in 1920 one person in every 200 was enrolled in a New South Wales technical college. By 1963 the rate was one person in every 53 and by 1970 it was one in every 30 who was enrolled in a technical college in that State. This rapid growth in demand has placed a strain upon the resources and available facilities of technical colleges. There is no reason to suggest that there will be any reduction in the demand for courses of technical training. Indeed, I believe the opposite will be the case. As technological development continues at a rapid rate the demands of industry for skilled technicians is certain to be maintained. 
The real difficulty in our modern industrial society is directly related to ethical values. As technology is developed to replace existing methods of performing work we find the displacement of the needs for old skills and the growth of demand for new and different skills or skills of a higher level. Different considerations are involved in the needs of training school leavers as compared to the training of adults whose skills have been displaced. The common mistake made over a number of years has been to expect a man in his middle age to respond to the same training methods  as those used in the schemes for training school leavers. The attitude of older workers is quite different and they need special consideration. 
The training of the Australian work force is a most important consideration. The rate of technological development is governed by the supply of skilled technicians available to utilise the new technology. Neglect and indifference to future needs have been regrettable features of the attitude of previous governments. True, the previous Government established a committee following a national seminar on the subject in May 1971 and I sincerely hope that this committee will continue its worthwhile work. But technical training has been traditionally a function undertaken by the States. It would be quite impractical to alter that responsibility. At the same time, it must be remembered that economic planning is a matter for this Parliament. It therefore is a Federal responsibility to ensure that the technical training facilities provided by each of the States are adequate for the present and future national needs. I emphasise particularly 'the future national needs'. 
The time has passed forever when Australia could afford the wasteful practice of having each State act in a disjointed way in the field of technical education. There is now an urgent need for co-ordinated planning of technical education facilities on a nationwide basis. We need to be able to forecast with accuracy the projected needs for particular skills in the future. It is fundamentally wrong in principle to spend public funds in training young men and women for jobs which will not be required in the foreseeable future. It is quite unethical to encourage young people to sacrifice their time, to undertake expense and to subject themselves to the rigours of disciplined study to acquire skills for which there will be no need in the foreseeable future. It is bordering on immorality to encourage people to spend their funds and energy in useless pursuits. The disappointment and frustration of those who have been adversely affected in this way is very considerable. It also means that persons who have spent time on study find that the economic rewards promised do not materialise. Such experiences can and should be avoided. We should not encourage people to train for jobs which will be redundant. We should avoid predictable redundancy. 
Another consideration for this Parliament is to ensure that technical training is available in those areas where it is hoped to achieve decentralised development. For example, there are many rural towns in Australia where there is no public institution where the skills of typing, shorthand and other administrative tasks and procedures are taught. The sole opportunity to learn these skills rests in the schools. But not all schools teach these skills. In my view, this represents a denial of rights to certain young Australians and it is these rights which have been ignored by previous governments which have had a preponderance of people who professed to represent the needs of persons from rural electorates. Decentralisation of industry on an effective basis is partly dependent of the availability of skilled labour in the areas concerned. Frequently, technical training is seen to be solely concerned with trades, apprenticeships and craft skills. We need to be concerned with training for all levels of skills. They are all important to the development of the economy. They are vitally important to the development of our citizens. 
The skills required in our community are many and varied. The levels of different skills also vary quite considerably. The number of unskilled jobs in our community is rapidly declining and such jobs will be non-existent for all practical purposes within the foreseeable future. If we seek to achieve increased national productivity we must be prepared to invest most funds in training the work force to higher levels of skill, as well as investing more funds in advanced technology. We must keep in mind that there are at least 4 times as many persons attending technical colleges as there are attending universities. Both are important and should be given due recognition. We should also encourage the community to recognise the status of technical skills. It should be recognised that the skills involved in modern technology are very great. This fact should also be recognised by the wage and salary fixing authorities. 
The time has arrived when our community must recognise that those who produce the goods and services are no less important than are the consumers. It may be necessary for the Government to consider more active encouragement to the secondary schools, both government and independent, to prepare children for technical careers as well as for tertiary studies. Not every child wishes to attend university or a college of advanced education. It is a significant gap in our present system of secondary schooling that thousands of children who wish to follow technical careers receive no preparation for those careers during their school years. They suffer a serious disadvantage. 
Previous Liberal-Country Party governments have been either indifferent to, or ignorant of, this rapidly growing need of our future citizens. In some schools technical subjects are not taught at all. In others the facilities for teaching technical subjects are so inadequate as to make the teaching of them extremely limited. This is but one example of the inequality of educational opportunity. In some industries the training of the work force is being positively neglected. The construction and building industry is an outstanding example. The growth of the practice of subcontracting, which is an unethical device to avoid legal obligations under industrial laws, is already having a disastrous effect on training. Sub-contracting to a level where, as a matter of law, workers become agents of principals rather than employees means that young men are not apprenticed to learn the various trades and therefore have no opportunity to acquire the skills involved. This allows large development companies, with near-sighted policies, to maximise their profits by reducing overhead costs in respect of such things as provision for sick leave, annual leave, long service leave, workers compensation, payroll tax and so on. But the community suffers because of the absence of training. Already many skills are in short supply as a direct result of this avaricious policy. 
This Government may have to examine alternative means of achieving sufficient skilled labour in this industry. When the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  recently introduced measures to overcome part of this problem by imposing conditions on government construction contracts, he was attacked viciously and quite unfairly by the Opposition. This attack was led in this House  by  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  who should have known better, because he was the Minister for Labour and National Service in the preceding Federal Government.  His  action illustrated the previous Government's indifference and lack of concern for this problem. The building industry may well become incapable of carrying out its functions in our economy if this lack of training is not corrected. 
The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is to be congratulated upon his efforts and concern for technical training. He needs, and is entitled to receive, the full support of the employers and trade unions in this country in respect of all his efforts. He is entitled to receive the co-operation of State governments in his endeavours to ensure that adequate training facilities are available to all citizens of whatever age or sex. In these efforts he will undoubtedly have the full support of the Parliament. Australia's future rate of economic development will be determined by the ability to develop properly planned training programs so that we, as a community, will have the collective technical skills to do those things which are necessary and desirable for the common good. Technical training is a matter of the greatest importance. It deserves to be given a high priority in terms of our national planning and development. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, when Minister for Labour and National Service, said in May 1971: 
Out  approach to training policy and the development of training programs do not measure up to what is being achieved in other advanced countries. 
This was an admission of inadequacy. 
It has been widely and freely admitted that training in some vocational areas has been very sadly neglected. Administrative, clerical and supervisory functions have been cited as prime examples of this neglect. We need far more co-operation to develop better training schemes. Australia should be moving beyond the concept of apprenticeship for the training of craftsmen. We should be providing facilities and active encouragement for craftsmen to continue training with the objective of their attaining technician, diploma or degree status. The apprenticeship system has been advantageous in many ways. It has provided the means of having an organised training schemes for the acquisition of technical skills. It also has had the advantage of providing legal obligations and responsibilities on employers as well as on employees undertaking the training. The apprenticeship system has become quite irrelevant, however, in respect of some areas of technical training and skills. 
Although the apprenticeship system has been the corner-stone of technical training in Australia so far as craftsmen are concerned, and it still is, it is by no means the sole method used for training employees in the use of technical skills. Technical training needs to be expanded and to be made more readily available to a greater number of people in Australia. Access to knowledge and the acquisition of higher skills are fundamental to a healthy, progressive and developing society. I congratulate the Minister for Education on taking this step. I remind honourable members of the words of Professor J. K. Galbraith who said: 
. the industrial system makes trained and educated manpower the decisive factor of production. 
In Australia we need to determine the skills that will be required during and beyond the next 10 years. Training to equip our work force with those skills should receive a very high priority in national planning. I am very pleased indeed to add my support to the recommendations made by the Minister. 
Perhaps it might be advisable to remind honourable members that it is not and has never been the purpose of conciliation and arbitration in Australia to weaken or destroy the bargaining power or capacity of employees. I want to point out to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that much of what he put is worthy of discussion but that he served little useful purpose by engaging in hyperbole. 
I am sure that we are going to have a discussion on this legislation, both in the second reading and Committee stages of the Bill, for the rest of today. I find myself in the position where it is necessary to discuss this Bill in somewhat superficial terms and to reserve the right to go into more specific aspects in the Committee stage. I suggest that the honourable member might do the same. Those who pioneered the concept of conciliation and arbitration in Australia saw it as a civilised and efficient way of resolving the inevitable conflict between employers and employees. There are some people who seem to believe that conflict between employers and employees is something to be avoided at all costs. Of course, to suggest that is to suggest a drive into the world of unreality. To resolve disputes without the economic losses and personal hardship which frequently are the result of long strikes is the noble motive of our system of conciliation and arbitration. But it is worth remembering that the primary objective of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is to promote goodwill in industry. That is provided in section 2 of the Act and has been there since the Act commenced. 
Other objects are designed to give effect to the primary objective of creating goodwill in industry. The whole emphasis of our industrial legislation and the whole emphasis of our conciliation and arbitration procedures should be directed towards the prevention of industrial disputes rather than the settlement of disputes which occur. That is the way in which it is desired in our Constitution - it is the purpose of the conciliation and arbitration power. It is significant that the word 'prevention' precedes the word 'settlement' in referring to industrial disputes and also that the word 'conciliation' precedes the word 'arbitration' in describing the method by which disputes shall be prevented and/ or settled. The amendments proposed in this Bill, particularly those proposed in respect to the consultation of employees and the encouragement of greater conciliation, will have far-reaching beneficial results. This Bill, read as a whole, will be seen as a major step towards the achievement of industrial peace. It will be seen as a step towards the elimination of the - need for strikes. lt is wrong to criticise a section or sections of this Bill in isolation without looking at it in its totality. It is unfair to predict any effects of the elimination of certain penal provisions without giving adequate consideration in calmness and tranquillity and giving due weight to the amendments designed to create far greater involvement of the individual employee in the establishment of his own conditions of employment. This Bill creates the means for a bold and courageous new experiment in industrial relations. Those who are harsh in their criticism of it show little faith and scant respect for the honour and collective integrity of Australian workers. My experience is that working men and women do not break arrangements made when they have been directly and fully involved in their making. We ought to remember that the process of conciliation and arbitration is a means to an end; it is not an end in itself. The historical purpose of arbitration in Australia is to prevent exploitation and to give the working man an effective voice without forcing him into a strike and without forcing him into unfair and inequitable working conditions. lt has been part of that scheme to achieve justice and equity in a relationship which tends to be one of the dominant factors of life. 
It is worth remembering that the people of Australia and of the world work in order to live; they do not live in order to work. Work forms a dominant part of their lives. It is impossible to live without working. The job that one has, the benefits that arise from that job, the rewards that flow from that employment determine the standard of living which all of us enjoy. 
The evolution and development of the great industrial society have brought changes to our system of industrial relations. We ought to recognise these things at least in part: Firstly, the worker is better educated than he was in years gone by. He is better informed of developments in our country and elsewhere in the world. The development of better news services and a more enlightened Press and the great technological advances made in television and telecommunications have assisted in the achievement of a far better informed population and a far better informed work force. This has its effect on industrial relations. Secondly, the relationship between employers and employees has become more impersonal. The development of the giant international corporation and the emergence, of a professional management class are 2 factors which have led to this impersonalisation of the industrial relationship in our community. The structure of the management of an enterprise makes the decision makers in Australian industry further and further removed, as each year goes by, from the work place and from the aspirations, feelings and fears of the Australian worker. One might well measure the concern of Australian enterprises for their employees by looking at the role and the status which are given to the officer or executive in charge of industrial relations. 
We should recognise as a fact of life that trade union militancy has increased and will continue to do so irrespective of the political colour or flavour of the Australian Government. There are. a number of reasons for this. Firstly, it can be shown that in recent years strikes have resulted in better conditions being achieved. It can be shown that strikes have resulted in conditions being achieved that would not have been achieved if the strike had not taken place. Secondly, the employee has far more resources, and his unions are bigger and stronger. Thirdly - this is a very important consideration - we have a growing number and a very much higher proportion of married women in employment. They are not totally dependent on their wage, or salary. Therefore, they are better equipped to withstand the rigours of strike action than they would be if they were totally dependent on their wage or salary. This also means that the family income is not totally dependent on one wage or salary. Therefore, the worker today is better equipped to cope with a strike than he, was 10 or 15 years ago. 
It is in this setting that quite significant changes are being made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as a first step. Why are these changes necessary? I put to the House and to honourable members that the existing laws are not as effective as they ought to be. For too long the capabilities of our tribunals have been ignored. It is ludicrous that after almost  70  years of Federal conciliation and arbitration we are still arguing in the High Court as to what is meant by an industrial matter. Is it not ludicrous that important considerations such as the reinstatement of an employee in his previous employment can be held to be beyond the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? 
In other words, the fact that a man is dismissed unfairly cannot be determined by a conciliation and arbitration procedure. The arbitral tribunals have no jurisdiction. Yet the Deputy Leader of the Opposition would brutally and viciously fine the employees who sought to strike to correct the serious injustice which has no other means of being resolved. Is he serious? The answer is that he is not serious. He is not serious because in instances where unions were fined he did not collect the fines. He refused to collect them. He declined to exercise his obligation - his right. 
The separation of conciliation from arbitration has not worked. The provisions of the previous Act did not work mainly because of a half-hearted approach by the previous Government and a milk and water type of separation. No one was really sure that the separation was anything more than a formality. No one was sure that the conciliator did not tell the arbitrator what had occurred at the conference. Of course, such a formality meant the inevitable demise of that scheme. We should consider just how effective were the so-called penal provisions. They provided that either a union or the individual employees could be fined. They were nothing more and nothing less than a source of irritation. The fines which were imposed under the penal provisions and under the leadership and jurisdiction of the previous Government were not collected in recent years. 
The prospect of action for damages or the possibility of charges of conspiracy in industrial relations should be removed because of its irritant effect. It is nonsense in this democratic society, this free economy, to suggest that workers who participate in a stoppage of work because little Mary Jones has been sacked out of turn are engaging in a conspiracy, and that a jam company for which she worked should be able to sue the workers individually and collectively through their union for damages. Is it suggested that 2 or  3  members of a furnishing trades union who are employed by a corporation such as General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd or the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd who go on strike because of a safety issue, should face the prospect of being sued for conspiracy by that poor little corporation? General-Motors' Holden's is the largest corporation in the world? Is that seriously suggested by the honourable member for Flinders? I doubt it. I give him credit for more sense and for more industrial integrity and honour. But why does the honourable member raise these issues in this manner to detract from this Bill? Why is it that members of the Opposition in this House insist on injecting into every debate petty party political considerations, particularly on the question of industrial relations? I hope that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  if he does speak on this occasion, will not inject these considerations. 1 hope that in his speech he will rise above that level and will look at the real issues involved. 
I find it impossible to argue that we should remove the civil right of any person to sue for damages if there were an attack on his property where wilful damage was done or he was the victim of a personal assault. This is in a vastly different category and the Bill recognises that. This Government does not, and I am certain will not, support physical violence, whether it be in the field of industrial relations or elsewhere. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  fully supports that concept. However, the Government is not prepared to leave on the statute book ludicrous propositions which have not found favour anywhere in the world, with the possible exception of totalitarian countries. We prefer to have legislation consistent with legislation in more enlightened countries rather than those countries which are under a totalitarian dictatorship. 
The removal of the penal provisions will place a far greater obligation on unions and employees to honour agreements which are made. Time alone will tell whether this will be so. After all, if agreements or awards were broken in the past the employer had a remedy whereby he could seek to have a fine imposed on those responsible for the breach. What has to be recognised here and elsewhere is that the old penal provisions, which even the previous Government would not tolerate, should not continue to be on the statute book. For industrial relations they were a disaster but for lawyers and members of the legal profession they were a bonanza. There was double indemnity in that employers consistently used Queen's Counsel when a junior clerk from a solicitor's office would have sufficed. Costs were mounted in order to get a double penalty. 
The Australian work force is a strong, virile and articulate group. It was amongst the earliest in the world to organise trade unions. We have one of the highest rates of trade union organisation to be found anywhere in the free world. Trade unions in Australia have always been relatively free. There have been some attempts to shackle them, but they have failed. The concept and spirit of trade unionism will continue. It will not be fettered by law* which are unenforceable - which Governments of all political flavours find impossible to enforce. There have been strikes from the earliest days of trade union organisation. Our fathers and our grandfathers before them withheld their labour from employers as they fought for recognition and the right to improve their conditions of employment. They fought for the right to provide sufficient food, clothing and shelter for their families. They refused to work in dangerous conditions or for less than a living wage. They refused to be treated like slaves, and because they so fought we have the conditions that we enjoy today. 
They were met with the same kind of argument as we hear today. I say to honourable gentlemen opposite that rhetoric and name calling were then and are now no answer to logic and certainly are unacceptable as a reply to the legitimate claims of employees. It is foolish and unfair to compare and relate the bargaining power of the corporation with the bargaining power of individual employees. There is no legitimate comparison possible in the sense of there being some kind of equality. How often have we heard the gibe that if a worker does not like the conditions he should go and work somewhere else? Perhaps there is nowhere else, or it may be that economic conditions are such that no other jobs are available or that the skills of a particular class of employee are unique to a special industry. It is in such industries that the col lective bargaining power of the employee is important; otherwise he is powerless as an individual. He certainly does not have all of the legitimate choices of a free man. 
When we speak of union power we speak about something which is irrelevant alongside the economic giants which have been developed in recent years. Let me say something about this equality argument - that the Opposition stands for equality, and that if it is proper to penalise the employer, so also should we penalise the employee. If the largest corporation in Australia refuses tomorrow morning to employ a man because he is a union member, that corporation faces the prospect of a fine of $400. If, in retaliation for that act, 10 men decide to withhold their labour from that giant corporation, they, through their union, face a fine of $1,000 a day until they offer for work. That is the legislation of honourable members opposite, that is their answer, that is the proposition which they put forward. Their Act provided that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd or the Ford Motor Co. Aust. Ltd or the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or the biggest corporations in Australia were treated as individuals and that if they were guilty of contempt they could be fined $400 a day. But a little union of 100 men could be fined $1,000 a day. Where is the equality of honourable members opposite? Where is their equity? 
Penalties of this kind eroded the confidence of working men in the system of conciliation and arbitration and in our Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Those who put that legislation on the statute book did a great disservice. In spite of the Opposition's attempts to frustrate it, this Government is determined to establish industrial peace and harmony in Australia and thereby lift the conditions of employment and the standard of living of all the Australian people. I commend the Bill. 
 I am sure that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  are not very serious in their opposition to the amendments because what the Bill does specifically is to prohibit any person exercising the power of conciliation, and subsequently arbitration, unless both parties to the dispute consent to his exercising the arbitral function. That is a most necessary provision. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  would know from his experience as Minister for Labour and National Service, it is necessary to legitimise a very successful and very convenient illegality which has been occurring in the Arbitration Commission over the last 2 years. I invite the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to confirm that what 1 am saying is true because he knows it to be true. 
Presidential Members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in other words, the judges of the arbitration system in Australia, have been conveniently practising an illegality in order to improve industrial relations in a number of industries. What they have been doing, with the consent of parties in a number of industries, is to act as conciliators in the first instance and, if the conciliation procedure fails in part or in total, they have then been acting as arbitrators. I instance a number of Presidential Members. The Acting  President  of the Commission,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Moore and  Deputy  Presidents,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Aird and  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Ludeke, in recent weeks, months and years have been practising this art of conciliating and subsequently arbitrating. The difficulty is that if a party to such a proceeding, having given his agreement in the first instance to proceeding in this way which, I inform the house, is very convenient and speeds up the procedures enormously, were then to say 'I do not agree with this procedure any further' the whole of the proceedings would become abortive. 
We then find a difficulty, due to the previous Government's legislation, where there are teams or panels of arbitrators and conciliators, in that the top man or the head of the team is eliminated from the process of arbitration. This is a grave fault in the legislation of the previous Government. It is full of real and practical difficulties. This is not some question of party political philosophy; it is a question of how the Commission can best work. Nobody came along to the Liberal Party, the Australian Labor Party or the Australian Country Party and asked: 'What is your philosophy on this?' This Bill is merely to give effect to what employers organisations and companies, trade union organisations, trade unions and members of the Arbitration Commission have found to be a very convenient and very useful method of performing the work of settling disputes. Do not condemn the Minister for Labour  (Mr  Clyde  Cameron) for doing what is eminently sensible. Do not condemn him for doing what every section of the industrial relations world has asked to be done. I am amazed that honourable gentlemen opposite do not know about it. 
Let me cite some examples. This practice has been carried out in the metal trades industry. The procedures have operated with substantial success in that industry as well as the stevedoring, container and power and fuel industries. The effect is that the parties confer. When they cannot reach agreement a conciliator, being a presidential member of the Commission or a commissioner, tries to assist by making suggestions of a compromise. When this has failed to resolve the  issue the  parties have said to members of the Commission: 'If you express a view about this particular issue we will accept it as our will. We will make an agreement in the terms of your opinion.' That has been done very successfully. 
I can give honourable members another example of where this procedure has worked very successfully. Recently in the paper industry a long strike could not be resolved. A presidential member of the Commission said to both parties: 'This matter will now be set down for arbitration. I have done my best to conciliate. I will now set it down for arbitration.' It was then possible for both parties to reach agreement, and they did. It was equally possible for either party to say to the presidential member: 'You have been conciliating and under the provisions of the Act you may not now act as arbitrator.' There was no provision for the parties to waive objection in the initial stages as there will be provision when this Bill is passed. I appeal to honourable gentlemen opposite seriously to consider this matter. It contains no deep philosophy. It is a practical solution which is required by people who work in the Commission, by both sides of the argument as it were, by both employers and employees. Not all employers and not all the trade unions want it, but a significant number want it. Why should they be denied a procedure which has been proved in practice to work so effectively? This practice has been approved by members of the Commission. I suppose the only way to describe it is to say that it has been approved illegally, but it has had great and beneficial results for the community as well as for the parties involved in industrial disputes. I sincerely put that view to honourable members and particularly to the honourable member for Moreton. 
I am not denying the past experience of the honourable member for Moreton in industrial matters, although it has not been my privilege  ever to have witnessed him in action in my 20 years experience in Commonwealth arbitration tribunals. He assures the House that he has had that experience and  I  accept that. 
I hope he will improve a little on his actions so far tonight. It seems that he has not read the Bill. I suspect that he was filling in time until the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition turned up. I cannot believe that a gentleman as responsible as the honourable member for Phillip - I mean the honourable member for Moreton - would raise such a petty point and would try, as the honourable member for Moreton did, to deny the benefits of the amended legislation to those people who practice in the industrial relations sphere and are seeking the amendments. 
I did not intend to speak on this matter but, in view of some of the remarks that have been made, may I speak very briefly. I did not believe that the onus would ever fall on me of standing in this Parliament to say a word in defence of the employers, particularly to defend them against a move by the Liberal-Country Party group in this Parliament which would deny them a defence under a prosecution pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The nonsense that has been put forward tonight in respect of proposed sub-sections (2a) and (2b) of section 5 of the Act on the basis that it is some reversal of the onus, is sheer and utter humbug. 
1 know it has been a long time since the right honourable gentleman was the Minister for Labour and National Service but surely he must still be vaguely familiar with the provisions of the Act. If the right honourable gentleman glances at this clause he will see that it provides that where there are grounds for the conviction of an employer, even in a situation where there is sufficient evidence to convict the employer of an offence, no conviction will be made against him if he can satisfy the court of certain facts. In other words, where it is proved that he has intimidated or threatened a unionist with disadvantage, or threatened to dismiss an employee for certain things which are an offence, and he can satisfy the court that those things occurred because of something that was unlawful under the civil or criminal law, no conviction will be made in spite of the facts being proved. That is what it says. 
The right honourable gentleman is trying to give the clause a meaning which it simply does not have. He has suggested that the provision be excluded from this Bill. Frankly, my whole history and all of my instincts are in favour of agreeing with him. It would not upset me one iota if the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  agreed with that proposition and deleted the clause from the Bill. I can tell the right honourable gentleman that the people who would be writing to him and criticising him for what had been achieved would not be trade unionists. They would be those who elected him and who are at the moment keeping him here. I refer to the large corporations. 
Some suggestion has been made that the total proposal to amend section 5 is in some way a move to give improper power to shop stewards to build up union monopoly power, as I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  put it. In its present form section 5 is practically meaningless. It is practically impossible to get a conviction. I invite honourable members opposite to indicate where the rs has been a conviction in recent years. I invite them to look at the cases which have been heard and the results of them. Even though facts have been clearly established, convictions have not been possible. I speak of facts, not fiction. These are facts. There is no case, nor is there any need for a case, under section 5 where there is strong union organisation. Where there is union power, to use the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, this provision is not required and it certainly is never used. 
If an employer in a strongly organised shop attempts to intimidate or victimise a union delegate another action occurs. Victimisation simply does not occur where there is adequate union organisation, where there are properly regulated industrial relations. Most responsible employers I know are very sensitive to the charge that they may be victimising a union delegate. They are very sensitive indeed on that point and are most anxious not to put themselves in a position where that charge may be levelled against them. The provision is necessary to protect a union delegate in a poorly organised plant or establishment conducted by a fly by night or reactionary employer. There are still some such employers who would seek to prevent union organisation in their establishments. To speak of the whole problem of shop stewards and the finish of negotiation in the trade union movement is to draw a read herring across the trail. 
I am the first to admit that there have been problems and I have no doubt that there will be problems in the future when shop stewards in some industries take matters into their own hands. There will be defiance of union leadership and objectives. There has been in the past and undoubtedly will be in the future, but that has absolutely nothing to do with section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The way to fix that problem has already been outlined by the Minister. At least it will be a concrete and positive step along the road. The Minister has reported to the Parliament his proposal to establish schools and training procedures for union delegates, shop stewards and the like. 1 deny that this proposal would in any way add to industrial disputation. 
In my opinion, a great deal of what has been said about this provision has been ill informed. To suggest that this provision will allow shop stewards to subvert their authority and to take more than their authority is to deny the words of the Bill. The Bill refers to an action being an 'act or thing done within the limits of authority expressly or impliedly conferred on him by the organisation.' In other words, an officer, delegate, shop steward or other official may not be victimised if he is taking an action which is within his authority so to take. I believe that this is a direct contradiction of the proposition put forward by honourable members opposite. 
I repeat that where there is a strong organisation - where there is union power, as the Opposition puts it - whether monopoly or otherwise, there is no need for statutory protection of shop stewards, because they have it in a much more effective way. I commend the provision and the Bill to the House. I believe that the opposition to the clause has been ill informed. It has been emotional rather than logical. I suggest that members of the Opposition should have a further think about the provision to which they strongly object. It is in fact a protection to employers and certainly it is not something to which employers will object. 

 Mr McMAHON (Lowe) - I wish to make  a  personal explanation. 

 Mr RIORDAN (Phillip)- I wish to make a personal explanation as I claim to have been misrepresented. I did not at any time during my address refer to the right honourable member for Lowe as having said that the Committee would divide on any sub-clause, or indeed, on the whole of the proposed amendment to section 5. The right honourable gentleman is confusing what I said with what was said by the honourable member for Burke. I forgive him for misrepresenting me. He was talking about somebody else, not about me. I referred to what the right honourable member said about the proposed new sub-section, not about whether the Committee would divide. That is a matter of complete indifference to me and would not be worth taking up the time of the House to comment on. 
Question put: 
Some opposition has been expressed to the provisions of clause 17 of this Bill. I believe that the Committee should carefully consider what is contained in this clause. There has been some criticism that the Government in its proposal is allowing too much latitude or authority to individual commissioners in respect of the certification of industrial agreements. There has also been some criticism that this proposal means that the public interest will not be adequately catered for. It is important in my view that the Committee should remember that specific statutory functions are set out in the Act covering the functions of members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Section 18 of the Act states: 
The Commission is empowered to prevent or settle industrial disputes by conciliation and arbitration. 
This is the Commission's function; it is the reason for which it is given life. That is the way in which the Commission is required to create good will in industry. Paragraph (c) of sub-section (1.) of section 40 of the Act, which deals with the procedures of the Commission, states: the Commission shall act according to equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case, without regard to technicalities and legal forms. 
This is the provision which governs the conduct of the Commission and its members. It is the Commission's charter. A member of the Commission takes an oath on receiving his commission to act according to equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case. Surely it is not suggested that any member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would turn his face against the public interest in carrying out that charter. After all, what is meant by the words equity and good conscience'? He would not, without breaching his commission and his oath of office, certify an agreement which, as it were, took away the rights of one section of the community or infringed upon the rights of other sections of the community. But what the Opposition is suggesting is what former Ministers frequently said when there were decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of which they did not approve. The Opposition wants to make the Arbitration Commission an economic unit, an organisation of economic planing and control, rather than an organisation or a commission designed to establish good industrial relations. In that endeavour it must fail. Indeed, the history of this country shows that governments which have attempted to establish a commission for that purpose have failed miserably. They do not have the support of the Australian people in that regard. 
All the amendment provides for in relation to this question of the public interest is its clarification. The matter involved must be a matter of major detriment to the public interest. The amendment requires also that in certain circumstances an individual commissioner, an individual presidential member of the Commission, may certify an agreement. Far too much emphasis has been placed by the Opposition and by the previous Government on the question of regulating agreements. The whole conciliation and arbitration system in Australian has been designed from the very early days to encourage agreements, to encourage amicable resolution of disputes. The principal object of the first Act in 1904 was to prevent strikes and lockouts. That was its purpose, and that was the purpose of those who were the architects of the system. In 1930 the emphasis switched. The emphasis was then expressed as being to create goodwill in industry. This is putting forward the same objective but in a more positive way. The most important feature of our whole process of conciliation and arbitration is to be able to achieve agreements. I congratulate - I have no hesitation in congratulating - the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  foi taking what is a bold' and an imaginative step forward towards the objective of obtaining agreements and settlement of disputes. 
We then have a clause in this Bill which has been ignored so far. It is one of the most important parts of the whole Bill and must be read in conjunction with the provisions which eliminate the discredited, useless and irritating penal clauses of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I refer to the provision which makes if obligatory for employees covered by agreements to be consulted. This is not just some piece of political window dressing. This is a provision which has a very real and very meaningful effect. AH students, practitioners, beneficiaries or combatants in the field of industrial relations today are seized with the importance of the problem of having a system under which industrial agreements, once made, will be honoured. All those concerned with industrial relations are perturbed that a number of the agreements which are made and which are beneficial in their result are not being kept. Unions are finding difficulty in some industries in having the men maintain the agreements. This amendment is designed to encourage, on the part of employees in particular industries, a personal involvement in and a personal commitment to an agreement or a code of working conditions covering their particular employment. It is based on a faith in the collective integrity and collective honour of men and women in our community. I believe that that faith will not be misplaced. I firmly believe, and my experience has shown, that where men and women employees of an industry understand that they have made an agreement or commitment to an industrial code, the commitment is almost invariably kept. No citizen desires to create the impression that he is breaking his word or breaking an agreement which he has freely entered into. 
The alternative to the far-sighted approach contained in this Bill is the old approach which has always proved to be impracticable - the imposition of fines and penalties. The imposition of a fine on a union when a group of workers is defying the union leadership is useless. It causes irritation and bitterness and achieves nothing. A problem with workers in defiance of a union is not resolved, by fining the union. Some people say that the next step to be taken is to fine the individual employees. That is a marvellous suggestion. The only problem is that not one employer in Australia, with the possible exception of a previous Postmaster-General, has shown any willingness or readiness to apply for a penalty  against individual employees. A former PostmasterGeneral decided to take this action but when the matter was explained to him in some detail and in some depth he withdrew from the action, as he was well advised to do. 
No employer is interested in imposing penalties on individual employees. An employer involved in an industrial dispute is interested in obtaining a resolution of that dispute so that production can be restarted and continued. This Bill is designed truly to create a situation where we may achieve goodwill in industry. It is designed to ensure that employees understand and are part of the commitment, and that they understand, accept and support the industrial code which will govern their conditions of employment during the period for which it is made. 1 ask that the Committee endorse this proposal, accept it and reject the criticisms made. 
Clauses agreed to. 
The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  is so confused and his recollection of history is .so vague that he has made a horrible blunder. He has referred to his conversation with the former general secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation, the late  Mr Healy.  He has recounted how he bad  Mr Healy  trembling in his shoes as he threatened to bring in legislation. 
Yes, I am sure he did, but the right honourable gentleman must have magnificent powers because when he was threatening  Mr Healy  he had already been dead for 4 years. The right honourable gentleman has now left the chamber, I think knowing of his error. 
I am indebted to the Postmaster-General for that interjection. The facts of the matter are that the legislation to which the right honourable gentleman referred before he hurriedly left the chamber was introduced in 196S, and the late  Mr Healy  died in 1961. There are the facts. The right honourable gentleman, with his great and supernatural power, had the late  Mr Healy  trembling in his shoes. So that is the power of the right honourable gentleman. He is hopelessly confused. Of course, what he did not bother to tell the Committee was that having made these threats - I think to  Mr 
Fitzgibbon and not to  Mr Healy  - and having introduced his far-reaching and repressive legislation in 196S, he then agreed to a request of the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, of which I was a member, to establish a conference between the warring parties to try, by conciliation, to resolve what appeared to be the interminable disputes in the stevedoring industry. To their credit, the right honourable member for Lowe and the then Prime Minister agreed with that proposition and there was established what was called the Woodward Committee. Subsequently it was enshrined in legislation by the right honourable gentleman's successor and called the Ntaional Stevedoring Industry Council. The Woodward Committee - subsequently the Council - has so arranged employeremployee relationships in the stevedoring industry that disputes are now very rare in that industry. 
There was a revolution in working conditions on the waterfront. By 1967 casual employment in all the major ports either had been eliminated or was in the process of elimination. Permanent employment was introduced. Security of employment replaced insecurity and uncertainty of employment. Of course the disputes disappeared but was that because of the threats that the right honourable gentleman claims to have made to  Mr Healy  or to somebody else or because of his legislation or is it not more legitimate to claim that the disputes disappeared because of the sensible, intelligent working arrangements made as a result of conciliation and negotiation. The notion that sanctions prevent strikes is nonsense and history clearly establishes it to be nonsense. The worst era for stoppages and strikes in the metal trades industry was in 1968 at a time when the greatest number of penal sanctions ever used in that industry were invoked. The greatest number of fines ever imposed was in that era  -  1968-69  -  following the metal trade's margins decision. Did that stop strikes? It certainly did not. The highest number of penalties imposed equates with the greatest period of industrial disputation. 
In 1972 the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia decided to change away from imposition of penalties and sanctions and to try to work out the differences by conciliation and negotiation. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who is sitting at the table, will recognise that what occurred during the period, when he was Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service, was a new era of industrial peace in, the metal trades industry - an era of industrial peace which had not been seen in a quarter of a century. Wages disputes are rare in the industry now because agreements are made and kept by both sides. 
Of course, the suggestion that all sanctions are being removed from the Act is not true. What are being removed are the discriminatory, unfair and harsh sanctions which flow from the most fictitious form of contempt imaginable in the English speaking world. There is no other legal process where contempt of court may be manufactured in the way that it may be under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The honourable member for Corangamite is shaking his head. I ask him to nominate when he speaks one other section of the law in Australia where contempt may be manufactured in this way. It is a fictitious contempt and every legal practitioner who has had some experience in this field agrees that it is a fictitious contempt. What is being eliminated is the process of this fictitious, manufactured contempt of court, where there is a whole series of steps which parties must tread - steps which must be taken in order to create a contempt which is not otherwise there. 
What honourable member could seriously suggest that a strike is holding a tribunal up to ridicule and hatred? It is nonsense to suggest that. A strike is not an argument with a court or a judge - particularly a court or judge which has no jurisdiction to settle the dispute. A strike is the result of an industrial dispute between employer and employee. Whether we go back in history to the methods used to transport recalcitrant workers to the colonies - and this did not prevent strikes or the organisation of trade unions; whether we look at the steps taken in Nazi Germany to send such strikers and workers to the concentration camps; whether we look at the tactics in eastern Europe where strikers were slaughtered with the guns and tanks of the Soviet Army; or whether we look at these miserable, contemptible and harsh penalties which have been divised through this legislation, none has ever resolved an industrial dispute. Whether we use the jackboot or the wig, the dispute itself has to be settled and the imposition of penalties will not resolve the matter. 
As the Minister for Labour pointed out, the employer is not compelled to operate a business that is not so profitable as to encourage him to continue its operation. Unless the business is sufficiently profitable and gives the employer the sort of reward that he feels is justified, he is not compelled to operate the business. On the other hand, the employee who offers his labour for financial reward can be compelled to continue to work for a particular company or a particular corporation. These are not figments of imagination. The examples are enshrined, if that is the word, in the case law of this country. Employees who have refused to offer for work or employees who have sought to leave their employment have been held to be on strike and their unions have been fined. Nowhere has an empployer who decided to close down his business or to move it elsewhere or simply not to operate a particular line of production any further been fined under our arbitration laws. Such is the discrimination against which we fight, will continue to fight and hopefully will see eliminated from the legislation of this Parliament in this session. 
At the outset I think it is appropriate to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on grasping the nettle in the terribly important sphere of superannuation, whether in the Commonwealth field or elsewhere. Certainly this Bill deserves the support that apparently it is to get from all honourable members. The Commonwealth superannuation scheme currently suffers by comparison with very many other pension and superannuation schemes available to employees comparable to Commonwealth public servants. This is particularly true of a comparison with schemes provided for comparable employees of private organisations. Some private schemes are substantially more generous, particularly for senior executives. Of course, private and public companies make substantial tax savings through the operation of superannuation schemes and that is undoubtedly an incentive to them to introduce what in some cases are quite generous superannuation funds. 
It should be remembered that at present the Commissioner of Taxation allows for income tax purposes up to $100,000 as being the norm from which superannuation schemes may be granted tax exemption. This of course is beyond the wildest dream of a Commonwealth employee. Such benefits will never come his way under the scheme as it presently stands. The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  complained about the cost of this amendment. Let me remind him that the cost pf justice is never cheap and if we are concerned about justice, then we are concerned about meeting the cost, whatever it is. The cost of this scheme would not have been great if previous governments over a long period of years had operated this Fund on a reasonable basis. In other words, if governments had been prepared to make a reasonable contribution into the Fund at the time the employees were contributing to the Fund, in the same way as other employers do, much of the present difficulty would have been avoided. The honourable member for Berowra also complained about the likelihood, as he put it, of this provision becoming a pacesetter for other superannuation funds. I certainly hope that he is correct in his fears and in his prediction because this is a highly desirable objective. 
It is apparent that the Commonwealth scheme was never designed to meet the severe inflationary pressures that we have experienced in recent years. The contributions required at present of employees to enable them to receive a reasonable pension can be very high. The normal thing is for officers to be paying about 10 per cent of salary in order to achieve benefits which are inferior to those obtainable by persons outside the Public Service on the payment of 5 per cent of their salary. Plenty of examples are available to illustrate this point. I will not weary the House by citing them tonight but it is sufficient to say that large companies and large government authorities have schemes which operate on the basis of employer and employee contributions at the time, and return significantly greater benefits than those which are paid to Commonwealth employees, and the employees concerned pay a lower contribution. Therefore, some public servants are required to pay a substantially higher percentage of their income for an inferior result. 
The position now is that the Commonwealth superannuation scheme is adjusted on an irregular basis, almost on the basis of the political whim of the Government of the day. It is done on the basis of a notional salary being adjusted at irregular intervals and related to the position occupied by the officer prior to retirement. Under this Bill, a new scheme has been devised. Each retired person will have his superannuation payment adjusted each year. The basis of 1.4 per cent times the increase shown in the consumer price index is, indeed, a modest adjustment. In some ways, it is inferior to the other scheme. The advantage, of course, is that this adjustment will be carried out every year. If this had been done over the last 10 years, many people who were forced to live almost in a state of poverty - they were the recipients of lower superannuation benefits - certainly would have been much better off. 
The public servant is in no specially privileged position in regard to superannuation. Public servants pay very heavily indeed for the benefits that they receive. In many cases, they pay substantially more than the maximum allowable taxation deduction. So, in effect, they are paying tax on part of the amount which they are contributing to this scheme. Generally speaking, this is not the case outside the Public Service. Many who have paid heavily and made substantial sacrifices during their working lives have found that inflation has robbed them of any substantial benefits and has certainly robbed them of the benefit that they expected when they were contributing to this Fund. 
Superannuation has been an area of complete neglect by previous governments. Indeed, one would be tempted to say that adjustments to superannuation payments have been on the basis of seeking to gain political advantage. This Government, in introducing legislation which has the support of all sections of this House, is putting this question - yet another question - beyond the area of the political football match. Of course, there would be hundreds of thousands of citizens outside the Public Service - those who are over retiring age and those who are approaching retiring age - who will be watching the concept contained in this Bill with great interest. 
The matter of Commonwealth superannuation presently is under review, as is the matter of superannuation generally. It is well for us to realise that today the number of persons who are in some form of superannuation scheme has risen to about one-half the total work force. One of the many factors which needs to be taken into account when designing a new scheme is the likely possibility of a reduced working life being considered desirable before any further review of a substantial nature is undertaken. Mechanisation and the use of advanced technology in the various aspects of Commonwealth enterprise is a fact of life. We can safely anticipate that it will continue at a rapid and consistently increasing rate. These changes are spread over a very wide area. Almost all functions of government are affected in some way or other. Inevitably, this will mean that much more work will be capable of being done in a substantially shorter time. 
It is generally accepted that there will be a general reduction in hours of work as the needs of the community are able to be met with less effort by the community itself. This will be achieved in an earlier retiring age, as well as by generally reducing weekly and annual hours of work. Already significant numbers of Commonwealth officers and employees retire earlier than at age 65. Many are forced to retire earlier on account of poor health or some form of physical limitation. There are, of course, other factors which require Commonwealth employees to retire earlier than at age 65. We need a scheme which will be flexible enough to cater for future needs, including the provision of an adequate income during the retirement period. The Australian people generally no longer are prepared to accept the false notion that those who retire can be regarded as second class citizens with second class needs and, certainly, with second class benefits. This community has now reached the stage where it demands for those who retire the right to live in dignity and to spend their evening years with a reasonable standard of comfort. In my opinion, the community takes the view that those who contribute to wealth during their working life and who make possible the wealth to be distributed, are entitled to share in it when they find it convenient to call it a day in terms of their working life. 
The erosion by inflation of the value of contributions made to superannuation schemes is a matter of critical importance in any scheme which is developed. It is a matter of critical importance whether it is a government scheme, a scheme set up by a private company for the privileged few of its directors or whether it is a scheme designed to cater for the most humble worker on the factory floor. 
Erosion by inflation is the curse of superannuation schemes. 
Professor Pollard in looking at the Commonwealth scheme has made a specific recommendation that the investment powers of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund should be widened in order to meet this problem of inflation. Professor Pollard has made some suggestions which I have no doubt will be carefully considered. Of course, in my view, they are not necessarily the most desirable changes to adopt but nonetheless they are certainly entitled to careful consideration as alternative proposals which will be advanced to meet this problem. It is absolutely imperative for the successful operation of this Fund and of any other fund that it should be protected against the erosion of inflation. As one protects the Fund against inflation, so one protects the income of those who virtually have little opportunity to protect themselves. The retired employee must be entitled to feel secure after a lifetime of service and contribution. In my view, he is not entitled to suffer the fears and uncertainties that arise from inflation and the erosion of his income from a superannuation fund. 
It would be inappropriate at this stage for me to discuss the many defects in the present scheme. The entire scheme presently is under review. This Government has shown that it has concern and real feeling for aged people everywhere. This Government has also shown, as the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  pointed out earlier, that it is prepared to move speedily in respect of Commonwealth employees superannuation. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  confessed to the House earlier the shortcomings of the previous Government in terms of its acting speedily in respect of this issue but, of course, there are many people in the community who could point out to him that there was nothing new or discriminatory in that attitude. The previous Government acted very slowly and hesitantly in regard to almost every problem which confronted it. This Government will take adequate steps to protect the savings of employees and the benefits flowing to them from their superannuation or pension scheme. This Bill gives effect to the recommendation by Professor Pollard for annual review of the payments from this fund. It is interesting to note that Professor Pollard's report indicates that public service salaries are not increasing as quickly as average weekly earnings. This, of course, denies categorically the allegations which are being made that Australian public servants are enjoying some kind of a bonanza at present. It is well for public servants to realise the source of these allegations and how ill informed they are. The fact that future adjustments are to be made in accordance with movements in the consumer price index is not as beneficial in some ways as the old system, but it is a substantial improvement on the time gap which was involved in the old method. 
Under the new provisions superannuation payments will be maintained at the current level of purchasing power. This in itself gives a great feeling of security and indeed is a strong measure of justice. Inflation will no longer erode the real value of payments. It is hoped that this scheme will be taken up by the trustees and controllers of other funds in both State and local government and in private employment. Therefore this measure is a most significant step forward. It will have widespread support throughout the community as a whole. 1 believe that the Treasurer, in introducing this measure, deserves the highest commendation both of this Parliament and of the community generally. He will certainly have the gratitude of retired Commonwealth public servants and in my view will receive commendation from the mass of retired persons generally who depend on superannuation as their means of livelihood. 
I have no doubt that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was quite sincere in the submission he has made. It seems to me that he has made the speech a little later than he might have made it. While admitting that it was the previous government that introduced the scheme he then suggested that this Government should attempt immediately to cure the ills as he sees them. However, in making those comments he treated the employees of the stevedoring industry with less respect than he ought to have done. He made such references as 'comfortable featherbedding operating', 'paying people for nothing', and 'the tragedy of idle time in the industry'. No honourable member on this side of the House suggests that employees should be paid for doing nothing. Equally, no member on this side of the House believes that it is within the competence of management fully and completely to utilise the services of employees for every minute of every hour of the standard working week throughout the year. I simply remind the honourable gentleman that it would not be possible even for a person like himself fully to utilise the services and resources of horses on a farm for the full time that he may wish them to work. 
In other words, there is needed in every situation a degree of organisational and management skill which is frequently lacking in the stevedoring industry. Successive reports of inquiries into the stevedoring industry have had some rather sad things to say about its management efficiency. It is important also to realise that there has been a significant and consistent decrease in the number of stevedoring companies in this industry. As each year goes by the number of stevedoring companies becomes smaller. There may be some merit in the suggestion by the honourable member for Wakefield that the Stevedoring Industry Authority should employ all of the labour. That suggestion has been made before and received little or scant consideration by the previous government. No doubt the suggestion will be considered by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The Minister for Labour probably also will consider what is the most desirable scheme, and that is to have the one stevedoring authority in Australia - to nationalise the stevedoring industry because- 
Yes, 1 would advocate the nationalisation of the stevedoring industry as being one possible means of resolving a very complex problem which, 1 remind the hon ourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  it was completely and utterly beyond lis capacity to rectify 
Without any question it is my personal view. 1 believe that nationalisation of this industry would have much more vocal support amongst the people who would normally be foolish enough to support the Liberal Party than those people, who would be sensible enough to support this Government. If you check around you will see that what I am saying is correct. I have no doubt you know it to be correct, because I believe that representations were made to you a year ago to achieve this. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I ask the honourable member to address his remarks through the Chair. 
This Bill seeks to extend the temporary provisions which were first introduced in 1967 for a further period of 12 months. The temporary situation that has prevailed for the last 6 years will continue for at least another year. The last 6 years has been a period of indecision and uncertainty, lt was a period when the government of the day was uncertain what it should do or how it should go about it. The original provisions of the Bill flowed from the deliberations and the report of the National Stevedoring Industry Conference which was presided over by  Mr Woodward,  Q.C., as he then was. This, incidentally, is the conference which flowed from the legislation about which the honourable member for Lowe,  (Mr McMahon)  was speaking in this House last week. The honourable member made an error about whom he was speaking when he referred to the person who introduced legislation which was unworkable and indeed impracticable. 
The report recommended  permanent  employment of waterside workers. In doing so a very desirable result was achieved. It gave security to a group of employees who had never previously experienced it - security of employment which, in spite of the sad story told by the honourable member for Wakefield, has indeed brought about a considerable era of industrial peace which had not existed previously. In the process, we saw the previous government's attitude towards industrial relations. We saw the result of She legislation which threw 100 clerical employees out of employment. Those employees were on the permanent staff of the Stevedoring Industry Authority. Many of them received the handsome notice, of 7 days - the very minimum notice required. The then Minister for Labour assured this Parliament that nobody would suffer any loss. The fact of the matter was that serious disadvantage was suffered because of the provisions of the Furlough Act and the Superannuation Act. Employees with 9 years and 10 months service were to receive no benefit from the Superannuation Act at all. Employees with 4 years service would receive no benefit from the Furlough Act. Employees with  H  years service similarly would receive no benefit. It was the opposition of the Australian Labor Party both in this chamber and in the Senate which eventually brought about an amendment to both those statutes. The then Opposition delayed the passage of an amendment to the Furlough Act in the Senate and the Act was subsequently amended to provide that employees who were retrenched after 4 years service instead of after 8 years service, would receive the benefit of the Act. Similarly, with the Superannuation Fund employees receive the benefit after 1 year's service instead of being required to complete 10 years of service. One Minister for Labour and National Service told this Parliament that waterside workers received no severance pay. In answer to a question he said that waterside workers would not receive severance payment under the scheme. Of course he was correct in the term but incorrect in the statement. What waterside workers were to receive was redundancy payment. I am now speaking of a former Minister who several years *go made that statement in this Parliament. It was a distinction in terms but had no difference in effect. It was a statement which was correct in terms of actual words but certainly incorrect in terms of intent. 
Some of the men who were retrenched were transferred to stevedoring companies, the socalled operational companies, under the new scheme, but with the mergers, amalgamations and takeovers that have taken place some of them had to find work with other companies because they found that the new employment was less secure than the one they had left. In other words, they were out of a job. They were promised alternative Crown employment. This was denied. Subsequently in 1970 the then Minister for Labour and National Service, the gentleman who is now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  established a committee to advise him on the problems of the staff which may become redundant as a result of changes to the functions of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, and on the problems which would arise as the functions of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority contracted. There were many meetings. Little result was achieved. Indeed, on one occasion, on 10th July last year, a meeting was called for Melbourne. All members of the committee attended except one, the  chairman,  who was an officer of the Department of Labour and National Service. He had come to Canberra on the previous night and did not bother to tell any other member of the committee. He said that he had been called at midnight by the then Minister for Labour and National Service to come to Canberra and could not advise any other member. In fact, he had made the booking to travel to Canberra on the previous Thursday. This incident was indicative of the attitude of the previous Government to employees who suffered a retrenchment for no other purpose than to give effect to then Government policy. 
This Bill will continue the provisions applying to the stevedoring industry. There is still some uncertainty about what will occur in the future. I merely cite the facts that I have to show the way in which the previous Government had attacked the problem of industrial relations. I refer to them because the honourable member for Wakefield has been critical of the actions taken and now says that this Government should attack this problem with more vigour. The reward for loyalty by some employees of the government was to be denied reasonable standards and to be rejected in a time of need. Their future is still uncertain. Those who remain in this industry, those who remain employees of the Stevedoring Industry Authority, still face an uncertain future. Nobody has told them for how long they will have a job. The committee established by the former Minister for Labour and National Service, who is now the Leader of the Opposition, is about to finalise its report and will shortly make a report to the present Minister for Labour. I am sure he will give it sympathetic consideration. 
What we have to look at in respect of this Bill are the advantages. There are certainly still considerable problems - problems of organisation, problems of management, problems of utilisation of the available labour. I do not believe that there are highly excessive -numbers still in the industry. After ail, this needs some balancing. What one has to do is to determine the cost of having men idle for certain periods of the year compared with the cost of having ships idle for other periods of the year when there are insufficient men to man and work them. I agree that this is a question of delicate balancing, lt is a question of balancing out costs to see which is the greater, and in many instances it will be shown that it is far better to have some men idle for some of the time than to have ships idle and unable to be worked. This particularly applies in respect of export markets, particularly in respect of the export of rural products. 
There have been considerable changes in the industry apart from the question of permanent employment. The advent of containerisation and the advent of unitisation in various forms have been significant changes which have occurred since 1967. Another fact worth mentioning is that in respect to the industrial relations in the industry the 1972 agreement, which was made for a period of 2 years, was achieved without a strike. This is the first time in living memory that an award or agreement was made in this industry without a single strike occurring. Indeed, the prospect of an agreement without such a stoppage would not have been credible just a few years ago. It is very difficult to imagine a tough, vibrant industry such as the stevedoring industry being completely free of strike and industrial disputation, but a great deal has been achieved. The success of the negotiations in 1972 was due, to a very large degree, to the efforts of the Acting  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I remind honourable members opposite that he was acting as a conciliator, with his arbitral function in the background during the whole period. There is at the present time no provision for him to act in this way. There is of course provision in the Bill which has now passed this House and awaits the pleasure of the consideration of another chamber. 
It is my wish, and I am sure that honourable members on this side join in this, that during the next 12 months of temporary provisions permanent arrangements can be worked out, can be agreed and final legislation can be introduced. This is a most important industry. Its stability is necessary for Aus tralia's continuing development. 1 sincerely hope that when the stage is reached when it is necessary to bring in the final legislation honourable members opposite will consider the employees in the industry and not simply adopt the attitude: 'If we do not want them, if we do not need them, we can get rid of them'. I hope they will be concerned about all the employees in this industry, whether they be waterside workers, clerks, foremen or anybody else and treat them with the dignity they deserve and in the way in which we would wish to be treated ourselves. 
The speeches made on this Bill by honourable members opposite really represent very lonely words in an intellectual desert. Honourable members opposite have made a number of suggestions about what should be done to cure inflation, yet every suggestion they have made has been tried somewhere else in the world without success. The suggestions have been tried in the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada. Each one of those plans, when adopted in those countries, has caused hardship to groups of individuals, and in each case has failed to achieve the desired result. The establishment of this Prices Justification Tribunal will be welcomed universally by those who rely on wages, salaries or low and middle fixed incomes. There is no com fort in this Bill for those who utilise their power and position to gain wealth for themselves by exploiting others who are unable to defend themselves from the erosion and attack of inflation. 
Unregulated and spiralling prices cause severe hardship to most Australian citizens. Inflation attacks all sections, but the effect certainly is not equal. Farmers are affected in quite a different way from housewives. Wage and salary earners have to convince somebody else that their rates of wages or salaries should be increased. They are forced to convince either their employers or, alternatively, an independent arbitral tribunal that some wage or salary increase is justified. If they fail to convince the company or the employing authority of the justification of their claims, they do not gain an increase, unless in turn they are able to establish the justice of their claims to the arbitral tribunal concerned. Persons who rely on superannuation payments, government pensions or social service payments are almost defenceless. The aged, sick and infirm are the worst affected in our society. They have little power. They generally are unable to exercise the physical capacity to defend themselves against the effects of inflation. They usually suffer the most, whereas ethical considerations demand that they should have the greatest protection. 
Not less than one-third of all wage and salary earners in Australia are totally dependent on the awards made by arbitral tribunals for their level of income. These are the employees who receive no over-award payments. All employees of the Commonwealth, State and local governments and various government authorities are paid only the award minimum wage. For these employees the minimum wage fixed by arbitral tribunals is also the maximum wage. Employees who are engaged in areas of employment outside the major cities also are entirely dependent on award wages as their maximum rate. Even in cases where the employees have bargaining strength, extra payments that may be negotiated on their behalf are related directly to the appropriate award rate. It follows, therefore, that practically all wage and salary earners are required to justify to some appropriate body or tribunal any claims they may have for an increase in the financial reward for their services. 
This is certainly not the case in regard to the fixing of the prices of goods and services. When a wage increase is awarded it is only as a result of long discussion and argument and, in some cases, very close and careful consideration. In my view there is absolutely no doubt and there can be no argument that many price increases are unjustified. For example, if one were to look at rents one would see a startling position. The consumer price index figures supplied by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics show that rent for privately owned dwellings in Australia has increased by 49 per cent since 1967. In 6 years rent has increased by this extravagant amount. Pensioners, young married people and all who have not the capital resources to provide a personally owned home are the victims. To test whether this increase is within the bounds of reasonableness one should make a comparison with the increase which has occurred in the rent for government owned dwellings. Over the same period the increase in rent for government owned houses was 29 per cent. So we see that rent for privately owned houses has increased substantially faster than rent for government owned dwellings. 
One must also take into account for very careful consideration, when looking at prices generally as a cause of inflation, the fact that there is extensive collusion in the fixing of prices. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament,  Mr Sydney  D. Einfeld, has made a particular study of this matter. Over recent years he has constantly exposed substantial evidence of collusion, but it has fallen on the deaf ears of governments which stand in the place of privilege. Governments in New South Wales have been concerned with the preservation of privilege rather than with the preservation or even the establishment of consumer protection. In this House the apostles of privilege presently occupy the Opposition benches. Their effort in this debate has been sufficient to ensure that they will stay there for a long time to come. Their idea of correcting inflation is to kick the wage and salary earner, and to kick him hard. To cut down costs they say: 'Suppress wages; suppress salaries. Do not affect the prices. Whatever else is done, do not look at the other elements of inflation. Do not consider interest rates. Do not consider over-capitalisation. Just leave aside all these things.' They just trot out the hackneyed phrases. They just trot out- 
Bill read a second time. 
 I am very happy to join with the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  tonight in making a special plea for a group of dedicated young men. From time to lime a great deal is said about the shortcomings of the youth of this country, yet along the 20 miles or so of the coastline around Sydney every weekend hundreds of young men give unselfishly of their time in devotion to the cause of the protection of others. These young men protect those who are participating in recreation and sport against the dangers of the surf. The dangers of the surf are real; they are not imaginary. Without these young men and their constant vigilance one could not estimate the number of lives that would possibly be lost through drowning, shark attack or other mishaps that can occur in the surf. 
These young men patrol the beaches; they ensure good conduct in the water; they ensure the safety of our citizens. Not only that, these men and youths assist in the development of still younger people - the children - in the sport of surfing, in the recreation of the surf and the beach, and also in the development of a spirit of service to other men and women. What is of concern is the assistance they can expect from the Government. One who preceded me as the member for Phillip, now  Senator Joe  Fitzgerald, first advocated Commonwealth Government assistance for the surf life saving movement in this country. He succeeded in that the previous government started a form of aid which has been continued. That aid, valuable though it is, is not sufficient for the purposes of the life saving movement. That aid goes almost exclusively to the administration of the Surf Life Saving Association. Valuable though that may be, more assistance is needed. The assistance is needed on the beach where immediate help is given to those in difficulty. 
As the honourable member for Warringah has said, this is not merely a political matter. It is a matter which should attract the sympathetic attention of all members of this House. This is a life saving service. This is a service which truly saves lives. It also saves injury. It is active in the development of the personalities and the bodies of the youth of this country. The life savers should not be dependent on charity for their continued existence or on the whim of business or on the decision of some benefactor to hand out occasionally a donation. These people are entitled to the support of the community. The only way in which adequate community support can be given is through the attention of this Parliament. 
Each weekend during the summer months we watch a very vigorous and spectacular sport. It is a great recreation for those who want to watch the surf carnivals. It is a wonderful recreation and a very healthy exercise for those who wish to participate in the sport. Those who participate need this assistance. In this country we have the greatest beaches in the world and we have the greatest band of men voluntarily giving their services every weekend. They deserve the support of this Parliament. 
It is gratifying, I suppose, to note that the Opposition is not opposing this legislation. I rather gained the impression, however, from the speech made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that his support was very much along the line of the Mark Anthony speech. Whilst supporting the proposition, he found many queries to raise and many obstacles to place in its way. He had much criticism to make of the present Government Much of that criticism, indeed the overwhelming majority of it, is completely without any foundation. He seeks to take upon himself the role of praising the former Government in which of course he was responsible for this type of legislation. He put it that the former Government had been very concerned to assist women in employment in respect of their training and child care. The position really is that the previous Government ignored the difficulties of families. It. completely ignored the maternity benefits now being paid. It made only passing reference to and expressed only passing concern for the payment of child endowment. It in fact left the family man to find his own feet and do the best he could. 
That sort of approach is not one which is consistent with allowing the Opposition to attack this Government in its concern for families and those members of families who are forced to work. In fact in this day and age, m spite of all the modern technology, we find that the average family needs to spend more time at work to provide for the needs of that family than did our grandfathers and great grandparents a hundred years ago. It was necessary in those days for the breadwinner to work 60 hours a week to provide for the needs of the family unit. Today we find that the male in the family unit is working a standard week of 40 hours and an average amount of overtime of 4.3 hours. In more than one-third of the cases the wife is also working for up to 40 hours a week. So it can be seen that on the average the working week of the family has been extended in order to provide for the basic needs of the family unit. This Bill represents a significant step towards the removal of a very grave aspect of discrimination against women in employment. It is restricted in many ways. It is confined to employees in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Mir RIORDAN- I will come to the question of domestic working women. It was hoped during their period of office in this Parliament of some 23 years, a full generation, the friends of the honourable member may have shown some concern for domestic work ing women and may have taken some economic steps which would have avoided the necessity for so many of our women to be in employment today. I believe that even a cursory glance at the available statistics will establish beyond any shadow of a doubt that the overwhelming majority of female employees who are married are continuing in employment to do no more than to supplement the family income and so to provide the basic needs. So it ill behoves the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  or any other honourable member opposite, after the long period that they had in government and during which they refused to do anything to assist the family unit, now to criticise this Government which is in its early stages. As a community we should ensure that the mother's role should be made easier rather than harder. 
Although this provision will apply only to the Commonwealth Public Service in the immediate sense it will allow a useful sociological and economic experiment to be undertaken in this community. The result of this experiment will be a very useful guide for others in the future. I agree with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that once the success of this experiment is illustrated and once its benefits are so obvious to the community as a whole others will follow suit. 1 sincerely hope that that will be so. But of course this legislation can only have an effect within the Commonwealth Public Service. At the present time there is provision for maternity leave in the Commonwealth Public Service but it is confined to certain groups. It is much more limited than the provision of this Bill and it also applies only to those who are classified as permanent. On the other hand those who are classified as temporary employees, which is the way in which some employees are described although they may have given many years of service, are not entitled to receive any benefit. 
The provisions of this Bill are consistent with the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation made in 1919 and therefore deserves to be supported by all sections of the Community. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition attacked the Bill as being inconsistent with the provisions of the appropriate ILO Convention. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  did not state that it was identical with the ILO Convention. What the Minister was concerned to point out was that this was consistent with that convention, and so it is. The ILO Convention is designed to overcome discrimination against married women in employment who have families, and this legislation certainly does that. 
We should have regard to the fact that women workers are playing an increasingly significant role in the Australian economy. The introduction of more advanced technology has resulted in a greater demand for female labour. The result is that one-third of all married women are now included in the national labour force. Married women now represent a far greater proportion of the female work force. In 1933 only 5.4 per cent of women workers in Australia were married. In 1947 this percentage had increased to 15.3 per cent of the total female work force. But in 1971 almost 60 per cent of all female workers in Australia were married. 
It is also of considerable significance in considering this type of legislation to realise that the latest figures show that 8.3 per cent of all children born in 1970 had unmarried mothers. This is double the percentage in 1948. This illustrates that in this type of legislation we have not only concern for those who are part of a married family unit but also a growing concern for unmarried mothers in this community. I say without hesitation, for my own part that these young women need protection, sympathy and encouragement and they deserve to be assisted back into employment after the period of their confinement. In 1970, 15,000 children were borne by single mothers between the ages of 15 and 24 years. This provision will help those young mothers. If it did nothing else but assist those in that position it would certainly be worth while. 
We also must recognise and take account of the fact that there are more than half a million married women in employment whose ages are between 25 and 44 years. As the average marrying age has decreased from 25.5 years in 1948 to 21.4 in 1971, it can be seen from an examination of available statistics that the great majority of married women return to employment to supplement the family income. It is true that some return to employment to follow a career or to take up where they left off in the pursuit of a career or where they left off in some professional pursuit. But the undeniable fact is that one income is no longer sufficient to satisfy the needs of most family units. 
Other countries have given earlier attention to this matter. Sweden, Switzerland, certain provinces in Canada, some States in the United States of America, to name a few, have tackled this problem and looked at it in one way or another. Indeed some 68 countries have made some provision for maternity benefits in this or similar ways. If married women were forced to abandon employment for whatever reason the capacity of Australian industry and commerce would be shattered. The Australian economy at the present time is dependent on large numbers of married women being in active employment. Maternity leave is but one aspect of the many difficulties currently facing working mothers. In this I agree with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. My disagreement with him is that for 23 years his colleagues and he had the opportunity actively to do something about the problem and they did nothing. They refused to tackle this problem in any concerted way. 
The absence of adequate child minding facilities is a major problem in itself. It is a major inhibition and a major difficulty for married mothers. In a survey conducted by the Bureau of Census and Statistics in 1969 it was found that 400,000 working mothers had responsibility for children under 12 years of age. Of 270,000 children of working mothers who were under 6 years of age only 7 per cent were placed in child care centres. The results showed that 91,500 women with children under 6 years of age said that they would work if suitable child minding facilities were available. I remind the honourable gentlemen opposite that 1969 was 3 years before the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition moved out of the Ministry and this fact was known then.  His  effort, significant though it may have been, was indeed very small and very slight. 
Maternity leave does not overcome the problem, but it does remove a barrier to happy motherhood. The mother is able to leave work and after making alternative arrangements for the care of her child may return to employment without the economic losses which used to be involved. These mothers will not have to start all over again on an incremental salary scale, for example. They are to be re-employed in their former positions or at a level as near as possible to them if the former positions are not available. The concept of this Bill is to provide fair greater equality of opportunity for women. It removes from the Commonwealth Public Service a selective and camouflaged discrimination which has no place in the Australian way of life. It recognises that the birth of an Australian child is something to be encouraged. It represents a community benefit both economically and culturally. It illustrates that the Government is placing a far greater emphasis on the quality of life. 
This Government can be seen to be actively pursuing the goal of achieving happiness in our community. It will allow young women to have their children and return to employment either to pursue a career or to provide funds for the purchase of a house or some other necessity of life. We cannot, as a Parliament, ignore the economic strains and pressures on young couples today. The cost of providing the basic necessities of life has increased so dramatically that they frequently cannot be provided through one wage or salary. The concept of this Bill is to make life a little easier for those families of which the mother has to work. When measuring the cost of granting this leave one must take into account the enormous savings in both direct and indirect costs of training new and inexperienced employees. I for one would have been much more impressed with the criticism of the cost of this legislation if some attempt had been made at least to acknowledge that the cost to Australian industry of training new employees when married women leave employoment is enormous and is an enormous strain on government expenditure in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Women workers returning to employment after absence on maternity leave need virtually no additional training in order to recommence employment. Of course, the Bill also provides for parental leave for the father. This is another move which is to be encouraged. Frequently there is a situation of grave sociological consequences when young children are left virtually unattended while the mother is absent in hospital during her confinement. In every social reform there has been some reluctance and fear. Neither is justified in this case. This Bill is a milestone in my view in the drive against discrimination. It removes an obstacle to female career employment in the Commonwealth Public Service. It must be gratifying to all those who for so many years have fought and struggled against discrimination against female employees to know that on this occasion this legislation will pass through this Parliament without opposition and that it will have support, in varying degrees of vigour, from all members on both sides of this Parliament. 
I am sure that all members of this House will recognise the very responsible and progressive attitude adopted by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  We on this side of the House share his concern that the office of the Australian Electoral Office as it will now be known has for long been under-valued and not given the status it deserves. We should consider when looking at this Bill that we are virtually considering the status and the remuneration of those men who are virtually in charge of the democratic concept in this country. These are the men who supervise the elections. They are entitled to be regarded as having very responsible positions. They are entitled to be rewarded for the responsibility which they exercise. This, I hope, is the beginning of a new look and a new structure within the Electoral Office. True it is that this Bill virtually takes the Commonwealth electoral officers outside the purview of the Public Service Act or the jurisdiction of the Public Service Board and brings them, as the right honourable member for Lowe has said, under the direct control of this Parliament - a place where they should be. This is not an ordinary Commonwealth Public Service function; it is not a matter merely of administration. The very election of this House and the Senate is under their control. 
We are concerned also that the officers and staff in the electoral divisions are frequently overworked. There is insufficient staff in many of those divisions to cater for the many and changing needs of electorates, and they do not receive the salary status to which they are entitled. Indeed, until recently, they were classified as class 5 officers and to the credit of this Governfment since it has been in power the Public Service Board has at least upgraded them by one salary range. But their old classification was that of class 5 - the same classification, for example, as that of a vocational officer for the Department of Labour. It was a totally and completely inadequate classification. Indeed, as things stand now, they are still inadequately rewarded for the responsibilities that they have. They are not given a proper remuneration for the many and varied functions that they perform. 
However, it is not just the functions that they perform which must be considered; it is also the responsibility involved in those functions. I am also concerned at the way the staff is treated. For example, those who are responsible for checking electoral rolls are, more often than not, casual employees engaged for a particular period and they go round from door to door determining whether or not persons whose names appear on the roll are entitled to be enrolled. This is a tremendous responsibility. In my view, it is simply not good enough to have it on the basis that a casual employee, casually engaged, perhaps for one period and never again, should undertake this responsibility. In my own electorate the number of changes in the roll runs into tens of thousands in every 3 -year period. For example, 10,000 changes in a year is not exceptional. This would be 10,000 on the roll and perhaps another 8,000 or 9,000 off in a period of a year - an enormous number of changes which have to be collated. 
But the most important thing is that this Parliament must ensure that every person who is entitled to vote has the opportunity to vote and it must also ensure that no person who is not entitled to vote should ever cast a ballot in an electorate. Those are very important considerations. In my view, the Electoral Office is the custodian of the democratic concept. I know the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is seized with the importance and the urgency to upgrade the responsibilities and the remuneration of these officers and also to ensure that proper steps are taken to make it possible for every person who is entitled to vote to vote. Also, apart from that is the consideration that every person who has a responsibility to vote in the election of this Parliament should exercise it consistent with the laws of this country. 
This is not a matter on which one need delay the House because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, all members on this side would be grateful to the right honourable member for Lowe for the constructive attitude which he and the Opposition have adopted to this Bill. This is as it should be. The matter of electoral laws and the administration of the electoral laws should be beyond the realms of political partnership and for that reason we support the Bil] and acknowledge the support from the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. In the interim report of the Committee for the Australian Schools Commission tabled in this House yesterday it is shown that 33,000 Australian children are attending schools and classes for handicapped children. Is the Minister able to indicate whether the Government proposes to adopt the recommendation of the Committee in respect of assistance towards the education of handicapped children? Further, is the Minister able to state what plans the Government has to develop a scheme for the training of the physically and mentally handicapped so that they may acquire the necessary technical and other skills to allow them to lead useful adult lives? Will the Government seek the active co-operation of Australian employers to overcome present barriers which unnecessarily inhibit the employment of handicapped persons in industry and commerce? 
Has the Minister for Immigration read a report in the newsletter Inside Canberra' alleging an American leader of the Mafia had arrived in Australia? If this report is true, what action is being taken in this case? Will the Minister state what the current position is in respect of criminals seeking to enter Australia? 
I  wish to address some remarks to the important subject of sport and sporting facilities. The surf life saving movement in Australia is constituted by a dedicated band of young men who devote their time and energy to a noble community service. Their role is one of protection and assistance. They patrol the surf beaches of this country in order to prevent accidents. If accidents should occur, in spite of their efforts, they give such assistance as is necessary. If surfers get into difficulty, they render assistance to them and, in many cases, save lives. In many annual surf club reports presently being published the words 'no lives were lost' appear. In that very negative statement a very positive ideal is expressed. It is a positive achievement beyond the expectation of most. These young men give up their time free of charge. They risk body and limb in order to protect other human beings. They supervise rules and regulations which are designed to prevent accidents on the beach and in the surf. They prevent accidents such as collisions between surfers and board riders. 
Surfing in this country is a wonderful sport; it is a magnificent recreation. In some circumstances, however, it can be a very dangerous sport indeed and lives have been lost. Freak accidents can and frequently do occur. The vagaries of the surf and the sea are unpredictable things. The surf life saving movement is engaged in a task which deserves the gratitude of the whole community and the recognition of this Parliament. What is not generally recognised about this movement is the work that is done for the very young. Small boys are trained to be good young Australians. They are taught to develop healthy bodies and they are taught and encouraged to have a healthy spirit - a spirit of fellowship and tolerance. Their cause is one of dedication to their fellow man. 
Last night we heard that a sum of $150,000 is to be set aside for their work in the coming financial year. This is $100,000 more than was allocated previously and it is a real incentive to these young men who have to beg for the provision of facilities by which they save lives. Surely there is no parallel to this in our community. Surely there is no other group which has to go out on the street, to run raffles and to take around the hat. as it were, to raise the funds to provide community services and who give all their time free to save lives of other Australians. This Government has now brought forward a plan whereby dollar for dollar will be matched on the basis of $100,000 being made available for this noble work. 
There is a national inability to relax. We find today that more and more of our funds are being spent on pills and potions to assist our population to relax from the cares of life. We are developing into a nation of pill takers. Previous governments have not felt it necessary or desirable, for reasons best known to themselves, but which are obscure to me, to try to prevent this tension and hypertension which are pervading our society. I strongly believe in the statement that prevention is better than cure. The encouragement for people to relax - the assistance to encourage an attitude of relaxation and recreation - is something which we should put to the fore. This proposal, which was outlined by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  is an encouragement, not for our citizens to win at every sport or to engage in excessive, competitiveness, but to have a go, to relax. We need a scheme of adult recreation and relaxation. The aged as well as the young have needs. 
To improve the quality of life is perhaps the central and basic theme on which this Government was elected and the central and basic theme on which this Government has acted so far. I believe the present allocation is only the start. It is a vital break-through of government attitudes in Australia. It is a break with the attitude of indifference which have characterised the past. This is not just for champions; this is for everybody. Champions are not to be denigrated. They are the ones who create the inspiration for others to follow. We have put forward a scheme to provide facilities for those who do not have the capaicty to win but every citizen has the capacity to participate in some form of relaxation, whatever the limitation of capacity and whatever the disability may be. 
Australia is the last developed country in the world to accept the reseponsibility for encouragement of proper use of leisure time. Automation and advanced technology which is developing at a rapid rate must create the means for greater leisure. The question is: How do we spend it? Is it to be wasted or is it to be used for useful pursuits? The performing arts were given real encouragement in the Budget introduced last night, but sport has not been neglected on this occasion and there is real encouragement. I hope and believe that this Government recognises that our youth needs encouragement. The establishment knocks the youth of this country. They are ridiculed because of their hair styles and their mode of dress, but under the long hair, under the unconventional style of dress there are very fine young men, the young men who will develop this country and make it a better place to live in. What we need to do in this Parliament is to recognise that and to recognise that they need encouragement and assistance to cope with the strains that we have developed for them. 
We must not neglect the need for healthy bodies. It has been proved beyond doubt by serious study that better work and better performance will be achieved when there are healthy bodies, when the population is physically fit. European countries are spending large sums of money on physical and mental recreation. The German and Japanese industries spend huge sums of money on physical fitness of employees. They have found that it reduces absenteeism, and much more importantly it reduces the accident rate in industry I believe that the Minister is considering measures designed to encourage industries to play a more active role in this direction, and I am sure that he will have the support of the trade union movement and responsible employers in his efforts, and he certainly has and deserves the support of members on this side of the House and, I hope, on the other side. The central point to be remembered is that employees are people. 
It is possibly significant that Australia's greatest success in the last Olympic Games was in water sports - 6 gold medals in swimming, 2 in yachting. Australia has been very fortunately blessed with natural resources for water sports. They do not need to be provided; they are already provided by nature. The cheapest subsidy is in respect of water sports because we have the facilities specially provided. I think that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation has made a most auspicious start in pioneering a new concept, a new aspect in Australian Government. August 21 is a day which will be remembered for generations as the day we started this new concept. The Minister deserves the gratitude of Australia and the encouragement of this House, and I believe he will receive both. We must not denigrate, we must not underestimate the natural resources we have in this country for sport and. recreation. Bondi Beach, which I have the privilege to represent, is famous throughout the world as a magnificent water sport area. It is a symbol of the Australian way of life, of relaxation, of the surf, the sun and the sand. It is to Australia, and particularly to the great city of 
Sydney, what Times Square is to New York. I wish to place on record my appreciation and that of my electorate of the attitude the Minister for Tourism and Recreation has adopted and the steps he has taken so far in this Parliament. 
The speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  is remarkable in many respects. He sees the establishment of the principle of equality of voting as a means by which the Australian Labor Party will be entrenched in office for a long time and he quite blatantly and unashamedly opposes this legislation on that ground. What a concession for him to make. What a remarkable statement for him to make. As if that were not sufficient, he went on to suggest that over recent years the party polling the majority of votes has always been elected to government in this Parliament. That statement is simply incorrect. Three times in the last decade that has not been the case. In 1954 the Australian Labor Party polled 50.1 per cent of the votes and the Liberal Party and Country Party between them polled 47 per cent. The Labor Party had a majority of 3 per cent of the population of Australia voting for it and was in Opposition. In 1961 the Australian Labor Party polled 46.76 per cent and the Liberal Party and Country Party polled 40.91 per cent. 
It would be lucky. In 1969 the Australian Labor Party received 46.95 per cent and the Liberal Party-Country Party received 43.3 per cent. In each election the minority votes of the population of Australia elected the majority of members to the Parliament. The number of seats of the Liberal Party and Country Party went as high as seven more than those of tHe Australian Labor Party. In 1969 although Labor polled 3i per cent more of the vote than the combined Liberal Party-Country Party coalition that group had 7 seats more, even though it polled 3 per cent less. 
One vote one value, for the benefit of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is not a grossly misleading smokescreen. It is the basic concept of democracy. All in a democracy should have equality of power. It cannot be claimed that we have a true state of democracy if we deny the concept of equality of all of our citizens. All are equal in our view. The Opposition parties apparently believe that some are more equal than others. Those who deny this concept of equality should have the courage to admit their attitudes in public so that the Australian people may pass judgment on them at the first opportunity. 
Australia is becoming a nation riddled by political gerrymanders in certain States and the worst of these are in New South Wales and Queensland where there is blatant unashamed gerrymandering of electoral boundaries in order to not ensure democratic control but the continuation of Liberal Party-Country Party minority government. On the attitude of the Opposition to jockeying of electoral laws I noted the comment of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  who was reported in the Brisbane 'CourierMail' of 9 June of this year as having agreed that State governments had jockeyed electoral laws. I was pleased to read that he said that and I hope that when he speaks in this Parliament tonight he will support the concept of one vote one value. 
It is time in Australia for the community to lay down rules which set an example in political integrity. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has fixed his attitude on the principle of one vote one value and nobody in the Opposition dares to quibble with that principle. But honourable members opposite find excuses, obscure though they may be, to try to justify not applying it. There is no room in Australia for political elitism. We reject the concept that some should have more say than others. The Minister has introduced legislation to establish democratic principles.  His  has not been an attitude of idle talk. Legislation has been introduced by this Government to grant voting rights to the 18- year-olds. That is a large area of adults who have received the franchise. An electoral commission has been established to take the Electoral Office away from the possible pressure of party political influence. Now we seek to introduce the principle of basic integrity, that every citizen's vote should be counted equally - the principle of one vote one value. 
It is time that this Parliament considered some basic principles. The purpose of drawing electoral boundaries is to achieve a parliament representative of the majority of citizens; it is not designed to ensure a convenient and easy means for members of Parliament to ensure their re-election or an easy and convenient way for them to represent their constituents. This legislation goes only part of the way in the search for the principle of one vote one value. But it is a very significant step in that direction. It seeks to reduce the possible differential between the largest and smallest electorate from 40 per cent to 20 per cent. In other words it seeks to achieve not complete equality but reduction by half of the current disproportionate discrimination. Under the existing law it is possible to disfranchise 40 per cent of an electorate. It allows opportunity for blatant and shameless gerrymandering of the electorate and of the complexion of this Parliament. 
I am not suggesting that previous redistributions have been shameless gerrymanders, but I am suggesting that when this Parliament lays down guidelines for electoral redistribution commissioners they will feel at least some obligation to pay regard to these guidelines. What this Party, this Government, seeks to do is to give them a free and open book to do as much as is necessary to achieve equality of political power for all of our citizens. It is grossly unfair discrimination to give some electors more say than others, and the insidious part of it is that because people in similar income groups tend to live in the same sort of area, unequal representation leads inevitably to discrimination based on income. Such a situation is contrary to the principles and spirit of the Australian Constitution itself. 
All electors, irrespective of their income, religion or colour or place of residence are entitled to expect equality of power to decide who shall govern them and who shall make the laws which they are bound to obey. The present Act is designed to give some who live in rural electorates more say and a disproportionate voice in the selection of governments. The present situation is equivalent to denying some citizens the right to vote because virtually their vote is meaningless. This is achieved by giving the 75,000 electors in La 
Trobe the same voice as the 51,000 electors in Paterson. There is no possible justification for such a state of affairs. It means an effective one-third less say in this Parliament for those citizens who live in La Trobe than for those who live in Paterson. We see the emergence of a new privileged class because of this position. It has been an effort to establish what I might call a rural-ocracy in Australia. We must be astute to prevent and to remove the possibility of a cynical approach to the establishment of a permanent one-party rule. 
The thing which amazes me most about this argument is that although this Government is seeking to put beyond its own power the capacity to gerrymander its political opponents are fighting it all the way down the line. The use of personal information gained in the census, processed by modern computers without the legislative protection of one vote one value could lead to a most undemocratic situation. It could lead to the establishment of a society which would be a mockery of democracy. This Government is in a most unusual situation. It is not trying to prevent its political opponents from engaging in a gerrymander. It is attempting to place the capacity for boundary rigging beyond its own reach. It is fighting to give away its capacity to gain an unfair advantage. 
The Government is attempting to establish a fair basis for future democracy. In doing that its political opponents oppose it and complain that by giving every citizen an equal vote they will be in permanent Opposition. What an indictment. What a disgraceful state of affairs when members of this Parliament stand up before the  Speaker  and blatantly say: We think that there should be perpetuated in the laws of this country a system which will allow for a minority rule of the Australian people'. How can we expect the citizens of this country to accept and obey what might be unpopular laws at a particular time if they are made by a minority representative government? The democratic concept in our society is very fragile. It involves the principle of government by the consent of the governed. Government by the people, the rule of law and the equality of all citizens before the law are basic points and the very foundation on which democracy is built. Members opposite would destroy, perhaps unwittingly, this very basic concept. 
Inequality of voting power between citizens is a denial of liberty which cannot be accepted. Any denial of liberty in Australia is not acceptable nor can it be justified under any foreseeable circumstances. My view is that those who truly believe in democratic government will consider this Bill on the ground of principle, not in a narrow and cynical way concerned only with grabbing political power or with the obsession to maintain disproportionate representation. There is no basis in fact or having regard to history to suggest that this measure could result in a misapplication of proper principles in electoral distribution. In fact the opposite is the case. This proposal will merely give a clearer and more precise guide to the Electoral Commissioners if and when they are considering new electoral boundaries. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  cited the case of Wesberry v. Sanders in the United States Supreme Court. He has a very strange way of interpreting legal judgments. I think he must have read the wrong case because I have in my possession the report of this case. It is contained in volume 376 of the United States Law Reports at page 10 of which the following appears: 
The question of how the legislature should be constituted precipitated the most bitter controversy of the Convention. 
This was a reference to the United States Constitutional Convention of 1778. The report continues: 
One principle was uppermost in the minds of many delegates: That, no matter where he lived, each voter should have a voice equal to that of every other in electing members of Congress. In support of this principle, George Mason of Virginia 'argued strongly for an election of the larger branch by the people. It was to be the grand depository of the democratic principle of the Government. 
James Madison agreed, saying 'If the power is not immediately derived from the people, in proportion to their numbers, we may make a paper confederacy, but that will be all'. Repeatedly, delegates rose to make the same point: That it would be unfair, unjust, and contrary to common sense to give a small number of people as many Senators or Representatives as were allowed to much larger groups. 
Later in that judgment, to which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition referred but did not bother to quote for obvious reasons, the court, at page 17, said: 
Soon after the Constitution was adopted, James Wilson of Pennsylvania, by then an Associate Justice of this Court, gave a series of lectures at Philadelphia in which, drawing on his experience as oneof the most active members of the Constitutional Convention, he said: 
All elections ought to be equal. Elections are equal, when a given number of citizens, in one part of the state, chooses many representatives, as are chosen by the same number of citizens, in any other part of the state. In this manner the proportion of the representatives and of the constituents will remain invariably the same.' 
On page 18 of the report, quoting Madison, the judgment said: 
Who are to be the electors of the Federal Representatives? Not the rich more than the poor; not the learned more than the ignorant; not the haughty heirs of distinguished names, more than the humble sons of obscure andpropitious fortune. The electors are to be the great body of the people of the United States. 
The same principle holds true here. The Australian system of federal government closely follows the system of the United States and the same principles held to be valid there are valid in our great nation. Those who would destroy that principle are people who oppose the basic Australian concept and who are at variance with the Australian attitude. The Australian Constitution has been based on the principle that there shall be a minimum representation guaranteed for each State but that within each state there shall be equality of representation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to the tolerance needed for rapidly growing electorates, but he did not put what he really has in mind. What he is really up to and what he is really about is preserving representation for rapidly diminishing electorates; not giving credit for the rapidly increasing ones. The history of the Opposition in government proves that beyond all doubt. The dilution of the votes of some citizensor some class of citizens cannot be justified within the concepts of democratic government, and it will not be tolerated by this Government. If need be I have no doubt it will not be tolerated by the Australian people. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has served fair warning that if the Opposition wishes to frustrate the will of the people in this regard it can take its case to the highest court in this land and argue it out on the platform of public opinion the court of public opinion in the electorate. 
I hope the honourable member means that and is prepared, at the appropriate time, to stand up and say that he does not believe in one vote, one value. 
I say to my honourable friend that justice will be done. Nothing is surer. I remind the Leader of the Country Party that nothing is surer than when a vote is taken in this Parliament tonight a majority of members will stand on the side of true democracy - will stand for equality of rights for all Australian citizens. Before I conclude I refer to the case of Reynolds v. Sims which is reported in the United States Law Reports. The judgment in that case contains these words: 
Logically, in a society ostensibly grounded on representative government, it would seem reasonable that a majority of the people of a State could elect a majority of that State's legislators. To conclude differently, and to sanction  minority  control of state legislative bodies, would appear to deny majority rights in a way that far surpasses any possible denial of minority rights that might otherwise be thought to result. 
This legislation sets new rules. It can be regarded as setting new guidelines for the Australian political system. The Leader of the Country Party referred to certain State legislatures. I agree with him completely that it is a shameful disgrace to the Australian way of life that there should be such gerrymandering.The only consolation is that the parliaments concerned appear to be having less say and fewer constructive things to do. 
The last time it was suggested in this Parliament that the Labor Party had engaged in a gerrymander was in 1949. 'A gerrymander', cried members of the Opposition at that time. It was a gerrymander which saw the defeat of a Labor government, and the Liberal and Country Parties learned well from that mistake. In the last decade they introduced redistributions on 3 occasions to ensure them of government even though they received a minority of the votes. 
asked the Minister for Services  and Property, upon notice: 
How many persons between the ages of 18 and 20 years have enrolled on the electoral roll in each State to date. 
What methods have been adopted to publicise the need for these persons to enrol. 
How many persons aged between 18 and 20 years in each State and Territory are entitled to be enrolled. 
How many persons are (a) enrolled and (b) eligible to be enrolled in (i) Australia, (ii) each State and Territory, (iii) each electoral division and (iv) each subdivision of each electoral division. 
The capacity to enjoy life and to achieve human happiness must be the only legitimate test of any social order. When I listen to some of the speeches made by honourable members opposite I wonder whether that is even a cursory concern or a mild passing consideration of some of them. All too frequently they appear to be concerned and believe that we should be overly concerned only with the figures on a balance sheet, with the amounts of money shown on both sides of the ledger. Do they really look intelligently at what life is all about? On this side of the House we are more concerned with the rights of human beings, their capacity to enjoy life and their ability to take their place in society. 
In the time of the last generation medical costs have zoomed. They have become far too high in the community with every prospect that they will go higher. There is a direct relationship between the life style that has been developed over the last 20 years or so and increases in medical costs. Sometimes these expenses are referred to as health costs or the cost of health in our community. In fact they are the costs of poor health, the costs of trying to correct illnesses rather than the cost of achieving good health. A study undertaken recently by a task force in the United States of America for the Department of Health, Education and Welfare has found that coronary disease is directly attributable to the work style and mode of living. Yet we did not hear a word in 23 years of LiberalCountry Party rule about that link. We have not seen a single scrap of evidence of any attempt made to attack the problem. 
There is a direct relationship between work dissatisfaction and heart disease. We have heard nothing of employee frustration and the frustration of citizens, together with the almost frightening increase in the incidence of heart disease in the community. Leisure time is becoming more important and will become even more important. We have achieved increased leisure time and will achieve even more, therefore putting more pressure on the productive capacity of employees and on the community to produce more goods and services. I believe that in this setting the work done by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  so far and the outline of the program that he has put before this House have not received due recognition. 
Holidays and travel are very commendable if the population can afford to enjoy them. It is not of much use saying to a worker who works at pressure all the year: 'You may have three or four weeks annual vacation but you cannot enjoy it. You must continue in your second job. You cannot (take your family away to a new environment during that period because your wife cannot get her holidays at the same time'. That is the type of society which was developed by honourable members opposite who have attacked the Budget that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  brought into this House a week ago. They brought about an economic system which demands that a family unit have at least 2 incomes. If there are not 2 incomes, the choice is between the principal bread winner having a second job or subjecting his children to privation. 
Those are the plain facts. This new progressive and far-sighted government is being attacked after about 8 months in office for not having cured all the ills created during 23 years of Liberal-Country Party laissez faire government. I wonder whether the term 'government' is deserved by those people who occupied the majority seats in this House for so long. It was misgovernment. lt was leadership by the leaderless. The present Government is concerned about recreation at all levels and about satisfying all needs. Its concern, as has been illustrated in the Budget, is to provide the means to organise methods of recreation for our much maligned youth who will serve this country well in the years to come. We are concerned to provide for them sporting facilities and the means by which their art and craft may be developed. 
This Government is also concerned to provide recreation for the adult population which is presently working to produce the goods and services required by the whole community. I remind honourable members opposite that but for the people who work by the sweat of their brow, who use their hands and brains in production, there would be no goods and services the distribution of which is argued about. The problem must be looked at in its totality, at the partnership in enterprise of employee, professional management and investor. It must be recognised that each section needs rest and recreation from the particular labour that it undertakes. This Government will attempt to provide the necessary facilities. It has already shown how it will set about that task. 
What of the aged in our community who have built this society, who have provided the goods and services in the past? In the past 20 years they have been told: 'We will pay you a pittance which we call a pension. That is all we will do for you. Our concern for you is to give you enough to keep you in a state of existence and then we will forget about you.' The Labor Government is determined to make life livable for the people who have built this nation. It will provide the means for them to have recreation and to perform selfsatisfying tasks in the community. It is not simply a question of finding grounds and buildings in which to house the facilities. It is a matter of providing the organisation and the management  to allow these things to be developed. 
Much has to be done in the work place. For far too long it has been regarded as the preserve of management, trade unions and investors to slug it out on the floor of the work place and to find a solution the best way they can. Concepts of job enrichment, employee participation, sharing of responsibility and profitability in industry have merely been words to the government of the last generation. That has come to an abrupt end. Australia now has a Government that cares - a government that is concerned about people. I was interested to hear the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  state earlier tonight that electoral reform will be introduced into this Parliament and that there will be concern to ensure that there is one vote one value. When this is achieved, during the life of this Parliament, perhaps we will see a bi-partisan approach to the concept that the majority should elect the Government and that the Government should govern in the interests of the total population and not just minority sectional interests. The one thing that highlights and distinguishes the Whitlam Government from its predecessor is that it is a Government that is concerned with all of the people whether they be one-year old babies or 98-year old pensioners. 
I would like to commence by congratulating the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on his Budget not only because it is sound and progressive but also because of its recognition of and confidence in Australia and Australians. The Treasurer has displayed a measure of courage and determination to achieve social justice as well as fiscal responsibility.  His  efforts deserve the sympathetic support of all. 
Honourable members interjecting - 
The attack which has been launched and which is carried on now in a completely undignified way, in a manner which gives little credit to honourable members opposite represents a premature condemnation which has had no other significant effect than to cause some uncertainty and some confusion in the economy itself. Certainly no one could accuse the Opposition of having made any constructive suggestions that the Government might consider in respect of the question of inflation. (Quorum formed.) The attack made by the Opposition on the Budget has been negative in approach and petty in its scope. Of course inflation is a matter of serious concern. The Treasurer has made it clear that he acknowledges this fact and is anxious to attack it not by mouthing platitudes, giving forth with the vocabulary of the jackass and the cockatoo, but rather in sensible economic terms. It would be well for the education of some of the honourable members opposite if they had stopped talking for a while and had listened when the Treasurer was explaining the policy of the Government in this regard. 
The causes of inflation are varied and the solutions are complex. The Opposition would have far more credibility if it acknowledged that the causes of inflation flow mainly from international factors. Part of the problem rests with prices exploitation - with the concept that a price is justified as long as the consumer is prepared or can be forced to pay. When the Opposition was in government it did nothing to protect the consumer against price exploitation. It encouraged monopoly and closed its eyes to unjustified and artificially high prices. It did nothing about resale price maintenance until it was forced to do so. It condemned those outside the Parliament who forced it to take appropriate action. The present Opposition claimed during its long period of office to be advocates of and adherents to the free enterprise system. But it allowed our industries to engage in practices which were far removed from free and open enterprise. It promised the Australian people effective laws against restrictive trade practices but the legislation it introduced was practically useless and had extremely limited effect. It practised the philosophy of liberal laissez-faire economics. The result is that today we pay the penalty. 
The Opposition in this Parliament has been reckless and irresponsible in the way that it has attacked this Budget. Instead of putting the public interest above petty Party politics it has done the opposite. The Opposition has ignored the basic central facts. It has chosen to ignore the massive increase in funds made available for education. This Government has provided an extra $404m this year for education, which represents an increase of 92 per cent oyer the amount spent on education last year. Whilst the Liberal-Country Party Opposition, consistent with its outdated philosophy, regards this as a cost burden the Government regards it as a vital investment. Our philosophy is that money spent on education has a twofold benefit. Firstly, it will result in a better educated population which is able to produce more goods and services thereby increasing our total national wealth. Secondly, it equips people to cope with society, allows them to appreciate the better things of life and helps to develop more human happiness. I ask the rhetorical question: How can one measure in terms of financial cost the benefits which flow from the result of additional funds being used on the training of handicapped persons - people who were neglected and ignored by the coldhearted government of recent years, people whose lives were left alone to be looked after as best they could themselves in their handicapped state? Governments have a responsibility to develop human skills for a better life. Gross national product is not an end in itself; it is a means to an end and a method of achieving a better life. The Government recognises these basic central facts. 
The fact that education and training have been neglected for so long is the cause of some of the problems inherited by this Government from its predecessors. In many industries today the shortage of skilled labour required to produce the goods and services desired by the Australian people is creating the inadequacy of supply which is an important element in rising costs and prices. This Government has already released additional funds which will have a significant effect in this regard. It will take some time before the beneficial effects of this action are felt, but they will be seen in the near future. Recently the Liberal Party Minister for Education in New South Wales accused building construction employers of contributing to the shortage of skilled tradesmen by their reluctance to employ sufficient apprentices in the industry. He advocated financial incentives to encourage the employment and training of more apprentices. He did nothing, but advocated that course. For many years it has been obvious that this serious and acute shortage of skilled tradesmen would occur. Everybody, apart from the previous Government, could see it arising as a direct result of the introduction on a widespread basis of the sub-contracting system in the building construction industry. The Liberal-Country Party coalition did absolutely nothing either to encourage or require an adequate training method or the establishment of appropriate facilities. 
One of the first steps taken by the present Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  in the Whitlam Government was to introduce certain conditions concerning government building contracts. One of those conditions was: 
In allocating contracts consideration shall be given to- Cd) the quota of apprentices the contractor by established awards is entitled to employ and the number employed 
Did the Liberal and Country Party Opposition seek to encourage the Minister and the Government in their efforts to overcome what is a critical need in our society? Did it adopt a broad national outlook about the need to train more of our youth in the skills required to produce more housing for the Australian people? Certainly it did not. It launched a censure motion on the Government. I am happy to have been here to participate in the debate on that ill-conceived and petty motion and to have seen it completely rejected by this House. Honourable members opposite complain now about the result of their own ineptitude. 
Those who suffer as a result of these failures are the homeless and the young married couples who face rapidly increased housing costs as a result of shortage and maximisation of profits by the building constructors. Honourable members opposite attack the Government on the one hand for spending too much and on the other for spending too little. They have criticised the fact that the Government has decided to keep expenditure on defence within reasonable limits and to spend what is consistent with our actual rather than our imagined needs. The way to reduce Government expenditure is left for Australian citizens to ponder. We reject any suggestion that less could be spent on social welfare. Those who rely on pensions and social welfare payments would not survive if their payments were reduced or were not increased with increased living costs. The fact is that those who are in this unfortunate position are in urgent need of the increased rates contained in this Budget. 
The first step has also been taken in this Budget to abolish the socially iniquitous means test. The amount allocated for cultural recreation is an investment in good health. Money spent in this direction will be saved in the reduced need to provide medical services in the future. It follows, in my view, that it would be difficult significantly to reduce spending in this Budget without creating social injustice. This Government is not prepared to adopt the inverted role of Robin Hood, as some members of the Opposition would if they had the chance - that is, to rob the poor to pay the rich. This Government stands for equality in all fields. 
One aspect of increased living costs which is causing deep concern in my electorate is the very serious and savage increase in water rates which has occurred in certain suburbs of Sydney. This unreasonable increase has been imposed because of the inflation of property values in the Coogee-Randwick area and the insistence of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board to adjust the rate. Ratepayers in this area are being forced to pay almost double the rates they paid last year. Some are required to pay more. These are not the occupiers of large and luxurious homes. I am speaking on behalf of residents who live in small houses and home units. Many of these people are simply unable to meet the higher charges and are being forced to leave the area where they have spent their lives. Some are being forced to abandon the environment of their choice, to leave their homes and to move many miles away in their evening years and either make new friends or perhaps spend their fast years in loneliness. 
The New South Wales Government has shown a callous and cynical lack of interest in the plight of these people. The method of rating is grossly unfair and the system of determining valuation is most inequitable. It is a deceitful method of imposing an unreasonable tax in an unacceptable manner. The cost of sewerage treatment has for many years required serious review. In my electorate we have some of the best beaches in the world, but this great natural resource is becoming polluted because of inadequate sewerage treatment. 
In the city of San Francisco a different approach has been made to the problem. The local authority is required to provide only 20 per cent of the cost of providing the facilities for sewerage treatment. The other 80 per cent of the cost is met equally between the State and Federal governments. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has recently announced that a sum of $30m is to be made available for sewerage work. Of this amount $ 11.2m is to be made available to New South Wales. He has made it clear that part of this money is to 'be used for sewerage treatment. At least we can look forward to cleaner beaches, particularly in the summer months when they are used most and the prevailing breeze and tides play havoc with the effluent by sweeping it into the swimming areas. 
The other very significant feature of this allocation is the term of the loan. Instead of the current local government interest rates and repayments over periods to the order of IS years, it will be spread over a period of 30 years. The Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board presently spends half its income on loan and interest repayments. This new approach by the Australian Government should significantly assist authorities concerned with the provision of sewerage. It is interesting to compare the different and discriminatory treatment of the people who live in Sydney. In the rural areas of New South Wales SO per cent of the cost of sewerage is met by the State Government itself. This is in sharp contrast to the method of financing the sewerage works in the city. 
On the broad question of rising prices, members of the Opposition have displayed a peculiar attitude. Although during the whole period of their reign in government inflation was a problem, they have only found any possible solution since they were swept into Opposition. The plain fact is that the present level of inflation is due in no small part to economic dissipation and the political idleness of previous governments. Members of the Opposition are still stumbling along in the darkness of economic absurdity just as they did when in government. They now put forward very simplistic solutions to complex economic problems. Their suggestion now is to have a freeze. The people who were unemployed in the reign of the last Government certainly had a freeze and they will not forget it. For years honourable members opposite have argued that to control prices was ineffective and would create artificial shortages of goods and services. Now they claim to be in favour of a freeze of prices. How such a freeze would be successful in Australia when similar steps have failed in other countries is left unanswered. The question of this Parliament's having no power or authority to impose such a freeze is also ignored in their scramble and desperate attempts to gain some political favour in the electorate. In the scramble they are being shown to be dismally unsuccessful. 
Members of the Opposition claim to favour an incomes-prices policy. Again they show their ineptitude by being unable to do more than recite the slogan. No detail is given about how such price and wage control is to 'be administered or what safeguards are to be contained in order to prevent inequities. The assumption is that the status quo is reasonable. Let me say again that there is no case on record in Australia of wages being increased in anticipation of a price increase. Wage increases have always followed an increase in prices. The opposite has never been the case. The main areas of price inflation are to be found in food and housing. There is no significant cost factor in the price spiral in either of these items. 
Land prices have skyrocketed without any cost push element. It is a classic example of exploitation and profiteering. Similarly, uncontrolled rents have created real hardship for many. Again it can be shown that the price is determined exclusively on what the tenant will pay or can be forced to pay. Food prices are being determined solely by the level of demand both in Australia and overseas. Meat prices have skyrocketed under the influence of overseas demand. Food and shelter are items which are essential to life and expenditure on them cannot be avoided. It is difficult to preach the philosophy of consumer restraint when we are discussing the first and basic level of needs. Food and shelter are the essentials of life. The continued spiral in prices for these items is causing serious difficulties in the work place. As costs and prices rise, so the demand for higher wages follows. It is a selfperpetuating cycle. 
Many industries are seething with discontent as workers have the feeling that they are not earning sufficient to maintoin an acceptable level of purchasing power. Increased prices in respect of items which are not related to cost increases have the effect of forcing up costs in industries where the goods and services produced have prices which are related to costs. A simple example is when a worker cannot buy meat on the wages that he is receiving, he makes a demand on the industry for higher wages which in effect pushes up costs in that industry. It is useless suggesting the type of incomes-prices policy which failed in Britain, 
Canada and the United States, but our geniuses of the Opposition who failed in government and are now stumbling along in Opposition cannot come up with a solution except to mouth slogans which are meaningless. What is required at present is to reverse the cycle of wages and prices movement. What we need today is more stability. 
The honourable member will see in the next couple of days some very positive steps to do something about it. The honourable member might surprise this side of the House by adopting an unpredictable attitude and doing something constructive. This Government has not been inactive. It has been very active in attacking inflation. The Prices Justification Tribunal has been established as has the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. Tariffs have been reduced and the currency has been revalued. All these steps have been taken and it will take some time before their effects are felt. But they will have an effect on prices to the benefit of the economy and the Australian people. Price control and an extension of income regulation are inevitable. However, that is not a wages-prices policy as mouthed by the Opposition. Truth has a power of its own. It cannot be suppressed. It will win out in the end. The ingenuity for masquerade shown by the Opposition will not mislead the Australian people. 
I support the amendment, perhaps for slightly different reasons from those of other honourable members who have supported it this morning. However, before speaking to it I wish to refer to one or two statements made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  To my mind he is in a state of confusion. He claims that about 200,000 children are unplanned and unwanted each year. There is a vast distinguishable difference between those who may be unplanned and those few who may remain unwanted. Very few children are born in the community who remain unwanted for very long. Even in those cases where they are unwanted by their mothers, thousands of others want those children. They are prepared to give them love and understanding, to take them into their homes and to treat them as their own. I reject completely the false, confused and illogical assertion that about 200,000 Unplanned and unwanted children are born each year. That statement is simply incorrect and is beyond proof. 
I turn now to the suggestion made by the honourable member for Hotham about my friend and colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  He was accused of wishing to attach his personal principles to others: In this Parliament we accept a responsibility on election to make laws governing community standards. It is not a question of whether one seeks to impose one's own moral views on others. It is a matter of how one sees ethical and moral issues and the need for laws governing individual conduct within the community. Certainly there will be differences in attitudes but because there is a difference in ethical and moral values one does not deserve the jibe that one is attempting to impose his perhaps different views on the rest of the community. 
I am opposed to the concept contained in the original motion that the inquiry could appropriately be conducted by a single Federal judge. I have opposed in the past the concept that all wisdom is deposited in the minds of the judiciary. Indeed, if one reads the case history of this country and elsewhere one could gain the impression that that is not at all the case and that those who argue that legal practitioners have sole responsibility for the reservoir of independence, integrity and impartiality are doomed to serious disappointment. I believe that this is a very important inquiry, one of the most important ever to be set up in this country, and certainly so in modern times. When the inquiry is established, as it surely will be, it ought to be conducted by people who are expert in the field. 
It has been said this morning that we do not want moral judgments but facts. Let me remind the honourable gentleman who said it that moral values frequently determine how facts are seen, and more often and more importantly, they determine whether facts are recognised. I prefer an inquiry by qualified commissioners in the way suggested by the amendment. Many people who sit near me find a great deal of merit in the suggestion put forward by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  At the moment we have 2 proposals before the House. The first is the motion and the second the amendment. When considering the proposed inquiry honourable members ought to keep clearly in mind that we are concerned with abortion and its consequences. The unborn child is part of the least privileged group in our society. These children have life but no voice. They are completely dependant upon others for the preservation of their lives. The right to life is the main basic civil right in our society. In my view it is axiomatic that life must be protected. 
Every year we spend enormous sums of money in order to ensure that our fellow citizens have sufficient to eat, that disease is treated and eradicated and that the injured are given appropriate attention. This is done to ensure that life is protected and preserved. The same moral issue arises in respect of unborn children. I wish to make it clear to honourable members that I am opposed to the termination of life in any respect except in extraordinary circumstances. The proposed inquiry is of vital importance and I believe that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  is not to be condemned for moving this motion but congratulated for bringing this issue forward. I disagree with his proposal and I violently disagree with the proposal put forward last May for the so-called abortion law reform which would have justified and legalised abortion on demand. I absolutely opposed, and still do oppose, that proposition. One thing for which I am grateful is that by bringing this issue forward it has sparked a debate and has sparked controversy. It has brought to public attention the difficulties that many people are faced with which might otherwise have been overlooked. 
The issue for this Parliament is what form the inquiry should take and what its terms of reference should be. I believe that there is little or no opposition to the fact that there should be an inquiry but the terms of reference will determine the direction of the inquiry. One of the basic questions will be whether abortion should be made easier or whether active steps should be taken to remove those factors which drive some women into what they see as economic and social compulsion to have an abortion. Those who strongly oppose abortion, as I do, have a particularly heavy responsibility in this regard. Abortion is not always the result of a selfish attitude. There are enormous psychological and economic factors which weigh heavily on those who find themselves pregnant outside the security of marriage. Many young women have been driven to abortion because of the narrow, selfish and petty attitudes of others in our society. 
Pregnancy is not a crime and no woman should be cast aside because she is pregnant, irrespective of her marital state. Unmarried expectant mothers need and deserve kindness, sympathy and understanding. Those who subject them to ridicule, contempt or social rejection are guilty of a serious social offence. The inquiry should give serious consideration to the complete elimination of discrimination against persons who are cruelly and callously classified as illegitimate. It should also be concerned to ensure that there is appropriate economic protection for pregnant women. Women, single or married, should be in receipt of maternity leave - an issue on which this Parliament was slow in acting in past years. There also should be provision for adequate family allowances, particularly the provision of appropriate child minding centres. 
We should be concerned with the United Nations declaration on the rights of a child, which is set out in the amendment, and which states: 
. that the child, by reason of his physical and mental immaturity, needs special safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection, before as well as after birth, . . . 
I refer honourable members to paragraph (d) of the amendment. This is a comprehensive set of issues which have to be considered. Paragraph (d) refers to the question of housing and whether some particular assistance ought to be given to families; the question of the ability of the parent, whether single or married, to provide shelter for the child; the question of child minding facilities to which I have already referred; to pre-school facilities; the question of disabilities of families with handicapped children and the means of assisting them; and the question of domestic assistance for families and working mothers. 
Working mothers in this community are not receiving much assistance at the moment. At present, a working woman confronted with pregnancy is often placed in the position where she stands to lose considerable sums of money by way of lost long service leave payments simply because she fails to qualify by a few months. If there were adequate provision for maternity leave and accrued rights in this regard it would assist the working mother. This is one factor, although perhaps it is not a major factor. There is also the question of part-time employment - tandem style employment. There are enormous practical difficulties associated with such employment but they are issues which need to be attacked and for which solutions need to be found. We also should keep clearly in mind that there is a great deal of hypocrisy on this subject. For the past year in Sydney - and at this moment - widespread illegal abortions have been taking place. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  He put it far more clearly than Icould do. It is a racket which should be exposed. Those people who parade about saying that they are opposed to abortion but do nothing about it are, to my mind, hypocrites. We cannot close our eyes to facts. What we must do is to examine the causes of abortion and try to remove those causes rather than condemn those who perhaps have fallen into the error of subjecting themselves to abortion. I have no time for those people who simply oppose abortion and do nothing to make the social reforms necessary to eliminate or reduce its incidence. 
The original proposal in my view, is far too restrictive and I think that the amendment before the House gives wider scope for the inquiry. I do not accept the criticism that because the amendment leaves out sex education and puts the emphasis on education in its totality, there is something remiss in it. I believe that it widens the scope and, after all, we ought to be concerned with total education in this particular field. Abortion and its causes are not simply because of lack of sex education. Indeed in many cases it is because of the lack of a total and proper well-balanced education. I support the amendment because it is broader in concept than the original motion. I believe it provides for a wider inquiry and a better equipped inquiry. I ask the House to adopt the amendment in preference to the original motion. 
Motion (by  Mr Berinson)  put: 
That the question be put. 
The Opposition this afternoon has made it clear beyond any doubt that it is truly here as the captive and the puppet of big business. The voice of its members is not a voice which has expressed a concern for the Australian people. They have not been concerned about the price exploitation which is occurring. Rather have they been concerned to protect profit maximisation. Country Party members in this Parliament speak against any form of price control as being iniquitous. Yet we know that for years Country Party members have supported and acknowledged that prices on a wide range of primary products have been fixed. For example, the prices for sugar, milk, butter, cheese, flour, bread and eggs have all been fixed, and controlled prices still apply. Country Party members say that to fix prices is wrong and that such action will result in all sorts of economic difficulties. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has based a great deal of his opposition on the fact, as he has alleged, that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was rolled by Caucus, to use his unique phrase. That statement is just incorrect. The Leader of the Opposition has been misinformed. He has a most unreliable informant. He should check his facts more carefully. The Prime Minister did not argue against a prices referendum. The basic fact stated by the Leader of the Opposition is not correct. The Prime Minister made it clear in his second reading speech that, if the Australian Parliament, is given the power and authority to regulate and to control prices, his Government will use such powers responsibly and selectively as one of the elements in an anti-inflationary strategy. The strategy proposed by the Opposition it not easy to understand and to comprehend. It certainly is easier to understand than is the same policy that we have heard for 20 years proclaimed by big business interests in this country and elsewhere. They propose an incomes-prices freeze. It is not clear how such a freeze would be enforced, particularly as this Parliament has no power to adopt such a course and the Opposition opposes the Parliament acquiring such power. 
The Government is committed to the maximum utilisation of the nation's resources so that all of its people can enjoy a higher standard of living and a better life style. The Australian Labor Party has constantly rejected the mechanism of creating a pool of unemployed as a means of achieving stabilised prices. Such an approach in our view is socially unacceptable. The concept that certain groups can be called upon to be the sacrificial lambs in the name of economic stability is repugnant to decent social ethics. Those who suffer under the unemployment pool concept are the migrants and the low income earners. The concept of deliberately creating unemployment as an economic weapon is as callous and as cynical as one can imagine. It ignores basic human values. An unemployment pool may not be a freeze but it is certainly pretty cool for those who find themselves in it. 
The Liberals have shown in the past that their basic weapon against inflation is to create these pools of unemployment. By a series of actions, they managed to achieve an economic recession and galloping price inflation at the same time - a rare economic achievement. Their prices-incomes policy which they practised regularly in non-election years was to eliminate the income of some and to allow prices to find their own level. If they get their way again, they will do exactly the same thing. With added power, they may make it worse. 
What this Government seeks to do is to acquire the capacity to regulate prices. The Opposition adopts the false premise that wages and salaries are the prime cause of price increases. This is ludicrous and quite incorrect. This premise has been rejected by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on several occasions. The prices which are currently affecting the consumer price index and which reflect the level of price increases are overwhelmingly related to commodities which are not significantly affected by wage and salary increases. The prices of meat and potatoes have been determined almost exclusively by supply-demand considerations and not by wages. The price of land in our capital cities has spiralled without justification. The Australian Parliament is the only democratic body in the industrially developed world which does not have power to regulate prices. This is a situation which is inconsistent with the will of the Australian people. The Australian people wish this Parliament to have this power. This Bill is designed to allow them to express their view and to make the decision. The Opposition seeks to prevent the people from having a say on this matter. 
Of course, it is significant that the Opposition is opposed not only to the referendum seeking to grant that power but also to the measure which will allow the Australian people to vote on this important question. The interests of consumers are not being protected in the current economy. The Australian people are clearly being exploited. Basic foods are rapidly becoming a luxury for many low income families. The aged, sick and infirm who rely on social welfare payments are being denied the right to eat the food of their choice. They are being forced to change their diet habits in order that a few may grow rich. Young married couples are being forced to wait longer for a home because of the land price spiral. Some may well never get a home. Land prices in Sydney have reached a scandalous stage. Those who have locked up large areas of land for speculative purposes are sucking the economic lifeblood out of many young Australians. Nobody can claim that housing is a luxury. It is a basic necessity of life. 
Those who see the cure for all of our economic ills in an incomes-prices freeze are badly informed. Those who believe that there is a special magic in a policy of incomesprices policy should make a definitive statement about what they mean, and how they propose to introduce such a freeze. The socalled freeze argument assumes that all wages and prices are currently in their correct juxtaposition within the total economic structure. This assertion is simply untrue. The prices of land and many food items are artificially high. Wages have been adjusted regularly by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission after prices have risen. Action has been taken by the unions to restore the purchasing power of wages and salaries. There has not been a case in which it can be shown legitimately that wages have been fixed in anticipation of a price rise. At the present time, wages and salaries together with social service payments are being squeezed by increased living costs. Whilst wages are controlled through the arbitration tribunals in all of the States, a fact conveniently overlooked by the Opposition, there is- 
Oh! My friend from North Sydney wants to talk about minimum wages. In very many cases, as I will show him in a moment, the minimum wage is in fact the maximum wage even though the law provides that it is the minimum wage. I can come to that and show the honourable member that in just a minute. Whilst these wages are clearly controlled in all the Australian States by arbitration tribunals and whilst they are controlled here by the Australian Arbitration Commission, there is no regulation of essential goods and services and their prices. The so-called freeze also ignores the fact that wages for particular industries are fixed at different times. A freeze imposed tonight would mean that those who received increases today would have an artificial advantage over those who are due to receive an increase tomorrow. This is what occurred in the United States of America. 
Let me take the honourable member for North Sydney to the point that he made concerning the question of a minimum wage and a maximum wage. The arbitration tribunals of this country recognise that the minimum rates set in some industries are the maximum rates. That is why the arbitration tribunals in fixing wage rates, having regard to comparative wage rates, differentiate between what they call minimum rates awards and actual rates awards. The differentiation is clear. In fact, in my view the great majority of incomes are controlled now. Those who receive wages and salaries are controlled in some form or another. A most significant section of our work force is currently receiving a minimum or basic award wage only. Let me tell honourable members who they are. Twenty per cent of all wage and salary earners are to be found in public employment of one form or another. Those employed by the Australian Government, the State governments, the statutory authorities, and the local government bodies represent 20 per cent of all those employed in this country. Those employed outside the huge metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne have either significantly lower over award payments or no over award payments at all. They represent 56 per cent of the Australian work force. 
So we can see clearly that more than half of those in the Australian work force in fact have their wages controlled by awards of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Let us consider those who receive over award payments. How do they get them? Do they simply say. 'We are going to take same more money; we have put up the price of our labour'? Of course they do not. They have to bargain with an employer who has to agree, otherwise they do not receive such a payment Once prices are subject to regulation, there obviously will be a reluctance by employers to agree to over award payments because they will realise that they cannot simply pass on the increased cost to the consumer. So honourable members can see that by the mere introduction of prices regulation machinery there will be an immediate effect on wages. Obviously, there will be a return to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the fixation of the total wages paid. The Commission will be better equipped in the light of the experience of the last decade to fix wages and salaries on a fair and equitable basis. 
The so-called freeze ignores what is to happen to benefits of increased productivity. Presumably, during the period of the freeze, all of this would go into the pockets of the investor and none into the pockets of the employees. Once prices are subject to regulation there will at least be a chance of controlling the price-wage increase cycle. The average worker derives nothing from the exercise of gaining a wage increase which is followed immediately by a price increase, followed by a further wage increase, another price increase and so on. In fact, many workers finish up worse off as a result of this circular exercise. The exercise has gained little or nothing for the average Australian worker. The fact that prices have been allowed to set the pace has created great hardship for those who rely on welfare payments and fixed incomes. 
There is another area of financial reward which has been ignored by the Opposition, and quite predictably so. Many of the senior executives of our industries have enormous fringe benefits which have a very significant monetary value. These usually are not subject to taxation. They are available only to the privileged few who earn high salaries. I refer to the charging of rents below par for company owned houses in which they live; generous expense accounts which are made available; extravagant superannuation schemes which are for the privileged few; the business trips to Honolulu and elsewhere on which the family is taken along and which consists of one 10-minute interview - the total cost is on the house; the payment of school fees for children under company executive scholarship schemes; and the provision of motor cars and the payment of running costs. All of these benefits are taken out of the profit of the companies and are not taxable. 
Do those benefits come under the Opposition's freeze? Will they be allowed to breeze along on these extravagant benefits while the low wage worker finds it hard to buy a pound of sausages? That is the sort of thing we meant when we said that meat is getting too dear for the average worker. What do members of the Opposition say? They say: 'Let them eat fish'. They are the modern-day Marie Antoinettes. There has been no suggestion as to how those benefits are to be controlled or regulated. The control of prices will of itself, of course, control some incomes. The Opposition has proved by its past policies that it is the architect of disaster. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  seeks to place the blame for inflation on its chief victims. He asks the Australian people to place the blame for high prices on those who cannot afford to pay them. The argument of the Opposition must be amongst the most contradictory in parliamentary history. For 23 years members of the Opposition, when in government, argued against any form of economic control. Having gained the economic advantage for the investor they now seek to argue about a freeze. 
This is a time when profits are at a record level. Let me briefly refer to the alleged gap between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. This, of course, is absolute rubbish - pure speculation. The  President  of the ACTU was reported this morning as having said that he did not make a promise and was not going to hand over a promise that wage increases would not be sought. Obviously, no representative of the trade union movement would buy a pig in a poke. No responsible leader can give a blank cheque. What he said was that once price control was introduced we would be 'in a different ball park'. The report goes on to state: 
Following the introduction of price control we would have a different position and would co-operate with the Government for maximum possible growth', he said. 
That is what  Mr Hawke  said and, of course, that has been ignored. The proposal which is before this House is for the Australian people to have a say. Price control is worth a fair trial and I believe that the very existence of power to control prices could well dampen down the rate of price increases. There is only one issue before this House arising from this Bill: Should the Australian people have a voice? Should they be allowed to say whether or not this Parliament should have the power to control prices? I support the Bill and commend it to honourable members. 
One thing that ought to be stated at the outset is that the Joint Select Committee on Prices has tabled a report and that only the members of the Committee, with one or two possible exceptions I fear, have had access to the report. They are the privileged few who have had the opportunity of reading it. So it is quite fallacious to say that the Government has made any decision at all in respect of this matter. But such is the desperation of some honourable members opposite, who remind me of a cockies' choir singing a lament, that they are prepared to lash out at the Government in respect of this proposal. AH matters which have been raised today were discussed by the Committee and it would be as well to look at some of those. But the opposition to this Committee's report is another example of the philosophy of members of the Opposition as the advocates of price maximisation. Their philosophy seems to be, that as far as certain producers and manufacturers are concerned, they should be allowed to charge what they like, to get what they can and to ignore the interests of other sections of the community. Their attitude in this Parliament is one of narrow, selfish self-interest, and let the consumer be damned. 
What the Committee says is that there should be justice and equity in this question. I believe that prices should be fixed on the basis of what is fair and equitable, not on the basis of what can be bludgeoned out of the consumer. We have heard an argument here today which makes the assumption that meat is a luxury to be taken or not taken as whim would demand. Apparently those on the Opposition side, particularly members of the Australian Country Party, think that meat should be for the consumption of the wealthy few and the rest of us can live on mince meat or some alternative. That view is unacceptable and it was unacceptable to the members of the Committee. We have not at any stage rejected the concept of a price stabilisation scheme or an incomes stabilisation scheme. Indeed as I sat here this afternoon and listened to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  I thought that he had a very poor memory. The honourable member said that the Committee had nothing to say about what should occur if prices should crash. What would then happen to the poor producer? During the course of the Committee's deliberations I attempted to have an intelligent conversation with the honourable gentleman. 
It was rather difficult but I attempted to encourage him to put forward  h  scheme which would guarantee a minimum income for producers. I am one of those who have always advocated strongly minimum incomes for everyone in our community. But the honourable gentleman does not want that because he is being too greedy on behalf of the beef barons that he represents in this place, the big man, the absentee producer, the absentee farmer, the man in Pitt Street, the man who if his income from meat falls will have to put up the price of his medical consultation. 
The right honourable gentleman has the gall- 
In view of your warning,  Mr Speaker,  I will not answer that quite infantile interjection. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  claimed that meat prices had risen from a low base but no faster, in his view, than average weekly earnings. That statement, coming from a very senior responsible member of the Opposition, is indeed to be considered carefully. The right honourable member surely must know that he is putting forward the most circular argument that is possible. In other words, if prices are to move in accordance with increases in average weekly earnings and wages are to move in accordance with increased prices we will have a situation where escalation will be continuous and there will be simply no end to the process. That argument has come from people who criticise this Government over price inflation. Their hypocrisy is exposed clearly and beyond any room for argument. The simple fact is that under their philosophy, as we have seen in the past, the poor get poorer and those who have the capacity to own the means of production, whether it be in relation to primary or secondary industries, get fatter and richer at the expense of the poor. 
The right honourable gentleman accused the members of the Committee who brought in the majority report of attempting to turn producers into a peasant class. If that has been put seriously, then we are about to create history because it will be the only time in the history of mankind that there has been a peasant class driving around in Cadillacs and Mercedes. The right honourable gentleman said that the industry does not fix its own prices, that the industry is subject to supplydemand fluctuations. That is all very well, except that the industry has a captive market. We have to eat. There is no way out of that. To suggest that the producer is in some unfavourable position is sheer nonsense. The right honourable gentleman attempted to ridicule and to rubbish the report of this Committee. He conveniently neglected to mention that the Government of Canada was forced to take action by placing an embargo on the amount of meat which that country exported last year and it refused to allow any additional exports for the current year. The Opposition ignores the decision of New Zealand to put a complete ban on the export of mutton. What has been the New Zealand experience? Have we seen any mass exodus from the farming community? Have producers been forced into the peasant class? Have they gone bankrupt or gone broke? Of course they have not. What the right honourable gentleman and honourable members opposite have been saying is sheer and utter nonsense.. 
When the United States Government was confronted with a similar situation it was forced to impose price control, to freeze prices, a step which honourable members opposite only in the last couple of days were advocating in this House. So today we see the hypocrisy of their argument completely exposed. Two days ago they were saying we should freeze all prices. Today they say: 'Do not touch the price of meat because you will cause a disaster'. What utter humbug we have to listen to. That is something that was put forward on the basis of sincerity. It is completely wrong to suggest that this Committee has made an attack on the producer of beef. During the whole of the deliberations of this Committee we were constantly kept informed and during the evidence we were constantly prodded by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  who was very keen indeed that the Committee should be completely, concerned to ensure that the primary producer did not suffer the fate which is being predicted by the prophets of doom who sit opposite. 
Let us face this fact, and honourable members opposite have ignored it: There has been a major escalation in the price of meat. Do honourable members opposite seriously say that if prices went back to the level they were in December last or in June of last year the producer would be subject to a life of misery and privation, that he would be placed in the peasant class? Of course they do not say that. Because Of world demand there has been quite an enormous increase in the income of certain producers and the consumer has had to pay for that increase. The undeniable fact is that this has placed an enormous strain on some consumers. It has placed a strain on all consumers but the strain on many of them is unbearable. In this land of plenty, in this land which can produce more food than we need, in this land which can supply other nations with their food supplies, we are currently faced with the position where some people cannot eat meat and some have to buy the cheapest cuts whether they eat meat once or twice a week. These are facts which the honourable member for Gippsland was good enough to acknowledge and I give him credit for acknowledging that some people cannot eat meat. But the honourable member said: Let the rest of the community look after them; fix it up with social welfare payments or let them go without; do not worry about them. Do not affect my rich friends; do not affect the people who put me in here to echo their selfish interests. Let the consumer pay. Let the producer, if he wants to, hold the gun at the head. 
The right honourable member for Higgins has said that the answer to the problem is to produce more meat. That is a marvellous suggestion. I remind him that the Committee considered that there were 2 problems associated with this suggestion, unless some of the producer geniuses on the other side of the House have the answer. To the best of my knowledge, gained from evidence given to the Committee, it takes 2 years to rear a calf, slaughter it and put it on the market. How we can get animals for the market next week I will leave it to honourable gentlemen opposite to explain. The other thing wrong with the right honourable member's answer is that evidence given to the Committee indicates that whatever production increase occurs in Australia it will be more than met by the rate of increase in overseas demand. What the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  has said to this House is the absolute truth, namely, that a diversion of some meat on to the Australian market will mean that local prices will fall and the price to overseas consumers will increase. About 70 per cent of all - (Quorum formed)  Mr Speaker,  I can understand the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  drawing attention to the state of the House, because I thought that members opposite might want this point debated. 
It cannot be ignored or disputed that this scheme, if adopted, will mean that meat will be redirected from the export market and an influx to the domestic market. This will result in lower prices for the Australian consumer. It will also mean higher incomes for the producers. In other words, the drop in domestic prices will be offset by the increased income which will come from overseas consumers. The proposal is that at least a great part of this tax will be refunded to the producer on the basis that it will go evenly to all producers. Even this proposal has been attacked by members opposite. The right honourable member for Higgins claims that this would be inequitable. By that suggestion he shows his ignorance of the proposal. It was argued by the honourable member for Gippsland that to promote a product when it is in short supply and the price is high is illogical and wrong. By applying his logic, one would gather that the honourable member for Gippsland is advocating that the $27m being paid in wool subsidies should be immediately withdrawn. I am sure that the country Press, of whom he is the darling, will no doubt be interested to print that tomorrow morning, because if the honourable member argues that one cannot subsidise and promote- 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
Of course this is urgent legislation and those who deny it are very foolish people. Let me remind this House that it is because of the action of the Opposition in another place that we are debating some of these measures for the second time. They. were too lazy in another place to detail their opposition. Some of the matters in this Bill before the Parliament, if we can accept what the honourable member for Wannon (Mr Malcolm Fraser) has said in his second reading speech, will apparently pass without opposition on this occasion. Yet when this legislation went before the Senate the Opposition voted against the Bill in total and threw it out. The Senate debated this legislation earlier this year in April and in May. It is now back in this House and honourable members opposite want to debate it at great length. In order to allow some effective time for the Committee stage of the Bill some of my colleagues and I stayed in our seats and remained silent while we listened to some illinformed nonsense being preached by honourable members on the other side. We did not reply to it. Now honourable members opposite are wasting time at this stage. 
The provisions in this Bill are urgent because the whole process of conciliation and arbitration in this country has been slowed down since the previous Government made a mess of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I will give some examples to my cousins from the bush who are seeking to interject. First of all, every time a new award is made or an agreement is reached it has to go through 2 procedures instead of one. That is the fault of the previous Government because its clumsy drafting and ignorance in government in not knowing how to draft legislation. Every time an award is made, even though the standard hours are not changed and the annual leave rate is not changed, we have to go before a full bench of 3 members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission instead of having it dealt with by a single member as was the case previously. This came about because of some bright move by the previous Government. It was some sort of reform. It has slowed the processes of conciliation and arbitration. The whole concept of allowing a conciliator to act as an arbitrator - which the present legislation does not allow - with the consent of both parties is designed to speed up considerably the processes of conciliation and arbitration. Does the Opposition want to delay that amendment? We are anxious to get it through so that the conciliation and arbitration proceedings will be smoother. 
We have heard all this argument before. It has been debated. I have with me a record of the previous Government's practices which shows the Acts, number of pages, the clauses and the time allowed for debate. I seek the leave of the House to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
Is leave granted? 
Leave is not granted. I can understand my friends opposite wishing to deny the people of Australia, particularly the trade unionists, their representatives and the employer organisations who keep this group opposite in opposition a knowledge of the facts. But the facts will be known, because they will all come out eventually. The record of the Opposition is pretty dismal. I am happy to let it be known and let it be seen by the people of Australia that honourable members opposite do not want the record incorporated in Hansard. I do not have time to read it. I wish I did because it shows the dismal, miserable way in which honourable members opposite ran the government of this country particularly on matters affecting conciliation and arbitration - a subject on a field in which they exhibited without any doubt complete and utter ignorance but on which they have spoken with such authority. 
The plain fact of the matter is that we are wasting far too much time on this clause. The Opposition agrees that sub-section (1) of the proposed new section 125 should be deleted. That means that inspectors may not be appointed except by a Minister. 
Of course it is right. 
The bill provides that sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall be omitted. The Opposition has not opposed that. It has moved an amendment to change sub-section (2A) and so on. Therefore subsection (1) will go out of the principal Act. In lieu thereof we have substituted the provisions in clause 54 of the Bill. So the only argument is whether the Minister should have the power to appoint as inspectors people who are already public servants or whether there should be a wider power to appoint persons who are public servants and persons who are outside the Public Service. That is the only issue in this debate. The present Act allows the Minister to appoint anyone he likes who is already a public servant. So all this talk about the Minister wishing to set up his own police force and so on is just a lot of nonsense. It is a real attempt to try to cover up what the Opposition really has in mind. 
Let it be clear for all to understand. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  who is not in the chamber at the moment, was the Minister for Labour and National Service prosecutions were very very rare. Complaints were very numerous but there were very few prosecutions launched and when they were launched or approval was given to launch them it was usually found that they were out of time. Therefore claims amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars were left outstanding. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition closed his eyes to breach after breach and of course this meant that migrants who could not speak English and did not understand their rights were being exploited. The honourable gentleman did nothing about it. 
The honourable gentleman can deny it if he wishes but the facts speak louder than just the mild assertion that it is not so. Also young students working during their Christmas vacation were frequently exploited and complaints which were made to the Department under the then Minister brought no result. These are the facts. It is all right to try to smear the present Minister for Labour by saying that he is trying to set up his own police force, with all its connotations. But honourable members opposite do not oppose the concept of the Minister appointing inspectors. In fact previous Ministers have appointed inspectors, except that they were public servants. All this clause does is to give to the Minister power to appoint persons who are public servants or otherwise. We ought to be very clear on this. The Opposition does not oppose the Minister having that right. He is the only person under the amended legislation to which the Opposition agrees who should have such a right. When in government the Opposition did this. It reserved this right for the then Minister but it now seeks to deny this right to the present Minister for Labour. 
I will not detain the Committee for long but one or two points need to be corrected. First of all, all the clap-trap about the reversal of the onus of proof needs to be exposed. Already in the present Act the onus rests on the defendant to prove that he was not actuated by the reason alleged in the charge. It is in the present sub-section (4). I remind honourable members opposite, including the eminent lawyer, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who seems to have left us temporarily, that that has been in the Act for nearly 60 years. Sixty years it has been there and this eminent authority on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act has not seen it before. 
It is there now. How can honourable members opposite accuse the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and this Government of attempting to reverse the onus when the Act already provides that the onus is on the defendant? 
The Opposition's argument is just a lot of nonsense. In fact what the Opposition seeks to do is to remove from the Bill those sections which grant to the employer a defence in a prosecution against the abuses which it foresees. It anticipates an abuse of right. The Bill provides an answer to it, a safeguard against it. A former government granted it, and the Opposition seeks to take it out. I am afraid that the logic of its argument just falls by the wayside. If the Minister were irresponsible and if Government members were as irresponsible as members of the Opposition are, that part of the amendment would be accepted and we would see how their friends like that proposition. 
The question of whether a matter is lawful or not is one which has actuated the attention of skilled people concerned with industrial relations, including commissioners, deputy presidents and presidents of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission over a number of years. The arbitration reports of the Commonwealth and of the various States are full of judgments dealing with disputes about arguments concerning actions of employers and employees which were lawful but which were unreasonable, and the debate has often centred not on whether something was within the law but on whether it was reasonable for the order to have been given. For example, if we look at a number of awards and agreements we find that there is a great area where nothing is said, where the intent is left in some doubt, where there is no clear definition of the rights or responsibilities of either party. 
There are many awards, for example, which have no limitation on overtime. There are awards which have no compulsion that overtime shall be worked. The question often arises: What is lawful? Is it lawful for the employer to require the overtime to be worked, or may the employee impose his own limitations? What is lawful is one thing; what is reasonable is another. I am afraid that this argument has gone down to a very petty, party political argument rather than a broad approach having been taken. I felt very confident when the honourable member for Wannon &lt;Mr Malcolm Fraser) gave his speech on  the second reading this afternoon that there would be perhaps a new approach to this problem and that we may get a bipartisan attitude to these matters but unfortunately, in respect of this clause, that certainly has not been the case. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 27 postponed. 
Proposed new clause 27a. 
Motion (by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) agreed to. 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "27a. After section 53 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 54. (1) Where, in the opinion of a member of the Commission, a matter concerning the safety of employees or of other persons in or about a place of work arises in or in connexion with an industrial dispute, he may request the Secretary to the Department of Labour to arrange for an Inspector forthwith to investigate the matter and to report to him as soon as practicable, and the Secretary shall direct an Inspector accordingly. 
The carrying out of an investigation in accordance with such a direction shall be deemed to be part of the duties of the Inspector under section 125. 
The provisions of sub-sections (5), (6) and (7) of section 125 apply in relation to an investigation by an Inspector in accordance with this section. 
A report of an Inspector under this section shall be considered by the member of the Commission where it is relevant to the performance of the powers and duties of the member under this Act and, unless there are special circumstances which in his opinion render it undesirable to do so, the member shall make the report public.'.". 
Clauses 28 to 45 postponed. 
Clause 46. 
Section 110 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in sub-section (2), after the words "made by", the words "the Secretary to the Department of Labour, an inspector or". 
Amendment (by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) agreed to: 
Omit " 'the Secretary to the Department of Labour, and Inspector or' ", substitute " 'the Minister or' ". 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 47 to 50 postponed. 
Clause 51. 
Section 119 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-sections (3) and (4) the words "twelve months" and substituting the words "six years". 
Sub-sections (3) and (4) of section 119 of the Principal Act, as amended by this section, apply notwithstanding that, before the commencement of this section, the amount concerned had ceased to be recoverable in accordance with section 119 of the Principal Act, or the time for bringing proceedings under that section had expired, as the case may be, before the commencement of this section. 
Amendment (by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) agreed to: 
Omit sub-clause (2), substitute the following subclauses: - "(2) The amendment made by this section to sub section (3) of section 119 of the Principal Act does not apply in relation to proceedings instituted before the date of commencement of this section, and the period referred to in that sub-section as so amended shall be deemed not to extend to any period of more than twelve months before the date of commencement of this section. "(3) The amendment made by this section to sub-section (4) of section 119 of the Principal Act does not apply in relation to breaches that occurred before the commencement of this section.'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 52 negatived. 
Clause 53.  53. (1) Section 123 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 123. An employee entitled to the benefit of an award may, at any time within six years from any payment becoming due to him under the award, but not later, sue for the amount of the payment in the Court, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction.'. 
The section inserted in the Principal Act by this section applies notwithstanding that the period of twelve months referred to in section 123 of the Principal Act had expired before the commencement of this section. 
Amendment (by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) agreed to: 
Omit sub-section (2), substitute the following sub-section: 
The period referred to in the section substituted by this section shall be deemed not to extend to any period of more than twelve months before the date of commencement of this section.'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 54 to 74 postponed. 
Proposed new clause 74a. 
Motion (by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) agreed to: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "74a. After section 169 of the principal Act the following sections are inserted: 169a. (1) A financial member of an organization may request the returning officer in respect of an election for an office of the organization or a branch of the organization or in respect of a ballot taken for the purpose of submitting a matter to a vote of the members of an organization or a branch of the organization to supply the member with information for the purpose of determining whether there has been an irregularity in or in connexion with the election or ballot. 
The returning officer shall not unreasonably refuse or fail to supply information so requested. 
Penalty: Five hundred dollars or imprisonment for six months, or both. 169b. Notwithstanding the rules of an organization, if two or more candidates are nominated for an election in respect of an office of an organization or branch of an organization and one of those candidates dies before the close of the ballot, the election shall be discontinued and a new election shall be held.'.". 
Clause 75 postponed. 
Clause 76 negatived. 
Clauses 77 to 79 postponed. 
Clause 80.  80. (1) After section 197 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - "197A. A party to- 
a proceeding before the Commission or the Registrar; shall not be ordered to pay any costs incurred by any other party to that proceeding.". 
Amendment (by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) agreed to: 
At the end of sub-clause (1) add the words 'except where the party against whom the order is made instituted the proceedings vexatiously or without reasonable cause'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 81 negatived. 
The speech to which we have just listened from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  must surely be one of the most remarkable speeches ever given in this Parliament. He said nothing, and needed  w  extension to time to say K. It was a speech which was abusive, illogical and irrelevant. Obviously one of two reasons prompted that speech. Either he could not think of anything to say against the proposition or. alternatively, he has not yet received his instructions from the outside forces which run the Liberal Party on what attitude he is to adopt. When he stands in this Parliament and says to this Government that it is a mangy deal because the senators who represent the Democratic Labor Party have agreed to support this proposition, one can only gather that he is speaking from past experience.  His  is the attitude of the jealous lover who has been rejected or rebuked. To attack a man like the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  as an economic illiterate shows the depth of the ignorance of the Leader of the Opposition. The Treasurer is the most highly qualified and best experienced man on economics on either side of this Parliament. 
It ill behoves the man who is now the Leader of the Opposition, who spent a time as Treasurer of this country, to criticise one who has achieved as much as has the present Treasurer. 
The difference between the speech of the Leader of the Opposition and that made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is truly remarkable. It is unfortunate that these proceedings were not broadcast this afternoon so that those who would have listened would have been able to make a comparison for themselves. The Prime Minister has shown in this whole area statesmanship and leadership in his anxiety to fight inflation. He has not been the one who has tramped around the country complaining that the Government would not bring in a prices-incomes policy, whatever is intended by that phrase. He is not the one who has been complaining about the price of meat pies. As soon as the by-election was over the Leader of the Opposition came before this Parliament and said: 'It is only a temporary problem. What is all the fuss about?' For sheer humbug and hypocritical argument that must take the prize. The Prime Minister's method has been to attack the causes with measures which are fair and equitable to all sections of the community. 
I remind the honourable gentleman who just interjected that this is not the time for slogan chanting. The Opposition is attempting to go on an economic excursion and to put the load onto the backs of the wage and salary earners. That is what a prices-wages freeze means. There is an atmosphere of economic hallucination in the Opposition's attitude toward? inflation in this country. The Opposition's attitude is deceptive and spurious. This oratorical shenanigan will not befool the Australian people. The Opposition has been advocating a price and wage freeze for at least the past several months. It has ignored the fact that similar policies have failed elsewhere in the world. It has also ignored the fact that there is no power to implement such a policy. As soon as the Opposition's bluff is called, as soon as we say to the people of Australia 'Give this Parliament the power to act', the Opposition wants to bow out and wants to go the opposite way. This surely must be the philosophy of humbug. 
The majority of workers in this country, as I said last week, have their wages regulated by a tribunal. If their wages are not regulated by independent tribunals they are regulated by their employer individually, but in 99 per cent of cases they are determined by the dictates of an employer organisation which issues a direction to the individual company. Now what is this nonsense about there being no control over wages at the present time? Some wages and some salaries are not controlled, but they are those which are received by the tall poppies in our community. The wages of all government employees, whether they be federal, State or municipal, are fixed by arbitral tribunals and the award rate is the actual wage rate. All those people who work for statutory bodies, State and federal corporations, are in the same position. All employees who are employed outside the metropolitan area are to be found close to award wages. Who says that the wages of such people are not fixed, controlled or regulated now? There are also those thousands and thousands of unorganised workers - almost 50 per cent - who are not members of unions or industrial organisations although covered by awards. 
The trade union movement, the employees of Australia and the wage and salary earners have nothing to fear from any action that this Government will take. They will embrace this proposal. They will vote for it because they realise that the incomes which are not subject to regulation today are the non-wage and non-salary incomes. The wage and salary incomes are already controlled. It will be of no use the Opposition trying to scare and hoodwink the wage and salary earners in Australia. In the 1959 report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, paragraph 765 quotes a statement by  Sir John  Latham, a former Chief Justice of the High Court. It states: 
There is reluctance in many quarters to approve any increase of federal power over industrial matters. Many are afraid of a parliament where a political party could in effect buy votes by raising wages. But there are many parliaments which have this power. There is the risk that a popularity-hunting parliament might do great damage in the industrial sphere - but any parliament may do great damage in many spheres by actions which it would be possible for it to take. If the Parliament went too far in raising wages - or in reducing wages - it could subsequently correct what it thought was an error, and in any event it would have full responsibility to the people for what it did or failed to do. The prospect of an election is a great steadying influence. Parliament would soon learn that it could not itself possibly deal with all aspects of employment, and it would establish authorities which would be given such independence in tenure as Parliament thought proper. 
He went on to advocate why the parliaments in the several States of Australia should have this power. The parliaments in the several States of Australia have this power now. 
I agree that you cannot trust some of them. I would not want to trust some of them either, but the question is, how do they use it? Have they been prepared or courageous enough to abuse that power? The answer is no, they have not - at least not for more than 40 years when the lesson was learnt the last time an attempt was made. I ask this House to look at what has been done by way of legislation in terms of wages and salaries in the State parliaments. I select New South Wales as a case in point. The New South Wales Parliament has legislated to maintain the basic wage and the margins concept in lieu of the total wage concept adopted by the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission. Following the 1950 basic wage decision there was an anomaly in New South Wales whereby female employees missed out on receiving a 1 addition because of the increase from 54 per cent to 75 per cent in the female basic wage. The New South Wales Parliament passed legislation eventually to give that 1 back to the thousands of female wage and salary earners in that State. In 1953, and subsequently, cost of living adjustments to the basic wage were maintained in New South Wales by legislative action. Five years later we saw the introduction by legislation of equal pay provisions. 
Such things as the minimum wage represent a social and political decision which the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission is required to make each year. But, of course, the other incomes area is what concerns members of the Opposition. They are concerned about their wealthy friends who for years have been milking the economy dry. I refer to the people who have been getting a bonanza out of inflation, the people who have been taking all the cream off the top of the milk and leaving the skim milk for the wage and salary earner to drink and digest as best he can. The Opposition wants to protect the investor, the man who is not subject to control or regulation in terms of the rent he charges for ramshackle old places at Bondi for which he is getting $40 to $50 a week or, in the case of 2 old age pensioners on $40 a week, $26 for a couple of rooms. I refer also to dividends being completely uncontrolled and unregulated. The investor does not have to justify what dividend he receives. He is able to get whatever he can get from the Board of directors of a company. Another field is professional charges. The Opposition would leave free the doctors, lawyers, dentists and service charges. What members of the Opposition have put to this Parliament is their desire to keep the control of wages that they now have and to let the tall poppies help themselves to the cream and take advantage of the bonanza. I recall the wages freeze in the early 1950s which was introduced in this country with the encouragement of the then Liberal-Country Party coalition. I also recall at that time the philosophy of Chief Judge Kelly who believed that wages should be kept down and that any increase in wages was inflationary. 
I recall decisions by the late Commissioner Findlay of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission who was an outstanding Commissioner but a man who was accused by learned judges of practising and preaching arbitral heresy because he dared to say that when prices went up the workers were entitled to get an increase in their wages. Those were the days when there was a wages freeze by the back door. We saw it happen and we know it can happen and we want to see that if there is going to be any regulation of incomes it should be the responsibility of Parliament to make that decision and that those who make it should be subject to public control and should have to account for their actions in the political polling place in due course. 
What is this nonsense we hear about a wages freeze and a prices freeze? One would think that the Leader of the Opposition was a salesman for Westinghouse. In fact, in certain places of employment he has the nickname of Freezer Bill and I think that is a fair tag to put on him because all he can say is: Freeze it'. All that means is that the inequity and the injustice between the current level of wages and the present level of prices exploitation would be maintained. The wage and salary earner would have no chance to catch up. I will not use all the time that is available to me because I know that other honourable members wish to speak in this debate. However, I ask honourable members to vote for this Bill. I believe that the workers of Australia will vote overwhelmingly for this proposition. I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his statesmanship and leadership on this total issue and in bringing this proposition before the Parliament. He will have the overwhelming support of the Australian people for both of these proposals. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the House. Has the Minister seen the Press statement by a senator in which he objected to certain statements made yesterday in this House by the Leader of the Opposition? Will he consider taking appropriate steps to ensure that the dignity of this 
House is not further damaged by the use of intemperate and intimidatory language? Is it a fact that many members of the Opposition were elected to this House on Australian Democratic Labor Party preferences? Will he give those members of the Opposition who depend so heavily on Democratic Labor Party preferences the opportunity to dissociate themselves publicly as well as privately from the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition? 
I am sure that all who have heard this debate so far will feel a sense of disgust and shame at some of the cheap political gimmickry which has come from the other side of the House and the cheap gratuitous insults which have been offered at a time when the people of New South Wales are suffering considerable hardship and the economy of this country is suffering because of a severe industrial dispute. I invite the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who is trying to interject, to dispute what I am saying. There has been no dispute in this country's history which has been resolved by the exchange of gratuitous insults. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  know from their own experience that what I say is true. This country is presently confronted with a serious situation. Do we have a constructive suggestion from members of the Opposition? Do they come forward like responsible members of Parliament? No, they come forward with a mixture of cheap political gimmickry and cheap second rate name calling which is the best that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  could put forward. 
What is behind this motion of censure against the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  because he refused to extend and further involve this country in a severe and critical industrial dispute? First of all one must wonder why the motion was moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  One might perhaps wonder whether this is not tied up with the internecine bitter struggle which is going on on the other side of the House about who is to be the Leader of the Opposition before the next election? One might think that it is part of some kind of cynical plan which seems to be emerging in New South Wales to take the heat off a bankrupt Premier who has no answer to the problems of the State and is attempting to manufacture problems so that he can divert interest from his own inadequacy. This is the position with which we are confronted. I want to say to members of the LiberalCountry Party clique on the opposite side that this dispute will be resolved whether they like it or not. No matter how hard they might try for their own cynical purposes to continue it and to perpetuate the suffering and hardship they will fail because at this stage there are too many people concerned to try to find a solution. 
Members of the Opposition have said nothing. This is like their counterparts in New South Wales. They are prepared, knowing the futility of their action, to say it is desirable that there should be a complete standoff between the parties to the dispute. They come here today to try to exacerbate that situation. The New South Wales Government is guilty of serious dereliction of duty. I am sure that the people of that State will cast proper judgment in due course. They, and members of the Opposition in this House, have trespassed against the public interest. What are the facts. The simple facts are that the New South Wales Minister for Mines,  Mr Fife  - not strife as the name is sometimes being mispronounced - last week confirmed in the New South Wales Parliament that what the Minister for Minerals and Energy has told this Parliament is exactly correct. He has done that. 
The honourable member is not up with the news. He is a bit out of touch. I know that half the Liberal Party does not talk to the other part, but perhaps he might be able to obtain a copy of the New South Wales Hansard from the Parliamentary Library and see that what I am saying is correct. It is reported for all to see. Yet, members of the Liberal Party in this Parliament, aided and abetted by the Country Party-Democratic Labor Party group, come along here to attack the Minister for the sole purpose of trying to divert attention from a solution of this dispute. It does no credit to any member of this House- 
I can understand the apprehension of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  The only responsible suggestion in the last week aimed at solving the dispute came from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). 
That is the most unintelligent remark I have heard the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  make. The Minister for Minerals and Energy is under attack in this Parliament today because he said that the Australian Government will not allow itself to be put in a position where it may create a dispute which could perhaps black out all of New South Wales and half of Victoria. That is what the Opposition wants. The Opposition sought to set the Minister up in a cynical and callous manner, without regard to the public interest, in order to try to gain a miserable, cheap political objective, lt does no credit to the Opposition. 
The Minister simply said that 2 considerations were involved. One con sideration relates to irrigation and the other relates to power generation. He acted wisely in respect of both. In regard to the first matter, irrigation, I accept the advice of experts that it was a wise decision. As for the second matter, 1 need no advice. I know very well that what would have occurred is simply this: The Minister would have been asked or expected to take an action which would have caused a strike. Presumably at that stage - because the fighting would have been in the Minister's territory and not that of the New South Wales Government - the New South Wales professional engineers would have been told to do the work of the striking men who normally generate the power. That is what would have happened. Others in Victoria, probably under the influence of Liberal Party collusion, would have been told to do the same. This would have caused the most extraordinary situation in the industrial annals of this country. For the first time ever we would have had a situation in which men sent in to break a strike would have been enjoying the conditions which the men on strike were trying to obtain. These are facts. The strike breakers would have been working a 35-hour-week - as they are - and those out on strike would be refusing to work because they could not get a 35-hour week. That sort of logic might be all right in the councils of the Liberal Party, it might suit the comedian who is the temporary Premier of New South Wales, but it does not suit a responsible Australian Minister who has obligations to the Australian people and who takes them seriously. That, of course, is the big difference. 
The Prime Minister, seeing that the 2 parties were separated widely, made a generous offer to make available an independent judge, a member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, with a view to getting the parties to confer again - not to review the decision of the New South Wales Industrial Commission, not to form a de facto court of appeal, but to try to get negotiations started again. What response did he get from the Premier of New South Wales? He rubbished it. He treated it with contempt. He ridiculed the suggestion. He acted like a man in panic. He acted like a man who did not want a settlement of a dispute. This leads me to the belief that there must be people high in the Liberal Party who do not want this dispute resolved. Every single action that they take is designed to continue and to extend that dispute. They would be very happy indeed if they could kid the Australian Government into a position where it would fight it out and where the New South Wales Government would, as it were, stand back - I suppose with more wisecracks - while the people of New South Wales and also Victoria suffered because of this cheap political cynicism. 
As the Minister for Labour points out, the losses to industry today are enormous. The increases in costs are enormous. The fact that a reduction has occurred in the production of urgently needed supplies of goods and services is a serious matter. But does the Opposition care? Do Opposition members go to their Liberal colleagues and say: 'Why not give the Prime Minister's suggestion a fair chance?' What have they to lose and what has any party to this dispute to lose from a further discussion and a further conference? 
I thank the Minister. Only men who are frightened of the emergence of the facts and only those who are scared to justify their position are the ones who refuse to discuss and to negotiate in these matters. 
There are some unsatisfactory features in this strike. Nobody on this side of the Parliament is happy with the present situation. We are very concerned. But the Prime Minister has made a constructive suggestion. It is up to the Liberals and to their colleagues in New South Wales to respond in a sensible and responsible manner, if that is within their capacity. Let us not forget this: The Askin Government in New South Wales more than  2i  years ago granted the 35-hour week to 35 per cent of the employees of the Electricity Commission of New South Wales. The same Askin Government which today says to the Australian Government: 'When you grant the 35-hour week to your public servants, we will have a different attitude; we will have to reconsider our position',  2i  years ago gave the 35-hour week to public servants in New South Wales. Of course that was just before an election, and it was a promise; I suppose that that makes some difference to the matter. 
The Premier of New South Wales is attempting to act in a quite irresponsible way. His colleagues in this House are attempting to coerce the Government into a similar situation. 
The people of New South Wales are suffering while the New South Wales Government and the State Industrial Commission pass the buck backwards and forwards. Let me say this to the honourable member for Wannon: There has not been an umpire's decision, to use his quaint but quite inaccurate term. There has been no arbitration about a dispute. The New South Wales Industrial Commission was asked to inquire into the question of working hours and to make a report to the Government. It has no power in its own right to grant the claim. It does not have the power to grant working hours less than 40 hours. It is not like the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which, if it wishes, can order a 20- hour week. 
But we hear served up this nonsense and garbage that if a 35-hour week is granted to some employees it must spread to everybody else in industry. Did that stop the Askin Government from awarding a 35-hour week to its own public servants to get an advantage? Certainly not. What has been the history in the Federal sphere for instance in the stevedoring industry, in the container packing industry and in the coal mining industry? Those are 3 industries which by a combination of agreement in some cases and arbitration others have been awarded a 35-hour week. What has been the result? There has been no flow-on of that decision - no flow-on at all. I say to honourable members opposite who are trying to interject that when they know what they are talking about they should then speak. There has been no flow-on. There has been no - I emphasise the word 'no' - loss in productivity. In fact in some industries there has been an increase in productivity. This is a time when members of this Parliament ought to be acting responsibly and ought to put the national interest before their own personal and party political considerations. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister, ls it the intention of the Australian Government to seek United Nations intervention to halt the present military aggression against Israel? As the last Australian Labor Government played such a prominent role in the establishment of Israel as an independent democratic state, will the present Labor Government use its best efforts to obtain a ceasefire and an end to the current hostilities? Further, will the Government intensify its efforts to achieve the objective stated by the Prime Minister earlier this year in the following terms: 
We have affirmed, and we continue to believe, that the best prospect for an enduring peace in the Middle East will flow from an agreement freely arrived at between the parties. My Government will work to secure support for negotiations towards such an agreement, both in the United Nations and in all our diplomatic endeavours. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I think it ill-behoves the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to suggest that when I want to comment on what he said it is a waste of time. If he were concerned about saving time he would not have served up the dose of drivel he did just a few minutes ago. If he were concerned to save time this matter would have been put to a vote 10 minutes ago. In fact, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  made an offer to this House that if the Opposition were prepared to vote on the matter straight away that would save time. The retort to that offer came from the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party who said that it was blackmail. He has a very poor grasp of the English language. He does not understand plain, ordinary English. When the matter is debated from this side of the House the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says: 'It is wasting time'. They are the sort of people that one cannot please. They are the sort of people who do not understand logic and for that reason- 
You are the sort of people that the Australian people do not trust and that is why you are sitting on that side of the 
House. You went from this side to that side of the House because the people did not trust you, and for very good reason. Your record did not stand up to an examination. The factual position in this matter is that the Opposition is engaged in an exercise of hypocrisy. The Opposition is prepared to oppose this legislation outright. The reasons that it opposes it outright fall into 2 categories. Firstly, the Opposition is defending the interests of its wealthy friends and benefactors. Secondly, the Opposition wishes to deny the ordinary Australian people the opportunity to share in the benefits of the capital growth of Australia. The Opposition denies the ordinary citizens the opportunity which this legislation presents for them to participate in the great national development which is occurring. The Opposition denies the ordinary people who are afraid of the stock market and the stock brokers the opportunity to put their savings into a place where they will grow with the national growth of Australia. That is the essence of this legislation. There are 2 sides in this House as far as this legislation is concerned. There are those who are prepared to side with the rich man - the international investor. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! When I listen to this babble I can remember that when I was a child I heard a remark by a predecessor in this chair,  Mr Archie  Cameron, who said that the babble in the House reminded him of being in a 2-up school. I am starting to think that we are reverting to those days. I remind the honourable member for Phillip that the discussion must be limited to the motion before the chair. 
I, of course, was falling for the temptation to respond to some of the irrelevant interjections which were coming from the other side of the House. I will do my best to resist that temptation. However, I believe that this is a matter which should be considered urgently by this House because the issues are great. But the issues are also simple. We do not need a week to debate whether we want to side with big business and financial institutions or to give the Australian people the right to participate in the economic growth of Australia. That is what the issues are all about. As the Minister pointed out, this legislation was introduced on 30 August. The Opposition has had plenty of time to consider the matter. Its problem has not been time to give consideration to the matter; its problem has been that the instructions from its big business friends have been a bit slow in coming through. The channels of communication have been slowed down and the Opposition has been caught on the hop. It has not been until this week that the Opposition Iras received its instructions from outside this Parliament. Honourable members opposite have to vote and they have to make up their minds. We are here to make sure that this essential legislation is not unduly delayed. 
This must be one of the most remarkable debates that this Parliament has heard. The great criticism by the Opposition of the Government falls into a single category. It is a demand that the Government should reduce expenditure and spend more money. That is a most remarkable situation. The Opposition spokesmen so far have demanded that more should be spent on defence, that more money should be given to the States and that there should be a restoration of funds and benefits for the rural sector of the economy. In the very same breath, in a completely unashamed manner, they try to shrug off the illogical aspect of their argument and demand that Government expenditure be reduced. These are truly remarkable people. They are the descendents of those who gained government by promising to put value back into the pound and set Australia off on the highest rate of inflation which it has ever experienced. No previous government in Australia's history has been so prepared to attempt seriously to rebuild the new society that our citizens desire and need to improve the quality of life. 
The want of confidence motion is insincere and cynical, and it is sponsored by people who are desperate and politically opportunistic. Honourable members opposite are truly strangers in a strange land. They have been overwhelmed by the speed of progress and the pace of change, and they are unable to cope with everything that is occurring. I should say at this stage that honourable gentlemen opposite should realise that noise is no substitute for logic, and to carry on with idle chatter like one would expect from a cage full of halftrained cockatoos will not impress the Australian electorate and will not get honourable members opposite back on this side of the House. They have to do much better than that. The carping criticism, the destructive criticism of the Government's actions without one single positive suggestion as to how current economic problems may be overcome is useless and will gain no support from the Australian people. But the masters of the Opposition are upset and concerned about the change in national emphasis. They had plans to continue the erosion and the ultimate elimination of Australian ownership and control of Australian industry. The plan was to reduce the Australian people to the position of being unprotected tenants in their own country. 
A great deal has been said about strikes and about the outbreak of industrial disputes, so called. I am the last to suggest that the present situation is satisfactory. I am one who believes that the ultimate objective of this Parliament and of any government which sits in it should be to eliminate the cause and need for industrial disputes. I for one am quite disgusted to hear the nonsense which is preached from the other side of the House, with the possible exception of the rare speech which emanates from one or two individuals and which is constructive in its suggestion. I include the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who made a speech during the second reading debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which I, for one, believed might herald a new era in this House and a new standard of debate on industrial relations. We have seen today a degeneration of those lofty principles down to the level of cheap political opportunism. 
What are the facts of the. present situation? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  referred to 860,000 working days lost. The Government's Bill, which proposes to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and which is designed to give effect to the mandate of the Australian Constitution to prevent as well as settle industrial disputes, is still awaiting the approval of the other chamber. When the Bill passed through this House some months ago it was opposed and the Liberal-Country Party coalition succeeded in convincing the Senate to reject the Bill in its totality. It is no use honourable gentlemen opposite now disclaiming any responsibility. The measures contained in that Bill are designed to put the emphasis on conciliation for the prevention of disputes. It is no use honourable members opposite trying to ridicule what the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said in respect of this matter. They know what he has said is the truth and that the responsibility is theirs. They are the guilty men. 
Let us look at the working days lost in Australia. In the year ended June 1971, 1,328,600 working days were lost through industrial disputes. In the year ended June 1972, 1,422,300 working days were lost- in other words, an increase of less than 100,000 days in the whole year. Let me remind honourable gentlemen opposite that all production lost is a loss to the Australian community, particularly in this period when there is a shortage of goods and services. As a result of accidents in New South Wales alone, in the year ended June 1972, 1.9 million working days were lost. That is the figure for one State alone; figures on a nation-wide basis are not available to me. 
The number of days lost through industrial disputes pales into minor insignificance when compared with the number of days lost through the disastrous economic policies of the previous Government. For example, at June 1972, the seasonally adjusted figure for unemployment was 105,000. Many more people than that were actually out of work, but that was the seasonally adjusted figure. That figure means that 4.25 million working hours were being lost every week at that time. The Leader of the Opposition, who was then the Treasurer - the architect behind and the man responsible for that disaster - has the gall and the nerve to try to convince the Australian people that this Government is responsible for a loss in production of some 860,000 working days. He caused approximately as much loss of working days every week through his own direct and deliberate action. That is serious. The fact that in that period some 4.25 million working hours were lost every week is a direct cause of the shortages of goods and services that wc are experiencing today. Let us face this fact: The position today is that we are short of goods and services because of the increased consumer demand which is existing, as well as certain other factors. 
What about this question of industrial relations? Has a really constructive and practical proposition been put forward by the Opposition? Certainly not. Do we in this Parliament understand that there is a real problem of communication in the work place? Let me take one simple example of this. In the course of the recent Ford dispute, the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commision made a judgment. At the end of that decision, for the first time since Federation and for the first time since the end of the Second World War when our great immigration program commenced, the  President  directed and found it necessary to order formally that his decision be printed in several languages, because he thought it proper that everybody affected by that decision should be able to read it and understand it. How do we truly expect to improve communication and industrial relations if in some industries the majority of employees cannot even read the conditions under which they work? 
The previous Government did nothing at all in that regard, but members of the former Government Parties, now in Opposition, criticise the Australian Government - the best Australian Government since the Second World War - in this respect. They seek to blame the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and this Government for the power strike in New South Wales. The Leader of the Opposition, driven in his desperate anxiety to head off the challenge to his leadership, even attempted to blame the Prime Minister for the garbage strike in Sydney over last weekend. We could do with a garbage strike in this House from time to time to try to cut out some of the garbage which comes across the centre table. 
The power dispute was a classic example of a government deliberately attempting to provoke an industrial dispute to subject the people of New South Wales to misery and suffering in order to gain some form of political advantage. During that strike the Prime Minister of Australia same forward with the only positive, concrete, sensible suggestion that was made in the whole dispute. And what did the Premier of New South Wales say? When he read the message and received the suggestion from the Prime Minister, fearful that this would settle the dispute, he told the Prime Minister: 'Go away and mind your own business. I do not want anybody settling the disputes that I am creating.' That was the sort of attitude he adopted. Now his little puppet here, the Leader of the Opposition, stands up and attempts to place some criticism on the Australian Government. This no confidence motion is conceived in hypocrisy. It is born in political opportunism. It deserves to be rejected by this House. I share the confidence of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that it will be rejected overwhelmingly by this Parliament. 
Let us look at the consumer price index. It shows an increase of 10.6 per cent. That is too high. The Government knows it is too high. The Government is determined to reduce as far as possible the rate of increase in prices. In fact the Government has taken action to reduce prices. But let us look at the facts. Do not let us just run away with statistics. There are some important facts to be looked at, and members of the Australian Country Party should be the first to look at them because when they stand in this Parliament and demand that action be taken to reduce the rate of increase they are demanding that their pets in this community should have their incomes reduced. Half the cost of living increase is attributable to food, and the great bulk of that is related to the rapid and substantial increase in the cost of meat and potatoes. Their hypocrisy is exposed every time we look at what they say. 
On the one hand they demand that there should be a free market situation. No matter how the market is controlled by private investors, they say there must be no government intervention. 'Do not touch the meat prices. Do not have a meat tax,' they say. The Government listened to them. 'Do not restrict the export of meat from Australia which is causing the great increases at the present time. Leave all that alone so that we can then come along and attack you for doing nothing.' That is their attitude. It is well for them to see and it is well for their electorate to understand what they are arguing for here today. When they say that the consumer price index rate of increase must be reduced they are advocating action to reduce the price of meat in this country and the price received by the producers. 
The only answer the Liberal and Country parties of this country have had for a quarter of a century is that when they achieved excess demand they say: 'Let us reduce the demand.' This Government takes exactly the opposite view. It says: 'Let us increase the supply.' And that is what we are going to do. If it means we have to put up with the carping, nonsensical criticism of the Opposition in the process we will do it. If the Opposition succeeds in misleading some of the Australian people and we suffer the consequences of that, we will accept that too. But we are not going to be diverted just because of their criticism from what is right and from the positive steps to reconstruct this country so that all of its citizens have equality of opportunity, so that all of its citizens have a better life style. 
The Opposition's system is to create a massive pool of unemployment. Honourable members opposite regarded it as a disaster if the number of unemployed fell below 100,000. If it fell below 100,000 they were running around trying to find how to get it back up to 100,000 again. What did the previous Government do in terms of its manpower policy? It said: 'What is that?' The previous Government did not have a manpower policy. Its only manpower policy was to create unemployment. Today home buyers are bearing the brunt of the situation which developed in the building trade. The result is chaos because the previous Government allowed a situation to develop in which there were no training facilities available for young men and young women who wished to enter the skilled trades in the building industry. Only a year ago we saw a situation where there was massive unemployment in this country. The former Government did nothing to retrain those unemployed workers - not a thing. It did nothing to attempt to regulate the price of land. Unemployment was rife a year ago, and the then Prime Minister was almost on his political knees begging the Australian community: 'Please spend some money - anything, one cent, $1, $10. Please spend your money'. 
The Opposition today says that this Government does not have the confidence of the Australian people. The people have too much confidence. People are spending all their savings. They have absolute confidence in the future. The old idea of keeping your money because you do not know whether you will be out of a job next week is gone and people are now prepared to spend. That means that we have a great demand - a demand which cannot be satisfied because of a number of factors, one of which is directly attributable to the lack of manpower policy of the Opposition. The present Minister for Labour, contrasted with the previous Minister for Labour, is the first man since the Second World War to undertake a manpower survey in this country. He has positive suggestions to make which I understand will be forthcoming in the near future. Confucius said: Study the past if you would divine the future'. In other words, have a look at the track form before you have a bet. That is what the Australian people will do. When they look at the track form of the Opposition and look at how it has gone in previous races they will see what the Opposition's attitude is. It opposed price regulation. It is opposed to legislation to regulate restrictive trade practices. It has opposed revaluation of the currency. It has opposed the restrictions placed by this Government on foreign capital investment. It has opposed tariff reductions. It has opposed the Australian Industry Development Corporation legislation, a substantial part of which is designed to encourage citizens to save their money and to invest it in Australian industry. Of course, the Opposition does not want the ordinary people in Australia to invest their money. It does not want the ordinary citizen to have a stake in the future of this country. It wants to keep it for its rich and powerful friends - the overseas monopolies, the international cartels and the multi-national corporations. It has opposed land price stabilisation. 
It says: 'Gut expenditure'. I suppose it means that we should reduce the money for education; that it is wrong for us to want to make a massive investment in the future so that there will be in Australia better trained people, people with better understanding, able to develop a better quality of life. Reduce pensions is the other possibility. We could put them hack to where the former Government had them in the poverty class, trapped in the poverty trap. That is where they would be - caught in the poverty trap forever perhaps. It is interesting to note that although the consumer price index increased by 10.6 per cent, pension increases granted so far and projected and promised will mean an increase of 14 per cent in the pensions payable to the elderly citizens of Australia. We will not deny those who built this economy. We will not leave them in a state of misery as the former Government did in its cynical and callous way. The consumer price index is an indicator; it is not conclusive. It has been well established that as prices rise so consumer habits change. I am very sorry to say - I know it has no effect on some honourable members opposite - that because of increasing meat prices the consumption of beef in Australia is falling. It means that some are going without red meat. What a ludicrous situation we are in because of the attitude of the Opposition when it was in government for far too long. 
This motion is a desperate attempt to drag this Government down. It is all part of the plan. It started when this Government started to question the role of the multi-national corporations. The Australian people will not be fooled. They know who the agents of the international monopolies are in this place, and they will not be fooled by the smokescreen that is drawn out. Neither will we. As Cicero said, the good of the people is the chief law. That is what we will abide by. We will not abide by the greed and avarice represented by members opposite. We will not bow the knee to the god of the multi-national corporation and the international cartel. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration the following question: In view of the fact that many thousands of nonEnglish speaking migrants make up a significant part of the Australian work force, will the Minister take steps to make available appropriate explanatory material in the relevant languages showing the rights as well as the obligations of employees? Will the Minister confer with the Minister for Labour with a view to ensuring that awards and decisions of State and Australian arbitration tribunals as well as State and Australian statutes are translated and published in the appropriate languages so that all workers, irrespective of their national origin, will understand and have the capacity to enforce their rights legally? Is this matter yet another important area neglected by the previous Government? 
 Mr Speaker,  yesterday when addressing this House I made a statement which is in error. I referred to the fact that in June 1972 there were 105,000 Australians out of work, unemployed. I referred to that resulting in 4.25 million working days being lost each week. I made that reference twice. The figure should have been 4.25 million working hours lost, not days lost. The consequential correction of what I said is that approximately as many working days were lost every week as a result of unemployment as were lost through industrial disputes. I regret having misled the House. It was an error made by me in the course of my speech on the want of confidence motion, as reported at page 2505 of Hansard of yesterday's date. I would appreciate it if the correction were made. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it the intention of the Australian Government to enable ordinary Australians for the first time to share in the wealth of their own nation's industries and resources? Is much of this wealth now being siphoned off by foreign owned corporations? Will the Government actively encourage Australian citizens, either individually or acting in concert, to invest their savings in national enterprises, thereby receiving direct benefits from the development and growth of such enterprises? Is it the intention of the Australian Government to prevent a continuation of the sell out of Australian industries and resources to foreign interests? Would savings and investment in industrial development by ordinary citizens have a significant effect on the current inflationary pressures? 
The contribution made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was really so immature as to not deserve any serious consideration by the House. However, perhaps the record should be set straight. I think that this Parliament ought to try as far as possible to ensure that accuracy is the lodestar by which we act, particularly in serious matters such as industrial relations. The honourable gentleman seems to have the impression, or would convey the impression to the Australian people, that it was not until 2 December 1972 that there was any industrial trouble in this country. 
Less, says the honourable member. The facts of the matter are that there is significantly very little difference if one looks at the total figures. In fact when one looks at the loss of production caused by the economic policies of the previous Government one finds that the loss through strikes pales into insignificance. A little over one million man days were lost last year through strikes. Through the unemployment policies of the previous Government about half a million man days were lost every week. So that Government lost as much in a fortnight through its disastrous economic policies as was lost in a whole year through all of the strikes which have occurred in the last 12 months. 
The other thing which honourable members opposite conveniently overlook and which they were very keen to neglect during their almost quarter of a century in office is the loss of production caused through industrial accidents. Last year in New South Wales alone 1.9 million man days were lost through industrial accidents. Leaving aside the misery and suffering caused to the people who were injured in those accidents, the pure economic loss in 
New South Wales alone was 1.9 million man days. If the honourable gentleman is sincere and believes that lost production ought to be attacked, why does he not speak about the negligence of employers which allowed such accidents to occur? I would like to hear him speak on that subject at some time. He would gain far more credit if he were to do so. But he is not interested. He is beset by this mania he has for seeing every strike as some kind of a left wing communist plot inspired from overseas. 
I know that there are communists in the trade union movement. In fact I have seen more of them than the honourable gentleman ever will. What is more, he has talked about the problem; I have done something about it. It ill behoves him to stand up with his blanket brush approach and try to smear every member on this side of the House in the way he has done tonight. Let us look at the industrial problems of Australia in a sensible, intelligent light. It ought to be a non-political issue. All those who are sincere on the matter will appreciate that in this era, which did not start on 2 December last, a completely new situation in industrial relations is emerging. It calls for the considered opinion of all sections of this Parliament. This should not be approached on a party political basis. The honourable gentleman does nothing about that. He sees this problem as being designed, as he puts it, to get to a revolutionary situation. That is a whole lot of eyewash. It is a load of garbage to talk in this way. It is as far from the truth as one could possibly imagine. 
A real problem is emerging through lack of communication and through workers having aspirations they wish to achieve in the shortest possible time. We have a real difficulty which must be faced. Let me say this to the honourable gentleman:  His  Party had a simple solution to industrial problems. It still has that solution. Honourable members opposite say that the answer to the problem is to continue with penal provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act; to apply sanctions against unions when there is an industrial dispute. I ask the honourable member to tell us when he stood up in this Parliament during the reign of the previous Government to ensure that the fines imposed by the Industrial Court were collected. Is it a fact that the previous Government refused to collect fines which were imposed? Of course it is a fact. Is it not also a fact that the previous Government changed the law to give the Industrial Court more discretion? Of course it is. There are still unpaid fines in this community because the honourable member and his colleagues knew that it was not the answer and that that concept was dead and could not possibly achieve industrial peace. 
This Bill is of urgent and vital importance to the great majority of the Australian people. The Bill clearly divides this Parliament into 2 groups: Those who support adequate protection for the Australian people and those who represent the interests of the monopolies and other big business. The Liberal-Country Party group is again exposed as the agent of the international business group. By its delaying tactics it has displayed its willingness to protect the business racketeers. Its supporters are on the side of those who arrange and organise the international cartels. They claim to be advocates of free enterprise but by delaying this Bill they are protecting and encouraging the destruction of small Australian enterprises and they are allowing foreign-owned and controlled corporations to exploit the Australian consumer. It is ludricous to make comparisons between the almost insignificant power of the individual consumer and the mighty power of the giant global corporations. We must have public protection in this country. The whole community must guarantee the legitimate rights of the most humble citizen. This Government is concerned to protect the rights of all its citizens. The basic issue in this legislation is individual rights. 
Australia has been very slow to introduce legislation which effectively protects the rights of consumers. The United States, which is often said to be the home of capitalist society, has had strong protective legislation for many years - legislation which guarantees the rights of consumers and which outlaws many of the insidious practices which have been allowed to go on in this country virtually unchecked. Our Liberal-Country Party governments have been very loath indeed to interfere with the power of their rich and powerful benefactors. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development as far back as 14 and IS December 1971 made recommendations to various governments. The Australian Government of the day put them on the long finger. Those recommendations were as follows: 
that they should promptly take steps, within the framework of their existing legislation: 
to _ apply their restrictive business practices legislation with great vigilance against the detrimental effects especially 
of price-fixing and market-sharing agreements, 
of monopolistic and oligopolistic practices affecting prices, and 
of restrictive business practices in the field of patents and patent licensing; 
to keep under review the price situation in key sectors of their economies which have  a  monopolistic or oligopolistic structure in order to reduce any excessive prices by administrative or legal means at their disposal; 
' to examine whether the bodies responsible for the enforcement of the restrictive business practices legislation have adequate means at their disposal to carry out the measures outlined in paragraphs (i) and (ii) above; 
to strengthen their consumer policies in relation to consumer protection, education and information, where they assist competition to function more effectively; 
that they should examine the advisability of adopting the following longer-term measures, which may require new legislation: 
stronger action- by means of prohibition or control - against resale price maintenance, recommended prices when they operate with  a  similar effect to resale price maintenance, and refusal to sell employed in connection with resale price maintenance or with recommended prices; 
effective provisions against the harmful practices of monopolies and oligopolies; 
effective provisions against undesirable mergers and concentrations of enterprises which limit competition unduly; 
extension of their legislation to cover restrictive business practices in service industries or in those sectors to which it does not apply or does not fully apply, when these exemptions are insufficiently justified having regard to the public interest. 
In December 1971 the OECD made those recommendations. For a full year the LiberalCountry Party Government did virtually nothing except in the middle of 1972 when it brought in an apology for legislation which it claimed was designed to inhibit restrictive trade practices. It is important that this Parliament should realise who we are dealing with and who are the giant corporations that are concerned with these monopolistic practices in the main. The big multi-nationals are the chief opponents of this legislation. We are listening in this Parliament to people saying that they are for it but not now; that they would support the legislation if only they had time. To use their new expression, time's up'. This is the time when effective legislation is to be introduced and they have to stand up and be counted. The Australian people will not be terribly impressed by listening to some kind of a giant multi-national ventriloquist act. These people are in favour of the legislation but they are looking for an excuse to oppose it. The length of time they have had to consider it - nearly 2 years - is sufficient for them and that is the excuse- they need. 
I will just give the sales figures for a number of companies. Sales by General Motors Corporation represent $28, 300m per annum; sales by the Ford Motor Company represents $ 16,400m per annum; Royal Dutch Shell Co. sales amount to $1 2,700m; the General Electric Corporation sales represent $9,400m per annum; Mobil Oil sales represent $8,200m per annum; Unilever sales represent $7, 500m; Philips Industries sales represents $5,200m; Siemens sales represent $3, 800m per annum; Imperial Chemical Industries sales represent $3,700m per annum. They are the sort of corporations that our friends opposite are crying for. They are the people whom Opposition members have in mind when they say that we must be clear about what we are doing and that we must not unduly affect them. Why is this the case in view of the competition as it were between these people and the individual Australian manufacturer or the small housewife with a grievance - the individual consumer? It is a ludicrous position when we consider the power and might of these giant corporations. It is ludicrous to expect the individual Australian consumer to be able to compete on equal terms with such mighty power. The Australian manufacturers are also consumers. They are reliant on many of these big corporations for their supplies. Many of these multi-national corporations have the power in their grasp to determine whether or not many Australian manufacturers have the right to exist. 
A very important weapon against inflation - as was pointed out by the OECD - is true competition. This legislation is designed to achieve that objective. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Imigration. Is the New South Wales migrant task force recommendation for the creation of special orientation courses for migrants to be implemented? Will the Minister further consider urgently the use of hostels as orientation centres? 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is concerned about the lack of appeal from this Tribunal on matters of law. I invite his attention to an Act in which he has some expertise and under which he has practised at various times. In the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act he will see a somewhat similar position. Industrial tribunals are frequently in the same position. The way in which one enforces the law or, to put it another way, appeals on a matter of law, is by way of prerogative writ. There is nothing exceptional about the provisions of this Bill. Its provisions are exactly the same as one would find with respect to all types of administrative tribunals set up under Federal law. I frankly do not see why the honourable member is becoming so agitated on this point. This is normal, standard procedure - a procedure which commended itself to the previous Government of which he was a prominent member. 
Prior to 1956, and before the boilermakers case with all its ramifications, in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act there was provision for the appellate tribunal - the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration - to direct a conciliation commissioner on a matter of law. There were such appeals. The previous Government introduced this provision. It will also be seen, as a matter of historical record, that it dropped this provision because it did not work and its validity was, to say the least, highly questionable. One thing is certain and that is that if there is to be a review on a matter of law it could not be by this Tribunal because that would be in the very teeth of the boilermakers case. 
A much more fundamental matter was raised in this debate by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who attempted to scandalise the Government and the authors of this Bill. In many debates he insists on trying to use a very broad brush which is watered, as it were, by a bucket of tar or mud. He attempts increasingly to smear people. I do not think that that is desirable, particularly when we are speaking about the appointment of persons to a very high and responsible office. Those who are to be charged with the responsibility of administering this law will occupy most important positions which require the exercise of great responsibility. I have had some experience of appearing before and arguing with members of various tribunals for about 22 years. In that period I have had the opportunity and the duty to appear before persons who were appointed in New South Wales by Labor governments and Liberal governments and in the Commonwealth sphere by Liberal governments and Labor governments. I can say without doubt that the political complexion of those who made the appointments made not one scrap of difference. I challenge the honourable member for Mackellar, who now seeks to cast doubts in anticipation of likely appointments, to nominate a case from the past where a person performing judicial or quasi-judicial functions under any law of the Commonwealth or of a State has so disgraced his office as to carry out, as it were, the obligations of political patronage. I know of no such case. The reason, of course, is that there is a great tradition in Australia which the great majority of people are prepared to carry out. Those who are not prepared to carry out the tradition of impartiality and fairness are usually well known and are rarely if ever - and never to my knowledge - appointed to such positions. 
My experience has been that whether a person who has been appointed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to any other industrial tribunal was appointed by a Labor government, whether he had a trade union background or an employer background, it made no difference. Indeed, some of those whom I regard as being the most favourable to the trade union cause came from employer circles. It may be that the honourable gentleman is worried about nothing, but when he attempts to smear by making his wild and unsustainable assertion that the Government is at the behest of a corrupt organisation one must wonder whether his contribution is even worth answering. However, the way he puts it is that there is some corrupt organisation directing the Government, so presumably it follows that any person appointed by the Government will be corrupt. Such a contention does no credit to him or any member of this Parliament who would listen to him without raising voice in protest. I object in the strongest terms to any member of this Parliament making such an assertion which is unsupportable having regard to either history or likely future events. 
I believe that when Australians go before the Governor-General or some other appropriate person to take an oath of office they are not perjuring themselves when they take the oath that they will carry out the law without fear or favour. I, for one, am prepared to believe them. If the honourable gentleman is prepared to say that there are Australian citizens who would perjure themselves and who would accept high office on a tribunal such as the Trade Practices Tribunal and would then deliberately prostitute that office, he has an obligation to stand now and name in advance those persons so that if they are to be appointed the Government will be able to have the benefit of his knowledge. If he does not have any such information - I seriously suspect that he does not have it - he should be man enough to withdraw the imputation that those who will be appointed to this tribunal are in that category. In other words, I am appealing to him to act like a gentleman and to act with responsibility in respect of this important legislation. 
This is truly a remarkable matter of public importance. Even more remarkable have been the 2 speeches made in support of it. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  put 2 errors of fact as the highlight of his speech. Not wishing to fall into the same trap, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  spent his time saying nothing. It is truly remarkable, of course, that this matter should be raised this morning. One would be pardoned for thinking that it is the idea of some agent provocateur designed to inhibit a solution of the present building trades dispute, because the matter is raised in this House not yesterday, not tomorrow, not last week but on the very morning that conferences between the trade unions and the employers in the building industry are reaching their most critical stage. The people who claim to be in favour of industrial peace and want to see a period of industrial tranquillity initiate a debate on a matter of public importance designed to exacerbate the present difficulty, and for that they may claim no credit. 
It is interesting that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who quite rightly is recognised as a great statesman in this place, is not the only one who blames employers for industrial disputes. Another person who makes statements from time to time with great authority about industrial matters said on 7 February this year that many industrial disputes occurred because of management's failure to establish adequate consultation with employees. That gentleman said that an analysis of strikes revealed that about 30 per cent were directly concerned with the managerial policies of employers. He said that this figure was higher than that of comparable countries in the Western world. 
The gentleman who said that was none other than the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  Apparently this is another area of conflict between him and the honourable member for Wannon. That statement was made at the School of Business Administration in February this year and was reported in the 'Australian' newspaper of 7 February this year. So here again we hear the 2 voices of the Opposition, which are almost as blatant as its double standards and its twofaced attitude. 
What the honourable member for Wannon did was make a speech which contained 2 fundamental errors. First of all, he claimed that it was false for the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  to claim that there was a lockout. He rationalised his claim by saying that the Builders Labourers Federation had agreed only to a conditional and partial resumption of work. Nobody is talking about the Builders Labourers Federation. That is only one side of it. Tradesmen, such as members of the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union, the Building Workers Industrial Union and the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners, have never been on strike, and they have been locked out. Of course, the honourable gentleman politely ignores that because his instructions from his rich and powerful friends are to leave it out. In other words, that is where the real guilt lies. The builders locked out men who had never been on strike and who had never expressed any intention of going on strike. But, in their callous and cynical way and wishing to extend this dispute, the builders locked them out. The honourable member for Wannon excuses all of that or simply overlooks it. 

 His other major error was to criticise the Minister for Housing for not taking some steps, through the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, to have the workers penalised. He should know that the Minister for Housing has no right at all in that field. The industrial relationship exists between the employees and the contractors. The relationship between the Government or the Minister and the contractors is one of common law and not one pursuant to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. If we take out those 2 things, what has the honourable member said? 
I am indebted to the honourable member. He is absolutely right. The honourable member for Wannon has said nothing - except for one thing. He referred to the violence which has occurred in the building industry. He said that it had been going on for a long time. I agree with him completely. In fact, there has been a significant and very substantial removal of violence from the building industry this year. It was last year that the violence occurred in the building industry. One could be pardoned for asking what the honourable member did about it. The answer is nothing. What did his friend,  Sir Robert  Askin, do about it? The answer is nothing. The New South Wales police turned their backs on pleas for protection made by both workers and employers. The honourable member for Wannon has the nerve to come into this House and attack Ministers of this Government. The Opposition's concept, which it wants to foist upon this Government, is that industrial battles should be fought in somebody else's back yard. Members of the Master Builders Association have Government contracts, and the Government is entitled - indeed, obliged - to ensure that those contracts are honoured. It is interesting to note that the principal party to this dispute refused to debate the issue with the Minister for Housing on the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission television program 'This Day Tonight' on 7 November. 
The next attack relates to the power dispute. In spite of all the debate which occurred, it is still claimed that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  was in some way responsible for that dispute. There are none so blind as those who refuse to see. Honourable gentlemen opposite are in that position. 
I have my glasses on. The honourable member should get himself a pair that are not so red tinted, so that he can see what the facts are without being blinded by prejudice. He should look at the world in terms of reality and not just the twisted way he wants it to appear. The Minister for Minerals and Energy sought to protect and did protect the Commonwealth from having put at its doorstep a dispute which was manufactured by the New South Wales Government. He refused to be put into the position of having strike breakers in the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority working under the conditions that the strikers were trying to obtain. Those are facts which the honourable gentleman cannot ignore. Let me remind him that the Prime Minister of this country  (Mr Whitlam),  in a truly statesmanlike way, attempted to offer the facilities of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to facilitate a resumption of work in the power industry. But the Premier of New South Wales threw out the offer. He refused to give it even cursory consideration. He rejected it out of hand because he did not want a settlement. 
The duplicity and double standards applied by the Opposition in these cases have to be seen to be believed. Last night the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said that he would support a strike on safety issues. He suggested that officers who are skilled in the particular industry should be attached to the Commission so that they could go to the place and make an interim determination on safety issues. That is a very sensible suggestion, and I congratulate the honourable member for making it. I just do not understand why he voted against provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which would have allowed exactly that to happen. Perhaps he will explain it at some other time. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  the Minister for Housing and the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  have acted with propriety. Nothing has been said in this debate which in any way accurately reflects on that propriety. The Minister for Housing was concerned that buildings worth $24m had been stopped, not because of a strike by employees but because of a lockout by members of the Master Builders Association. He also was confronted with the situation that buildings worth a further $27.5m were to be threatened because of the same situation. 
It ought to be realised by honourable members on both sides of this House that in industrial disputes reason is the ingredient of a solution. Ranting and raving by Opposition members seeking to gain cheap political advantage has never solved anything. When the Master Builders Association or any other large employer organisation decides to attack innocent people - people who are not involved in the dispute - and to throw them out of work, one must immediately question its motives. I believe that it is open to serious questioning as to whether this dispute has been provoked because of the shortage of building materials which were insufficient- 
Motion (by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I address a question to the Minister for Immigration. Does Australia discriminate in its advertising in relation to migration from any country, particularly from countries in Asia? If so, to what extent does this discrimination occur, and in what form? If there is no improper discrimination, will the Minister refute reports that Australia is engaging in such discrimination? 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  can be seen to be not opposed to this proposition from any deep principle. At least one would gather that from listening to his speech this afternoon.  His  criticism of the use of the word 'people' rather than 'electors' is indeed a very shallow criticism. He would know if he had read the Australian Constitution that section 24 already provides that in determining the number of members from each State the quota shall be determined by the number of people, not electors. So if such an amendment were to be made, the Bill would be inconsistent with section 24. I will return to that point a little later. The Leader of the Opposition criticised the Bill on another ground. He said that it would establish authoritarianism in Canberra. He seeks to deny this Parliament the right to ask the Australian people to determine whether individual citizens' rights should be guaranteed in respect of the election of members of all parliaments throughout Australia. In my view, the people will have their say and they will make the ultimate decision. 
This Bill is a further example of the Whitlam Government's determination to ensure that the will of the people is supreme. On no occasion since Federation have the Australian people been given such a clear opportunity to gain effective and permanent control of the Australian Parliament. It will also give the Australian people the first opportunity since colonial days to end the cynical manipulation of political power in certain of the States. It is a basic, fundamental principle of democracy that all people must be regarded as equal and must be treated as equal. The concept of equality is the distinguishing feature of a democratic society. To allow for discrimination against citizens on the basis of their wealth, colour, creed or race would outrage the ethical standards of our community. In my view, it is equally outrageous to discriminate against citizens on the basis of having more or less representation depending on their place of residence. Electoral boundaries should be drawn to suit the convenience and to guarantee the rights of citizens, not to allow the manipulation of political power that we have seen in this country in the past. 
The present position is a serious abuse of what was intended by those who drafted the Australian Constitution. It was clearly intended that, as far as practicable, electorates should have equal numbers of people resident within the respective boundaries. The variation allowed by the original Electoral Act was intended to meet quite exceptional circumstances. It was intended to cater for those who lived in isolated places. An examination of the reported debates in the Parliament discloses that a clear distinction was drawn between the population living in true rural circumstances and those living in country towns. The argument in support of there being a variation in the quota was related to the lack of capacity of those living in isolated places adequately to communicate with one another and indeed to exercise the right to vote at all. 
In speaking in support of the Electoral Bill on 5 June 1902  Sir William  Lyne said: 
The principle of the Bill is equal representation. If the number of electors exceeds 1,000 more or less, the reason for not adhering to the quota must be stated. 
That is the position that was envisaged at the start. In Opposition the then honourable member for Gippsland,  Mr McLean,  complained that citizens in country areas had to travel long distances in order to vote. He claimed that one of the consequences was that many citizens in country areas were unable to exercise their right to vote. He also claimed as another consequence that one person scarcely knew the views of his next neighbour. It can therefore be seen that the advocates of electoral inequality have been present since the first days of the Australian nation. The speeches are the same; only the names of the personnel have been changed. 
It is an argument consistent with the horse and buggy era. It is a relic of the days when communications were either poor or nonexistent, when there was no radio or television, when the mails were slow and irregular and when means of transport were expensive, irregular or unavailable. None of these factors exists today. The excuse or alleged justification for maintaining the inequality in electoral boundaries no longer exists. The only reason for a continuation of the present discrimination in respect of electoral representation is the cynical wish to obtain -and retain improper minority control of certain electorates. The Australian Constitution is at present severely lacking in respect of control by the people over Parliament. So many of those who speak about outside control by faceless men and so on are now resisting putting the control of this Parliament into the hands of the people themselves. 
Section 24 of the Constitution really intends that, subject to each State of the Commonwealth having a minimum of 5 members, the members elected from each State shall be in proportion to the number of persons resident in the particular State. In other words, it provides for equality of the value of votes as between the States. One vote one value was clearly intended. It is my argument that the concept as between State representation in this Parliament is on the basis of one vote one value. Yet the apologists - particularly the Australian Country Party - argue consistently that, that having been laid down by the Australian Constitution, they can justify having inequality of voting within those State boundaries. The present system with the 20 per cent variation above or below in electoral quotas makes a farce of the concept of equality of voting as between the various States. 
The shameful manipulation, the cynical gerrymander, arose because it was left to the Parliament to work out the electoral divisions within each State. In other words, the drafters of the Constitution trusted politicians. What this Government seeks to do is put future gerrymander beyond the reach of cynical politicians who may from time to time, by electoral accident, have the majority in this House. It is a denial of logic to suggest that, having determined that the number of members elected from each State should be determined by equal value of votes, the electoral divisions within the States should be determined on a different basis. There are many examples of gerrymander in certain States. New South Wales and Queensland are outstanding examples. Indeed, New South Wales has a redistribution before every election; at least that has been the pattern in recent years. 
In June this year the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  made a statement which was reported in the Brisbane Courier-Mail' in which he agreed with a suggestion that State governments had jockeyed the electoral laws. The newspaper article states: 
Speaking in an open-line radio program, he said it had been done in all States over the last 50 years. I don't approve of it', he said. 
Let us see whether the Leader of the Country Party is now prepared to back up his earlier statement and support this proposition to give the Australian people the opportunity to express their views. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in introducing this legislation, showed many discrepancies in State electoral populations. The people have a right to have a say on this matter. They have a right to be heard. They have a right to decide. 
Unscrupulous opportunism by certain politicians determined to maintain minority rule must be subject to the scrutiny of the people. Unprincipled political misdealings must be terminated. Some apportionments of electorates are insidious and infamous. No amount of cunning or attempt to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian electorate will succeed in deceiving the Australian people on this occasion. Fair play is the cornerstone of the concept of the Australian way of life. The pettifogging arguments that have been advanced so far against this far-reaching and basic proposition will not convince the Australian people that they should not take the steps which will put the gerrymandering of electorates beyond the reach of those who seek a political advantage. The Australian people are tired of being manipulated. One vote one value is a principle which must be upheld. 
It has often been said by Opposition spokesmen over the years that the party which has received the majority vote has always been in government in Australia. On 3 occasions in the last decade the Australian Labor Party has received substantially more votes than the Liberal-Country Party candidates but did not have a majority of seats in this House. In 1954 the Australian Labor Party received just over 50 per cent of the votes. The LiberalCountry Parties received 47 per cent but they formed the government. In 1961 the Australian Labor Party received about 48 per cent of the vote. The Liberal-Country Parties received less than 42 per cent of the vote, but they formed the government. In 1969 the Australian Labor Party received 47 per cent of the vote. The Liberal-Country Parties received 43 per cent and again formed the government. Is it any wonder that they oppose giving to the Australian people the right to have a say as to whether there should be equal representation, whether there should be upheld in this country the concept of one vote having equal value to another. There is no room for electoral discrimination in this country. 
There is also a provision in this Bill which seeks to give to the High Court of Australia power of original jurisdiction, power to exercise a control over manipulation of Australian electorates, a power which will be a safeguard, a sentinel, on behalf of the Australian people. Of course, the Opposition is opposed to it because it has seen what has happened in the United States where the United States Supreme Court has cracked down hard against the sort of electoral gerrymander which has been per petrated in this country both in respect of this House and in certain of the States over the past generation. 
No matter how much the Leader of the Australian Country Party may try to divert this debate and no matter how much the Leader of the Opposition may try to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian people and, by pettifogging arguments, try to confuse the issue, the Australian people will not be fooled. No matter what obstructionist tactics are adopted by the Liberal-Country Party in this House, the Constitution provides that the matter can still go before the Australian people. It will go before the Australian people and they will have their say. In my view there is no doubt as to what that say will be. I certainly support the proposition. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. During the recent New South Wales State elections, in the electoral district of Coogee a number of citizens who applied for postal ballot papers did not receive them, despite the assurance by electoral officials that they were posted. As there is a strong possibilty that certain ballot papers have been either lost or stolen in the post, will the Postmaster-General institute an immediate inquiry into this matter in order to ascertain whether the ballot papers were ever posted and/or whether there was any interference with the mail in order to deprive electors from exercising their right to vote in what is a very close election? 

 Mi LIONEL TOWEN - This is my first knowledge of this matter. I noticed in the course of the recent New South Wales State elections that there was some reference in other electorates to the fact that the applications had not been received in time, even though they allegedly had been posted some 5 or 6 days before, and there was a further suggestion that in many cases it was too late to send out the voting papers. Coogee is a very important electorate because the balance is so fine. I promise the honourable member, as a matter of urgency that I will have an investigation commenced this day, and I will report further to him and the House. 
' DEFENCE 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. Has the easy visitor system been generally suspended? If so, will the Minister reconsider the suspension in view of the advantages of the system in facilitating family visits? Particularly, will the Minister indicate how many people abuse the system, which has led to the suspension? 
I have always held the view that when members of Parliament speak in this place they should first of all make certain that there is at least some basis of fact or reality in any assertion they wish to make. I have also always held the view that when there is an industrial dispute which affects the convenience of the general public, there is an onus or responsibility on persons such as members of Parliament to make suggestions and to use their best efforts to try to resolve that situation rather than try to exacerbate difficult situations already existing. Such cannot be said for the Opposition this afternoon. The time of this Parliament has been taken up with the discussion of a matter of public importance which can be described only as containing a cheap barrage of squitter 
What has been said so far? We have seen honourable members opposite display their irresponsibility and advance an argument which is both illogical and contradictory. On the one hand, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  said that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  should be condemned because of his incompetence in incurring the hostility of the unions. In the very next breath he said that the Postmaster-General is guilty of a complete and cowardly capitulation to union demands. Then the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  said that the PostmasterGeneral had sold out to militant unions. Which of the accusations does the Opposition really mean, that he has incurred the hostility of some unions because he has not agreed to every claim, or the other charge made against him that he has meekly laid down in front of every claim that was made irrespective of its merits? The honourable member for Wannon aspires to great heights as the prospective Minister for Labour. I understand that he is known as the shadow Minister for Labour. On this afternoon's performance he is not a Minister for Labour's shadow.  His  performance was very poor indeed. 
Let us look at the industrial record of the Post Office in the last year, 1973. The number of stoppages represent about one-eighth of the national average. That is not a bad record. But the envy and jealousy of the Opposition comes out. It was displayed when the honourable member for Wannon criticised the Postmaster-General, indeed I think almost condemned him, because he was invited by the Australian Postal Workers Union to march with the unionists in the last Sydney Labour Day procession - a great honour indeed. The Postmaster-General is not a member of that union. It was a very unusual and singular honour bestowed on him that the men who work in the Post Office should ask him to march with them on that day. If one contrasts that with what occurred previously one gets some remarkable comparisons. For example, under the present POSt.masterGeneral a deal of confidence is displayed between the trade unionists who work in the Post Office and himself. There is a ready and quick access in terms of communication. A sharp reduction has occurred in the number of industrial disputes in the Post Office during 1973. In fact, in the 'Redfern Mail Exchange, which was notorious for bad industrial relations, no stoppages at all occurred during that period. The Post Office as a whole in that period had the smallest amount of industrial unrest for the last 20 years. 
Let us examine what happened previously in relation to industrial unrest in the Post Office. In 1968 there was a dispute and 11,000 men walked off the job. What was the answer of the previous Government to this problem? The Government of 1968, in which the honourable member for Wannon had a part to play, had an instant and brilliant solution. It dismissed or suspended all of the men. That is one way tq overcome the problems - sack or dismiss the workers so that there are no more employees and therefore in some way the problem does not exist. Of course, the men to whom I have referred were subsequently reinstated. That is an indication of the level of ability which the previous Government had in settling disputes. The attitude of the previous Government if men went on strike or stopped work, was to suspend them or dismiss them from service. 
From December 1971 to February 1972 - a period of 3 months - the previous Government stood by like stuffed goslings and watched a complete ban on the installation and maintenance of all business telephones. What did the previous Government do about that ban? It let nature take its course. That is what it did about that ban. The previous Government had no answer to the problem and it waited, hoped and possibly prayed that in some way the matter could be resolved. Ultimately it was resolved. But for 3 months no business telephones were maintained and no business telephones were installed. Members of the 
Opposition have the gall, the colossal nerve, to stand in this place and seek to have the Postmaster-General condemned. The Postmaster-General has achieved the smallest rate of industrial dispute for 20 years and has not had a single dispute in one of the most notorious places for bad industrial relations that this country has seen. 
The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  then sought to criticise the Postmaster-General because he said that he did not know the industrial conditions under which postal workers were employed. The honourable member for Cowper said that in all other awards there is some provision for penalty rates oh Saturdays. For the benefit of the honourable member for Cowper, I point out that there is provision also in the Public Service determinations - which, incidentally, cover the Post Office - for penalty rates on Saturdays. What the previous Government did, of course, was to create a kind of industrial apartheid. It had one group being paid overtime for working on Saturdays - that is the group which worked a 5-day week plus overtime^ - while another group was being paid on a 5i-day week basis and receiving merely a loading for Saturday work. Is it any wonder that this position eventually erupted and that those people who were receiving the loading said: 'We just will not work on Saturdays because it is not worth it'. 
Let us examine the positive side of the matter. I am sure that every honourable member in this House agrees that the Post Office is not an easy institution to administer and its services are not easy to provide. This is so because a service needs to be spread over a very large area with a very uneven distribution of population. It should be remembered at all times that Australia has approximately the same land mass as the United States of America but it has approximately 6 per cent of the population that the United States has. That population is concentrated in the southeast corner of this vast land. Of course there will be difficulties and of course there will be problems in trying to give an efficient, uptodate, modern service in such circumstances. The Post Office does not receive the full public support it deserves. How often have honourable members gone to a public telephone box to see it inoperable, smashed by vandals, at a cost of approximately $5m every year? 
The long delays in mail deliveries which occurred in the past have been largely over come. .The service is working better, delays have been reduced and the innovation of decentralised mail sorting facilities has immeasurably improved the postal service in Australia. What did the Opposition Parties do when they were in Government? They had no answer to postal problems. I think it is significant that in all of the criticism that members of the Opposition have atempted to level at the Postmaster-General today not one word was spoken about the improved services which the Postmaster-General has achieved during his 12 short months of office. So jar the criticism has been made on the basis that the Postmaster-General either gives in too quickly to the unions or, alternatively, does not 'give in to the unions at all. 
The other point to remember is that the amount of mail handled by the Australian Post Office during 1973 increased by approximately 15 per cent. It is significant that there was no increase in postal staff and no significant increase in the number of hours worked. In other words, the Postmaster-General has been able to get such co-operation from the employees of the Australian Post Office that they have been able to process 15 per cent more mail, without any additional assistance, thereby establishing the fact that they are working harder, better, and certainly more efficiently, than they did under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It is no wonder, in such circumstances, that the attack on the Postmaster-General should be so illogical, contradictory and irresponsible. There are no facts to support the proposition before the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
 I move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen be agreed to: 
The people of Singapore have made it clear through their Prime Minister that they regard the present Australian Government as a friend and the jealousy and envy of my friend, the honourable member for Angas, at that situation cannot be disguised. One of the great things that this Government has done has been to set out to establish real equality of opportunity. This has been a cornerstone of the Government's policy. In the field of education, whether one looks at primary, secondary, tertiary or technical education, one can see a conscious approach and policy designed to ensure that the facilities provided by this great nation will be available to all. It will not be decided only on the question of income or on the question of social capacity but also on the question of physical ability because special steps have been taken and will continue to be taken to provide for the handicapped. 
Efforts have been made to eliminate discrimination, particularly in the field of employ- ment, in the Government's own service and in employment generally, whether discrimination be based on race, colour, sex or any other matter. Also, in respect of equal pay, the Australian Government has put aside the shibboleths of the past and has acted. In the field of wages and incomes, the Government has supported consistently the highest possible minimum wage so that there should be a fair and reasonable return for labour. In respect of migrants, the effort has been singularly attractive. Firstly, we see a conscious effort on the part of this Government, which was remarkably absent with previous .governments, to eliminate the exploitation of migrant employees, to overcome the question of the lack of language and the exploitation which occurs in terms of contracts and agreements because of lack of language knowledge. It must be remembered that Australia has received 3.1 million migrants since the end of the last war. Australia has the largest intake of foreign persons and has the largest foreign-born work force in the world, except for one nation, Israel. 
In the field of social justice, the record has been remarkable. In terms of industrial relations, which I head broadly under social justice, I draw the attention of this House to a salient fact. Much has been said about an alleged increase in the rate of strikes during 1973. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that during 1973, 30 per cent fewer employees went on strike than went on strike during 1972. This is very significant. The hours of work performed were immeasurably higher. Many more jobs were created during 1973. Indeed, about 3 times as many jobs were created and filled during 1973 as were created during 1972. Better machinery for settling industrial disputes has been prepared and this Government has made it a clear policy that it will approach the industrial tribunals with its view through the front door. That singles out this Government quite distinctly from the attitude of the previous Government which said almost nothing in the front door but was always rattling on the back door, trying to put its view before industrial tribunals. 
The Government has also set out to establish real co-operation between employers and employees. Already the Government has established the Industrial Peace Conference with the Minister for Labour  (Mr Cameron)  and under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice 
Moore. The Opposition claims that this Government has caused inflation. Already the Government has taken a number of significant steps, including the reduction of tariffs, the revaluation of the currency, the establishment of prices justification machinery and the like. But what is the attitude of the Opposition? The Opposition's attitude is: 'Let us reduce Government spending1. That is one proposition. Every item for increased Government expenditure which came before this House during last year was either supported or a move was made to increase it further. If that was not the case, where the Government sought to reduce Government expenditure in terms of defence and subsidies, the Opposition opposed it in every single case. Their hypocrisy is exposed for the people of Australia to see. What was the other great solution of the Opposition? It was to freeze wages and prices. But when the Government wished to put to the people a proposition which would give this Parliament power just to consider that proposition, the Opposition opposed it. Was ever an Opposition in greater disarray? 
In terms of pensions, the Government has carried out its promise. The married couple age pension is now about 22 per cent of average weekly earnings. It is getting very close to the 25 per cent that was promised by this Government prior to the last election. I remind honourable members that this has been achieved after only one year. The first step has been taken in a significant way to eliminate the means test. The Australian assistance plan has been established. This involves a move to decentralise power and to decentralise assistance and to get community involvement in what is a true community responsibility. 
Of course, there are many pensions and benefits which are now paid to people who previously did not qualify under the coldhearted, aloof previous Government. A health plan has been presented. Good health for all has been the cornerstone of this Government's policy in this area. In terms of home ownership the Government indicated in the Speech read by  Her  Majesty that tax rebates on interest paid on homes will be brought forward in the very near future. It has also been the Government's policy to continue to provide housing for the underprivileged of this country. 
In the field of integrity one could go on for a long time. Frank and open discussion of major issues has been the norm in this Parlia ment. Development of the concept that people have rights which deserve no less protection than property has also been a radical approach brought by this Government, radical only in that it conflicts hard with the conservative line of the previous Government The promises which have been made have been either carried out or will be carried out. Electoral reform has been promised on 2 broad grounds - equality of voting rights for all our citizens and the need to disclose funds and to say from where the money is coming. It is also proposed to limit the amount of money spent in election campaigns so that no person because of wealth will have an advantage over a person who has not been so fortunate. 
In terms of development of economic resources we have seen a true rationalisation, or an attempt to make a true rationalisation, of our productive capacity. Bold ventures have been undertaken. The Government has now put in train steps to ensure that unnecessary and avoidable hardship is not created as a result of those steps. Manpower policy is being developed. What a strange thing it is that efforts should at last be made in this country to establish a manpower policy. A retraining program is being developed to ensure personal security in employment. One could go on in this way for a long time. Foreign takeovers have been regulated. 
The Australian citizens who look at their Government will see confidence in the future. They will see great development occurring both economically and socially. Health and recreation are as important to this Government as investment and employment. The Government is concerned to achieve the greatest possible degree of human happiness, peace and contentment for the Australian people. This was our charter; this is now the business that we are about. 
Is the Minister for Labour aware that as a result of a court room disturbance this morning the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has adjourned the hearing of claims for increases in the minimum wage and other wages and salaries? Will this action result in wage and salary earners losing money because of this avoidable delay? Are there any steps which can be taken to prevent any further disruption of the hearing of these legitimate claims? Will the Government use its best efforts to ensure that the case is finalised in the shortest possible time, thereby preventing injustice to wage earners, particularly those who are dependent on the minimum wage? 
1 shall be brief. I would not have spoken but for some of the outrageous comments made during this debate by members opposite with an air of authority which would have done credit to people who know what they are talking about. The need to distribute the surplus from the Superannuation Fund is a clear indictment of those who now sit opposite and who previously for up to 23 years sat on the Government side of the House. Simply put, the Fund has been charging too high a contribution for the benefits which have been available to contributors. 
For the last 7 years. The previous Government diddled and dawdled and would not make the necessary adjustments to pensions as they became due. As my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  said, it is hoped that a new superannuation scheme will be introduced in the immediate future. That scheme, once introduced, should obviate the need for future disbursements of this kind, lt may be necessary to make one further disbursement in order to cater for the changeover period. The over-charging which has occurred for so many years has meant a great deal of hardship to many public servants, par- ticularly those who started in the Public Service on low incomes and finished on moderate to middle incomes. The result has been that many employees in their late fifties feared to get a wage increase. They were terrified of a wage increase because, in some cases, it meant that they took home less pay. After tax was taken out and the increased cost of taking up additional superannuation units was deducted there was less in the pay packet than before the wage increase. 
The proposed disbursement will be done as quickly as possible. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made it clear that no avoidable delay will occur. However some 200,000 separate calculations must be made and the money has to be distributed among all employees and pensioners. The new scheme will come in without undue delay. The Treasurer announced this week that 2 independent actuaries had been engaged to check the new scheme. They are Professor Pollard and  Mr Melville.  Professor Pollard will be recalled as the person who drew up the original report which led to the proposed new scheme. The 1 July is the date which many of us hope will be the day on which the new scheme comes into effect. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  came into this place this afternoon with an outrageous proposition which he thought would be of great benefit. He said to this House in all seriousness that what we should do is follow the lead of the South Australian scheme which he said, and I take his word for this, includes a provision whereby pensions are adjusted by 3 per cent per annum. He must have been asleep for the greater part of last year because this Government introduced legislation last year to adjust Commonwealth superannuation pensions in accordance with consumer price index movements. The Government he supported, that old tired worn out Government that got the sack by the Australian community in December 1972, had a marvellous scheme which used to adjust pensions on what it called a notional basis. That is a word which in this context means: 'Your guess is as good as mine'. But it used to do it on what it thought would be a regular basis. In other words, whenever somebody thought of it, and that was every 4 or 5 years. In the inflationary situation that we experienced under the previous Government that meant severe hardship. It also meant that instead of the pensioners getting a benefit from this Fund they were denied the benefit and therefore the surplus has built up over the years. The surplus is there to be distributed because the contributors to the Fund did not get the amounts to which they were entitled. 1 mentioned earlier that some wage earners were scared of receiving a salary increase because of this difficulty and I remind this House that some contributors under this old scheme, this inequitable scheme which is about to be thrown out by this Government to give public servants a new deal, were paying up to 40 per cent of their wages as contributions for superannuation compared with the normal figure in private employment to which previous speakers on the Opposition side have referred of about 5 per cent in addition to an employer contribution of 10 per cent and in some cases higher than that. I remind honourable members opposite that the lump sum payments for some of the tall poppies in private industry amount to SI 00,000 and $150,000, 95 per cent of which is tax free. Under the scheme fostered by the previous Government many people who at present are employed in the Australian Public Service are denied the right to be in this Fund. Some of them are in the Provident Fund. Some of them are in nothing. Those who are admitted to the Provident Fund are at a distinct disadvantage compared with those who are members of the Superannuation Fund. This causes friction. It has caused inequities and of course the Opposition saw nothing wrong with that when it was in government. 
I do not mind taking another minute to relieve the honourable member's dreadful ignorance. Those people are in that fund because the restrictive rules and schemes which your Party imposed will not allow them to join the Superannuation Fund. A clerk who uses his right hand and who has a crippled left arm is not allowed into the Superannuation Fund. A person with some affliction who happens to get through the stringent admission tests to the Public Service cannot get into that Fund. A person who suffers bad health is in the Provident Fund. I remind the honourable gentleman of that. 
Because your Party refused to amend the scheme in accordance with modern day concepts. The honourable member for North Sydney lives in a past generation and every so often he tries to drag himself up to date. He cannot recognise that the era about which he is speaking was an era when very few people in this community had the benefit of superannuation. In fact, at that time it was a privilege almost exclusively the preserve of those who worked for government and public organisations. Today the position has changed. Today many hundreds of thousands of employees are members of superannuation schemes. Let me remind the honourable member for North Sydney who now shows mock concern for the Australian public servant that the other great thing that his Government did for the public servants in the field of superannuation was to introduce one of the most inequitable schemes imaginable - the socalled non-contributory unit which was available only to those who elected to retire at age 65 and those who for one reason or another found it necessary to retire at age 60 and had to fix their pension on that basis were denied any benefit from that so-called and much vaunted improvement. 
The other anomaly which has caused some of this surplus has been the inability of single mothers in some States to have their dependant children included as beneficiaries under the scheme. For example, in Victoria the law allows single mothers to adopt their little children and they then become beneficiaries. But in that State of great enlightenment and progress, Queensland, from which we have heard much in the last day or so about enlightenment, we find that dependant children cannot become beneficiaries. We find that the child must have a mark on it for life and that in the event of the death of the child's mother on whom it could be completely dependent it is denied, under the previous Government's miserable scheme, the benefit for which his or her mother has paid out of her salary - in many cases a payment which could not be afforded. I da not want to belabour the issue but I was stirred into speaking in this debate because of the misleading propaganda and some of the quite inaccurate statements which have been made by members of the Opposition during the course of this debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The opposition to this Bill has been, predictably, stated in cliches and without any logic or reason. In fact, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  in an attempt to find some sort of a  -  (Quorum formed). The honourable member for Curtin is opposed to the legislation, so he would have this House believe, on the ground that it represents socialism and nationalisation - whatever those terms mean. It is very significant that members of the Opposition parties in this Parliament continually talk about this Government's policies as representing socialism and nationalisation, but they never have the courage to define the terms. What do they mean by socialism and nationalisation? Does it mean that they are opposed to subsidies being paid to industries? Does it mean that they are opposed to tariff protection of Australian industry? Is that socialism? Is that nationalisation? Or is it that they are still in the 19th century in their political philosophy? 
Are honourable members opposite opposed to the payment of a pension to old people who are disadvantaged? Are they against the principles of government financed education? Are they against medical and hospital schemes run by the Australian Government? I think that the answer truly is yes, they are, but they do not have the intestinal fortitude to stand up and say so. Would they, in the name of anti-nationalisation and their implacable opposition to socialism, sell the rail- ways, the Post Office and electricity generation and reticulation undertakings? I believe that there is so much humbug and hypocrisy in their argument that it does not really deserve an answer. 
In the short time available to me I propose to ask this House to look at what is involved in this legislation. The real fact of the matter is that foreign investors operating in Australia are calling the tune for those unfortunate honourable members opposite. They are little puppets dancing to the tune of the international financial institutions. They have no minds of their own. They will do as they are told in here, and their colleagues will do as they are told in the Senate later this week. I feel great regret that this House and this Parliament have so many members who are not allowed to speak their own minds. These are the people who are controlled by the outside influences in this nation. 
The fact of the matter is that whether the Opposition likes it or not, or whether a majority of people in another place like it or not, Australian citizens - the residents of this great free land - will not become tenants in their own homes. Australian belongs to Australians, and in spite of 23 years of attempt so far, it has not gone beyond repair; so that the whole economy is not yet controlled by international and foreign interests. Australian industry must and will be controlled by Australian interests. The Australian Government will not allow the situation to develop in this country, as it has developed in Latin America and in some parts of Africa- 
And particularly in Canada, as I am reminded by the honourable member for Adelaide, where in fact the minimal amount of capital that has been invested for the so-called development of those countries has already been taken out two and three times over. We should learn from the experience of other countries which have fallen for the carrot in front of the donkey's nose. Of course, in the last 23 years there have been plenty of carrots and plenty of donkeys following along chasing the carrots. Of course, at this stage we do not know what other benefits have been received, but when the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  gets his far sighted legislation through this Parliament, we will know. In the future when there has to be disclosure of funds for the public to see, we will know the reason why every time there is an attack on the multi-national corporations members of the Opposition jump like so many puppets and say: 'No, no, no'. They say: 'Do not interfere with development'. What they really mean is: Do not interfere with the profits of foreign investors. The Opposition will not interfere with the right of foreign investors to exploit this country'. The Minister for Overseas Trade pointed out this evening that only 15 per cent - a miserable 15 per cent - of all Australian wage and salary earners own shares in the great industrial and commercial enterprises of this country. That 15 per cent own a miserable 3 per cent of the value of the shareholding, and 97 per cent of the shares and the productive wealth of this country is owned by people who are not employees themselves. I believe that this is a very serious situation. It is a situation which demands correction - those who oppose it do so at their peril because the Australian people, the highest judge in the community, will judge harshly. I have no doubt that the Opposition will be judged by that jury in the near future and that judgment will be harsh. Members of the Opposition will then see the error of their ways as they sit back in their enforced retirement to cogitate about what they have done. 
When this legislation is finally adopted by this Parliament, which will probably be after the double dissolution and after this Government is returned with even a greater majority than it has now, the Government will be able to set out to establish in this country productivity consciousness about which for 23 long years the previous Government talked tout did nothing. This legislation is designed to bring to the Australian community a share, a say and an interest in the enterprises of this community. One of the great problems that we have as a national Government, and one that was inherited, is that there is no concern in our community about productivity. Increased productivity is a value that is frequently not seen. Unit style trust investment is not the answer. This form of investment has not been popular and has not been accepted by the Australian community. What this legislation seeks to do is to get community involvement in the great national enterprises of this country. 
Those who have read the Bill - and I doubt very much whether those members of the Opposition who have spoken in this debate have read it very carefully, if at all - will see that the Australian Industry Development Corporation is independent of government direction. The purpose of the Corporation is to preserve the national interest. It is an independent body. Such things as farmer co-operatives are possible under this legislation. There is a sudden quietness in cocky corner because members there have sold out the rural interests again. Dictated to by the foreign investor they are prepared to say 'no' to this legislation because it suits Esso, it suits the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, or it suits the oil companies and the mining interests. It is against the farmers' interest. But do they care? Certainly not. They will go along now and try to explain this away in some way or other. But let them explain away that they have taken away or are attempting to take away from the small farmer the method by which he can get Government assistance to invest in co-operatives and to develop co-operative ventures. Let them also explain to the small businessman that this proposal has the prospect of the development of new technology for Australian industry. Let them explain away why they are opposed to that. Let them tell the Australian worker why it is that they are opposed to legislation which will assist in the development of new managerial skills. But what did the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Curtin quote? They quoted those great democratic institutions - the private banks, the insurance companies-- 
I propose to the House for its Speaker,MrCope, and move: 
That the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  do take the Chair of this House as  Speaker. 
I support the proposition put forward by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and I rise very briefly to object to the sorts of remarks which have just been made and to the time wasting which is going on. Here is a proposition- 
I will tell the honourable member why I am talking. I am talking in order to raise an objection to the sort of farce to which we are being treated from the other side of the chamber. These Bills have been debated fully. What the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  had to say about the previous excursions and visits overseas by the Leader of this House was simply a time wasting exercise. He was trying to take up the time of this House so that he could then say: 'Look at the way in which time for debate has been limited'. This afternoon we saw the Opposition wasting time by drearily muddling through a debate on a matter of public importance. Then the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  engaged in time wasting activities. After all of this time wasting the Opposition then says: 'Look at the limited time we have left to debate these important measures'. Of course, the Government has a responsibility to get the legislation through. This is the third time that this legislation has been before the Parliament; it is the third time that the:e has been public debate in Parliament on these issues. 
The honourable member now says that this new Parliament is dealing with the legislation for the first time, but it has been debated publicly in the Parliament of Australia for 40 long hours, which is plenty of time even for my friend, the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, to understand it if he so wishes. Even he has a full understanding of the implications of this legislation, and every member of this Parliament understands what this legislation is about. Every honourable member is clear in his understanding that it is designed to bring more equity into representation in the national Parliament. All of this humbug which has pervaded the debate this evening does little credit to the Opposition. There has been ample time for debate. The question now is whether the legislation still has the support of this House. If there are new members who wish to speak no doubt we will see them rise in their places ready for debate. I doubt very much whether the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  or the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who have been mentioned as prospective speakers on this legislation, will speak. It will be interesting to see whether they do. A good test of the Opposition's sincerity will be whether those 2 honourable members are the first to rise and whether they are allowed by the Opposition to speak on this legislation. We will wait to see whether that occurs. I want merely to say that as one honourable member of this House I object to the time wasting which goes on here, which is followed by criticism of the inability of some honourable members to utilise available time to address themselves to this type of legislation. 
Question put. 
That the motion  (Mr Daly's)  be agreed to. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I refer him to the terms and conditions on which money is made available to the State governments for land commision programs. Has the Minister seen the statements by the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, to the effect that these financial arrangements impose excessive and usurious rates of interest? If so, is that -a correct assessment of the terms and conditions imposed by the Australian Government? 
The matter of public importance which has been brought on by the Opposition is in these terms: 
The Government's failure to establish a reasonable degree of industrial peace and the Government's failure to protect the Australian public from the effects of industrial disruption. 
Finding that a completely insupportable proposition, the first 2 Opposition speakers moved far away from the matter of public importance that they alleged in the terms I have just read. The speeches of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  might well be forwarded to every student of political science in this country because I believe it would be impossible to find a better example of an exercise in political arrogance, humbug and double talk than what they have put forward here this morning. During the whole time that they took wearying this House not one single suggestion was put forward as a possible solution to what they believe to be a matter of public importance. We did not see even a glimmer or have even a hint of a new policy on wages or a suggestion of a new policy on industrial relations. They simply stood before this Parliament, without speaking to the matter of public importance at all, and attempted to exacerbate the difficult industrial situation which exists in this community and in other similar communities throughout the world. 
I want to contrast that with the attitude that has been adopted by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It is never difficult to defend him against attacks, puerile as they may be, from the Opposition, because his record in the short time that he has been Minister for Labor and Immigration in this Parliament is, in my view, without parallel in the history of this Parliament. He has put forward amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which are designed to improve industrial relations, prevent strikes, and improve relations between the parties. Submissions for a new wages concept have been made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Nothing like that ever came from the Opposition when it was in government. The Minister has put forward a proposition for a training scheme, which has been overdue for at least a decade. He put forward this week the outline of a manpower policy and, above all, he has put forward a scheme which is designed to train trade union officials at all levels so that they may exercise their power with responsibility and skill, and with the motive of ensuring that the rights of employees shall be protected and the rights of the community will not be harmed. 
It is as well for this Parliament and for those who read the reports of this Parliament to realise that only a very limited power is given to the Australian Parliament pursuant to the Constitution to legislate in relation to industrial disputes. That power does not entitle the Government or this Parliament to legislate directly in respect of industrial matters; it may only establish machinery for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes. I hope that the current trend will continue, that is, that more emphasis will be placed on the prevention of disputes rather than on settlement. 
For 23 long, weary, frustrating years the Opposition sat on the Government side and during all that time it took not one faltering step to give proper emphasis to the prevention of industrial disputes. Its role was to echo the voice of the multinational corporations, of the large employers. Its role was to kick the worker, to criticise the unions and to exacerbate industrial disputes. Of course the previous Government was serving the interests of its rich and powerful friends. I look at the 2 honourable members who are responsible for this motion this morning - the honourable member for Wannon and the honourable member for Gippsland - lounging back in their comfortable seats. As I listened to them criticising the percentage increase given to some humble workers in this community I realised that farm incomes have increased at almost twice the rate of increase granted to some employees to whom they referred. It would be interesting if those 2 farmers disclosed their incomes to this Parliament and compared them with the 'mammoth' increase they complain about which has been asked for by the postal workers, people who receive a rate of pay which in some cases is barely enough to keep body and soul together, while these 2 honourable members from their rich pastoral properties stand here and criticise. They have received an increase probably two or three times as much as the postal workers have claimed yet they stand here and criticise this Government and the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Somebody receives a small increase - small in money terms - which they manipulate by talking about it in percentage terms. Is there any wonder, when this sort of attitude is adopted in the Parliament of Australia, that there are disputes and strikes about wage issues? 
Of course, those honourable members conveniently leave out of their proposition any reference to their friends in the State governments. After all, the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, must have the worst track record of any Premier in any State of Australia since Governor Phillip was here. He has the unenviable record of having provoked more strikes in more State enterprises than any of his predecessors have been able to do. The 2 honourable gentlemen opposite leave that to one side. They attempt to lump together all the stoppages, irrespective of whether the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has power to deal with them. What about the power dispute? Did they criticise their friend  Sir Robert  Askin? They made not one word of criticism. Did they criticise the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government over the avoidable disputes which have occurred in public transport in the New South Wales railways? Did they criticise the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government for its attitude to disputes in the building industry in that State - issues on which this Parliament is specifically excluded from legislating. What have they done about disputes relating to demarcation issues? They have frustrated every attempt made by this Government so far to pass legislation to remove that as a cause of industrial disputation. 
Those guilty men who sit opposite knew for years and years the problem in what is known as the Moore v. Doyle case. It was pointed out by trade unionists, by employers and by the Industrial Court itself. What did the Liberal Ministers for Labour do about it? They put their heads in the sand because it did not affect their rich and powerful friends and therefore it was of no concern to them. It has been left to this Government and the Minister for Labor to try to unravel that situation. A great deal of progress has been and is being made. Honourable members opposite do not give the Minister any credit for it. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Wannon utter one faltering, hesitant word of praise for the waterside workers in Melbourne because of a situation in which a dispute was obviated. But I ask the honourable gentleman: What about the thousands of other industrial disputes which are settled without strikes or stoppages? He paints a picture of rampant union activity. He tries to misrepresent the picture by saying that unions are irresponsible and that a strike wave is upon us but he ignores the thousands of cases in which disputes are settled before any strike or stoppage occurs. Perhaps the most ludicrous statement that even the honourable member for Wannon has ever made was in his statistical acrobatics when he came up with the suggestion that one in every ten in the work force has been on strike. Have honourable members ever heard any more ludicrous proposition? He said that if the figures are extended out it will be found that one in ten in the work force has been on strike. That is sheer and absolute nonsense in the extreme, and he knows it. Of course it is possible to manipulate figures but that manipulation of figures and statistics does nothing to correct the problem. 
This Government has a very good record. Certainly there have been strikes. There will always be strikes and stoppages. The job of this Parliament, as restricted by the Constitution, is to provide the means for the prevention and settlement of those disputes when they occur. That is its role. Its role is not to exacerbate problems. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that in the recent by-election for the electorate of Coogee in the New South Wales Parliament in which he played such a decisive role by waging a strong campaign and which resulted in an outstanding victory for the Australian Labor Party - it was not even close - there was a candidate representing the Nazi philosophy? Is the Prime Minister also aware that the Nazi candidate appeared on election day, 20 July, dressed as a Nazi storm-trooper complete with the swastika displayed on his arm? As this display caused serious distress to many residents and a continuation of similar displays will have the effect of reviving memories of horror and inhumanity unparalleled in history, will the Prime Minister examine the possibility of introducing legislation to prohibit the display of the swastika and the wearing of Nazi uniforms in public places? 
I found the contribution by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to be a very curious one indeed. He seems to have based his opposition or his excuse for his opposition on the quite obviously wrong premise that this Bill is in some way designed to weaken the operation of arbitration and conciliation in Australia. The plain fact of the matter is that that is simply not so. (Quorum formed) I want to assure the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  who called for the quorum, that he is not curtailing the time that I intended to spend on this Bill because I would not dream of spending 20 minutes of the time of this Parliament to answer such a farrago of nonsense as has been put forward in opposition to the Bill. 
It is absolutely ludicrous for the Opposition to suggest that this Bill will in any way weaken conciliation and arbitration. In fact, it is part of a comprehensive and integrated industrial relations policy. The Bill only complements policies which have been outlined by the Government. It seeks to fill a vacuum created by the real lack of industrial relations policies of past Liberal governments. It would be as well for honourable members to look at the chief objects of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Let me just recite to this House some of those objectives. There are 5 of them. The first one is to promote goodwill in industry. The second - and I emphasise that it is the second - objective is to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes. 
The third one is to provide a means for settling disputes not resolved by amicable" agreement. Yet the honourable member for Wannon, the prospective Minister for Labor if the Australian people should ever be so misled as to elect to office the Party he supports, says that the second objective of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is designed to destroy the system of conciliation. This Bill is designed wholly and solely to give expression to the second chief objective of the Act. That is a ludicrous proposition if ever I have heard one, and I am sure it will not appeal to this House. I am sure it will not appeal to any person outside this House, whether in the Senate or elsewhere. I am sure people will not be induced to vote against it on such a frivolous, flippant and ludicrous ground. 
It is very significant that this Bill should place emphasis on conciliation. In other words, it is designed to create a situation in which parties to industrial disputes will be more likely to reach agreement. The whole concept of the Australian system of settlement of industrial disputes is concerned with putting the emphasis on conciliation. The objectives of the Act, to which I have already referred, put conciliation before arbitration. The constitutional provision under which the Act is set up establishes conciliation before arbitration. And interestingly enough it also puts prevention of disputes before settlement of disputes. The honourable member for Wannon, new as he is to this area, obviously has not read the very many reports of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission going back over many years in which various Presidents of that body have recommended that more steps be taken to encourage conciliation with a view to settlement of industrial disputes. This Government, in its short term of office, has already taken several steps designed to improve industrial relations by having more efficient machinery available to the parties to disputes. 
The Opposition should not - I emphasise the words 'should not' - oppose the Government's proposals. The Opposition has no responsibility for industrial relations in this community. It has consistently blocked moves and attempts by this Government to get better and more efficient machinery with which to improve industrial relations. Having blocked those moves and those attempts to amend the procedures of our conciliation and arbitration system its members have had the gall to stand up in this place and to criticise the Government when industrial relations have appeared not to be as good as they should be. I might also add that they misquote figures, deliberately or otherwise. The honourable member for Wannon claimed last week that one in 5 members of the Australian work force had been on strike in the first quarter of this year. What a ludicrous proposition. He was misreading the statistics; he did not understand the basis of them. He does not understand that in some circumstances the same person can be on strike twice in a quarter and be counted as 2 separate strikers. Last night he cited the percentage of disputes involving demarcation as being 0.5 per cent, instead of 5 per cent. So his record is not too good. Nonetheless, the Opposition opposes this Government's proposals to streamline and to improve industrial relations and at the same time attacks the Government if industrial relations are not in good shape. 
The Opposition basically has no policy of its own. The Opposition policy is a collection of slogans and cliches which have virtually no practical application. Its role has been negative. The Government seeks industrial peace in this community, but industrial peace based on justice and equity for all parties. The Opposition seeks industrial peace also, but it seeks the peace of the industrial graveyard, as we have seen in the past. That is the substantive difference between its policy and ours. When the Opposition was in government it based its entire policy on the existence of repressive penal provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. When the provisions collapsed under their own weight, rejected by employer and employee alike, the former Government had no answer. It was wandering around prior to the December 1972 election in an intellectual desert, seeing an occasional mirage and hoping an oasis would appear on the industrial horizon. It found nothing, and it still has not come in out of the desert. 
The new dimension in industrial disputes is the power of the shop committee. Those who fail to recognise that, fail to understand what is occurring in industrial relations today. Frequently disputes occur before trade union officials even know of the cause or know that they have occurred. This legislation is essential in coming to grips with this contemporary problem. It is not the total answer of course, but it is another important part of the total program. One aspect of it is the training of trade union officials, for which the present Minister for Labor and Immigration has carried the torch, as it were. He is the pathfinder in this area. 
It is ludicrous to suggest that a legal requirement which involves the rank and file members of a union in the making of consent awards and industrial agreements is in some way bad for industrial relations. Only a person or a party with no basic understanding of Australian industrial relations would make such a wild and unsupportable assertion. It is not possible for this Parliament to legislate for compulsory good conduct and the establishment of good faith in industrial negotiations. It is not possible to change attitudes by law; but it is the responsibility of Parliament to provide the machinery for the settlement and if possible the prevention of industrial disputes. This legislation goes a good way towards that objective. 
There is a very heavy onus on those who oppose this measure to provide a realistic alternative. The Liberal and Country parties are very free from ideas in this area. In fact, they are as free of ideas in this area as they are in so many other areas, such as those involving Australia's economic problems. I remind honourable members opposite that a few slogans do not make a policy that is capable of achieving an objective. They can chant their slogans and mouth their cliches from the party machine, they can read the . speeches that are written for them by their rich and powerful friends, but they do not convince anybody who thinks for more than 30 seconds about what they say. 
Disputes in this community have to' be minimised. We have to create a situation where there can be full industrial peace. As a society we need to achieve that objective. No. trade union in Australia desires to see constant industrial turbulence. No trade unionist worth his salt wants to see workers on strike. Employees go on strike to obtain a particular objective after all other means have failed. In some cases disputes have occurred through misunderstanding and through poor communication. If the Opposition could only see, this Bill is an important ingredient in assisting in achieving better communication, in having the participation of the total workforce - those who will be required to work under the terms of agreements, involved in their making, committed to their making and committed to carrying out the conditions of the agreements. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for Wannon, I say that I am surprised that the Opposition should take such a negative role. When he became the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations and had made one or two speeches on the subject I was one who stood- in this House and said that he brought a breath of fresh air- 
A little. When the honourable member for Wannon commenced in his position as shadow Minister for Labor I thought he would bring a new perspective to the Opposition parties. But he has fallen by the wayside. He is now simply mouthing the slogans as so many others have done. I implore this Parliament here and people elsewhere to give this proposition a reasonable chance. It is an important step, an important part of a total program for which the Minister for Labor and Immigration is entitled to receive absolute credit and the praise of the community. Whereas he is trying to establish reasonable and efficient machinery the Opposition is frustrating every move he makes in this area. 

 -Mr Chairman, so far this debate has been quite notorious because so many speakers have spoken in favour of the principles of one vote one value but at the same time have expressed their intention to vote against the principle which they have espoused. I found some of the contributions very interesting, even if they were only a repetition of history. All the speeches so far were based on principle but were accompanied by the same old feeble excuses which have been advocated at each appropriate time in this Parliament since 1902. They were the same arguments, almost without variation. I was amazed to hear  Senator Withers  speak of the message he learned at his father's knee. ' Look out for the returning officer. He is the one most important man' is the message he gave us. 'Vote early and vote often' was another message he gave us. If they are the 2 lessons which he learned in his childhood, no wonder the Liberals picked him as their leader. Has there ever been a greater example of a misspent youth? 
This proposition is a worthwhile one. It has been subjected to extensive debate in the House of Representatives and in the Senate on 2 separate occasions in each place, and it has been before the Australian people. There is absolutely no doubt that the Australian people want a system which gives equality of value of votes for all voters. That every citizen should have an equal voice in the Parliament is the very basis and foundation of democracy. If that situation does not endure democracy does not endure. If that situation is not upheld by this Parliament there is almost an immediate breakdown of law and order in our society. Government of the people, by the people, for the people is not an empty phrase and is not something that can be tampered with. 
The United States Supreme Court has had an opportunity of expressing a legal view on this question on several occasions in recent years. In every single case that has been before the United States Supreme Court it has made the same decision- that the democratic concept will not tolerate the gerrymandering of politicians. The democratic state has inherent in its concept that all citizens will have an equal voice. The Westminster system of government under which we operate gives to the party with the most seats in the lower House an absolute monopoly of power in that House. In those circumstances it is even more essential that every citizen's vote should have equal value. It is ludicrous for members of the Opposition to come here today with tired, worn out old arguments. They have used the argument about the man in the country, which was argued in 1902 when there were no telephones, no trains, no motor cars, no communication between the citizens of the outback of this great nation. That argument is no longer appropriate today. Let us look at these self-styled, selfappointed advocates of the rural area. They stand here today crying for inequality of voting, to be weighted heavily in favour of the country person whom the Country Party has neglected shamefully over the last 25 years. 
Let us look at the facts. The census taken in 1916 showed that 60 per cent of the citizens of Australia lived outside the metropolitan areas. In 1972, 54 per cent of the citizens of Australia lived in the metropolitan areas of our capital cities. Why? Because the Country Party, which has been operating since 1919, has seen the decline of population in rural areas during the whole of its existence. The reasons are simple. Until last year children in the rural areas of this country did not receive equality of educational opportunity. Country people still do not receive equality of opportunity in employment. People in rural areas do not have equality of opportunity for the same life style and for the same enjoyment of life as do people in the metropolitan areas. That is as a result of the political party which has represented the country areas since 1919. The rural electorates have got 50-odd years of decay from the Australian Country Party. 
The 1902 debate is very interesting. The Minister concerned, when referring to the tolerance, stated clearly that if in any circumstances a variation in equality of electorates was 1 ,000 or more a particular explanation of the reason for that variation had to be given by the Electoral Commissioners. So it was assumed that, consistent with the constitutional requirement, there would be equality of value of votes cast in elections for this Parliament. That is what the Australian Constitution requires. That is the way seats are allocated as between the States. It is assumed in the Australian Constitution that politiciansmembers of this Parliament- will act as honourable men, will ensure that their electorates are so framed as to allow the people to give expression to their view. It is assumed that electorates will be so drawn as to ensure that the rights of people are put above the convenience of political parties and members thereof. 
In 1968 only 8 electorates out of the 45 electorates in New South Wales following the redistribution had variations above 10 per cent over the quota. An equal number- 8 electorates- had more than 10 per cent below the quota. The position in New South Wales now is quite remarkable. No fewer than 26 New South Wales electorates in this Parliament exceed the quota by 10 per cent or more and 23 electorates are 10 per cent or more below the quota. Of the 26 electorates which are above the quota by 10 per cent or more, 19 are held by the Australian Labor Party. Of the 23 electorates which are 10 per cent or more below the quota, 1 8 are held by the Opposition Parties. Is it any wonder that members of the Opposition stand here, almost in hysteria, fighting against the concepts of equality of voting? 
It is absolutely certain that we cannot always achieve equality of numbers as between individual electorates, and that is why the Government proposes the variation of 10 per cent either way. It is not reasonable to split communities in half. But we do not need a total variation of 40 per cent to give effect to that principle. We do not need a variation of 40 per cent in order to have regard to the problems of communication which have been raised here today. In fact, in city electorates where this great variation is now occurring we need a variation of only 2 per cent or 3 per cent to give effect to equality of voting and at the same time not split legitimate communities in half. Today, at this Joint Sitting of the House of Representatives and the Senate, this historic occasion, democracy in Australia is on trial. Let those who stand for democracy speak today in this Parliament. Let those who want to masquerade and create all sorts of smokescreens and introduce red herrings into the simple, relevant argument cringe and find excuses for trying to uphold dictatorship by the minority. 
It has been put that in this Parliament there are certain people who believe that they were born to rule. It took a massive vote to shift them off the perch or to move them off the throne. It has been argued in this Parliament in the past that there has never been an occasion when the party with the majority of votes has not had the majority of seats. In 1954 the Australian Labor Party received 50.1 per cent of the vote and the Liberal and Country Parties received 47 per cent; but the Liberal and Country Parties remained in government. In 1961 the Australian Labor Party received 47.99 per cent of the vote and the Liberal and Country Parties received 41.98 per cent; but the Liberal and Country Parties continued to govern. In 1969 the Australian Labor Party received 46.95 per cent of the vote and the Liberal and Country Parties received 43.3 per cent; yet the Liberal and Country Parties continued to govern. In 1972 the Australian Labor Party gained 49.59 per cent of the primary votes and 41.48 per cent of the primary votes went to the Liberal and Country Parties. It took that proportion of the primary votes to change the government and put the category A boys in their place. They found to their horror that they were not born to rule at all. That came very hard to them. They cannot accept it. They think that they did not lose; that they just did not get the numbers. 
In the United States Constitution Convention debate of 1 778 James Madison said: 
Who are to be the electors of the Federal Representatives? Not the rich more than the poor, not the learned more than the ignorant; not the haughty heirs of distinguished names more than the humble sons of obscure and unpropitious fortune. The electors are to be the great body of the people of the United States. 
The same principle applies in Australia almost 200 years later. This Bill will establish new and more appropriate guidelines for the redistribution of electorates. It will assist the Distribution Commissioners in the future, whenever they are called upon to perform their task. I commend this Bill. I believe that every person who believes in the democratic concept will vote for it. 

 -Mr Chairman, so far this debate has been quite notorious because so many speakers have spoken in favour of the principles of one vote one value but at the same time have expressed their intention to vote against the principle which they have espoused. I found some of the contributions very interesting, even if they were only a repetition of history. All the speeches so far were based on principle but were accompanied by the same old feeble excuses which have been advocated at each appropriate time in this Parliament since 1902. They were the same arguments, almost without variation. I was amazed to hear  Senator Withers  speak of the message he learned at his father's knee. ' Look out for the returning officer. He is the one most important man' is the message he gave us. 'Vote early and vote often' was another message he gave us. If they are the 2 lessons which he learned in his childhood, no wonder the Liberals picked him as their leader. Has there ever been a greater example of a misspent youth? 
This proposition is a worthwhile one. It has been subjected to extensive debate in the House of Representatives and in the Senate on 2 separate occasions in each place, and it has been before the Australian people. There is absolutely no doubt that the Australian people want a system which gives equality of value of votes for all voters. That every citizen should have an equal voice in the Parliament is the very basis and foundation of democracy. If that situation does not endure democracy does not endure. If that situation is not upheld by this Parliament there is almost an immediate breakdown of law and order in our society. Government of the people, by the people, for the people is not an empty phrase and is not something that can be tampered with. 
The United States Supreme Court has had an opportunity of expressing a legal view on this question on several occasions in recent years. In every single case that has been before the United States Supreme Court it has made the same decision- that the democratic concept will not tolerate the gerrymandering of politicians. The democratic state has inherent in its concept that all citizens will have an equal voice. The Westminster system of government under which we operate gives to the party with the most seats in the lower House an absolute monopoly of power in that House. In those circumstances it is even more essential that every citizen's vote should have equal value. It is ludicrous for members of the Opposition to come here today with tired, worn out old arguments. They have used the argument about the man in the country, which was argued in 1902 when there were no telephones, no trains, no motor cars, no communication between the citizens of the outback of this great nation. That argument is no longer appropriate today. Let us look at these self-styled, selfappointed advocates of the rural area. They stand here today crying for inequality of voting, to be weighted heavily in favour of the country person whom the Country Party has neglected shamefully over the last 25 years. 
Let us look at the facts. The census taken in 1916 showed that 60 per cent of the citizens of Australia lived outside the metropolitan areas. In 1 972, 54 per cent of the citizens of Australia lived in the metropolitan areas of our capital cities. Why? Because the Country Party, which has been operating since 1919, has seen the decline of population in rural areas during the whole of its existence. The reasons are simple. Until last year children in the rural areas of this country did not receive equality of educational opportunity. Country people still do not receive equality of opportunity in employment. People in rural areas do not have equality of opportunity for the same life style and for the same enjoyment of life as do people in the metropolitan areas. That is as a result of the political party which has represented the country areas since 1919. The rural electorates have got 50-odd years of decay from the Australian Country Party. 
The 1902 debate is very interesting. The Minister concerned, when referring to the tolerance, stated clearly that if in any circumstances a variation in equality of electorates was 1,000 or more a particular explanation of the reason for that variation had to be given by the Electoral Commissioners. So it was assumed that, consistent with the constitutional requirement, there would be equality of value of votes cast in elections for this Parliament. That is what the Australian Constitution requires. That is the way seats are allocated as between the States. It is assumed in the Australian Constitution that politiciansmembers of this Parliament- will act as honourable men, will ensure that their electorates are so framed as to allow the people to give expression to their view. It is assumed that electorates will be so drawn as to ensure that the rights of people are put above the convenience of political parties and members thereof. 
In 1968 only 8 electorates out of the 45 electorates in New South Wales following the redistribution had variations above 10 per cent over the quota. An equal number- 8 electorates- had more than 10 per cent below the quota. The position in New South Wales now is quite remarkable. No fewer than 26 New South Wales electorates in this Parliament exceed the quota by 10 per cent or more and 23 electorates are 10 per cent or more below the quota. Of the 26 electorates which are above the quota by 10 per cent or more, 19 are held by the Australian Labor Party. Of the 23 electorates which are 10 per cent or more below the quota, 18 are held by the Opposition Parties. Is it any wonder that members of the Opposition stand here, almost in hysteria, fighting against the concepts of equality of voting? 
It is absolutely certain that we cannot always achieve equality of numbers as between individual electorates, and that is why the Government proposes the variation of 10 per cent either way. It is not reasonable to split communities in half. But we do not need a total variation of 40 per cent to give effect to that principle. We do not need a variation of 40 per cent in order to have regard to the problems of communication which have been raised here today. In fact, in city electorates where this great variation is now occurring we need a variation of only 2 per cent or 3 per cent to give effect to equality of voting and at the same time not split legitimate communities in half. Today, at this Joint Sitting of the House of Representatives and the Senate, this historic occasion, democracy in Australia is on trial. Let those who stand for democracy speak today in this Parliament. Let those who want to masquerade and create all sorts of smokescreens and introduce red herrings into the simple, relevant argument cringe and find excuses for trying to uphold dictatorship by the minority. 
It has been put that in this Parliament there are certain people who believe that they were born to rule. It took a massive vote to shift them off the perch or to move them off the throne. It has been argued in this Parliament in the past that there has never been an occasion when the party with the majority of votes has not had the majority of seats. In 1954 the Austraiian Labor Party received 50. 1 per cent of the vote and the Liberal and Country Parties received 47 per cent; but the Liberal and Country Parties remained in government. In 1961 the Australian Labor Party received 47.99 per cent of the vote and the Liberal and Country Parties received 41.98 per cent; but the Liberal and Country Parties continued to govern. In 1 969 the Australian Labor Party received 46.95 per cent of the vote and the Liberal and Country Parties received 43.3 per cent; yet the Liberal and Country Parties continued to govern. In 1 972 the Australian Labor Party gained 49.59 per cent of the primary votes and 41.48 per cent of the primary votes went to the Liberal and Country Parties. It took that proportion of the primary votes to change the government and put the category A boys in their place. They found to their horror that they were not born to rule at all. That came very hard to them. They cannot accept it. They think that they did not lose; that they just did not get the numbers. 
In the United States Constitution Convention debate of 1 778 James Madison said: 
Who are to be the electors of the Federal Representatives? Not the rich more than the poor; not the learned more than the ignorant; not the haughty heirs of distinguished names more than the humble sons of obscure and unpropitious fortune. The electors are to be the great body of the people of the United States. 
The same principle applies in Australia almost 200 years later. This Bill will establish new and more appropriate guidelines for the redistribution of electorates. It will assist the Distribution Commissioners in the future, whenever they are called upon to perform their task. 1 commend this Bill. I believe that every person who believes in the democratic concept will vote for it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. Has his attention been drawn to certain reports criticising proposed or suggested amendments to the Electoral Act dealing with optional preferential voting and redistribution of electorates? I ask the Minister: Is there any substance in the allegations which have been made? 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the enrolment in each electoral division in Australia at the redistribution in 1 968, and what is the enrolment in each now. 
What has been the percentage rise or fall in the number of electors in each division between the redistribution in 1968 and now. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the informal vote in each electoral division in Australia in the- 
House of Representatives Election; 
Senate Election; and 
Referendums of 1 8 May 1 974. 
What was the total informal vote in each State for the- 
House of Representatives Election; 
Senate Election; and 
Referendums of 1 8 May 1 974. 
-We have just listened to a very dull and dreary speech by the pretender to the throne. It was a speech which was irresponsible, capricious and full of absurdity. It was a speech which was designed to destroy confidence in the Australian economy. It was also a speech in which reference was made to the 'crippled economy'. Those were the words used by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  Of course, of those who came to listen to him some dozed off and some did not pay attention. Attempts by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to enliven the debate were rebuffed in very vigorous style. Of course, we have heard everything that the Leader of the Opposition said many times before. In fact it was a rehash of the old stuff that he trotted out in the election campaign earlier this year. As he quoted from Press reports perhaps I can qoute from the editorials on the speeches which he made at that time and perhaps some of his own comments. On 1 3 April of this year the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' said: 
To be plain, the Opposition's economic policy as so far expounded does not stand up to economic analysis. 
We have heard it again tonight. On 1 May the 'Australian Financial Review' said: 
Not even the most generous analyst could conclude that  Mr Snedden  's policy speech last night provided anything like a credible solution to the problem he himself denned, that of inflation.  His  anti-inflation policy is not credible. 
That criticism could not be levelled at him tonight. No criticism could be levelled at his antiinflation policy tonight because he did not have one. He stood here as naked of ideas as one could possibly imagine- carping, harping criticism as Billy the wolf huffed and puffed at the door of the Prime Minister's Lodge trying to get in, but not a breath was heard behind the door. Not a single suggestion did he make as to how he would cope with the problems that confront our economy and the problems that confront the economies of every nation in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. On 10 May the 'Australian Financial Review ' said: 
Snedden 's proposals have not excited too much attention - 
That also applied tonight as half of his supporters went to sleep- or serious debate because nobody even marginally involved in politics takes them seriously. 
On 6 July the Melbourne 'Age ' said: 
Snedden is still trying to convince the electorate that he has soft options which will cure inflation. There aren 't any. If there were  Mr Whitlam  's Government and other Govermments throughout the Western world would have already implemented them and inflation would no longer exist as an international problem. 
That is what the Press thought of the Opposition's economic policy at the time the Leader of the Opposition suggested those solutions. He acted with political cowardice tonight because he did not put forward one single suggestion as to how the alternative government would come to grips with this problem. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that the Budget ignores the unemployment situation. He claimed that the Government accepts that it is tolerable to have 4 per cent to 5 per cent of the work force unemployed. That suggestion is nonsense. It is not supportable in any way. However, let me cite what occurred in 1971 and let me remind the Australian electorate that the words used tonight have a familiar ring. On 15 April 1971  Mr Snedden  said: 
Every country which has created or permitted unemployment as a weapon against inflation has failed miserably. We take full employment as a cardinal act of political faith and we will not resort to unemployment to achieve our objective. 
That is almost what he said tonight. But in a speech just 9 months later when he was reviewing the 1971 Budget and the dismal unemployment figures which appeared at that time he said: 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over award payments are depressed. 
In other words he had achieved a situation in which the unions- the working man- had less bargaining power. Therefore he deliberately created unemployment. Somebody said that the unemployment figures are worse now. In fact, they are not. At that time they were standing at 120,574 persons on a greatly reduced work force; so the percentage was significantly higher. 
The Leader of the Opposition has claimed that some of the decisions made by the Government are wrong. He said that one of those is on the question of interest rates. The Leader of the Opposition has a rather remarkable record on that subject because he has been known to be slightly contradictory on it. He has advocated many things in relation to the question of interest rates. For example he advocated that they should go up or said they might go up, they should go down or they might stay as they are. In referring to interest rates on 1 April he said they could go still higher. On 10 April he said they would be reduced immediately. On 19 April he said they could not be reduced. On the morning of 1 May he said he could not guarantee that they would not go up. In the afternoon of 1 May he said he believed they probably would rise. Surely a person who makes that sort of contradictory statement is in no position to come into this Parliament tonight and criticise what has been done. 
He also claimed that the inflation rate in Australia was greater than in any other country in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Of course that is not correct. He also failed to say that during the period when those who were born to rule- the category A mob- were in control, Australia had the lowest growth rate of any OECD country. I refer to the years between 1967 and 1972. Let us examine the facts of this situation. They do not bear out what the Leader of the Opposition said. For example for the year ended July 1974 retail prices increased in Japan by 25.2 per cent; in France by 1 4.4 per cent; in Italy by 1 8.9 per cent; in the United Kingdom by 17.1 per cent; in Belgium by 13.7 per cent; in Canada by 11.3 per cent with 5.6 per cent unemployment; in the United States of America by 1 1.7 per cent with 5.3 per cent unemployment; in Denmark by 15.9 per cent; in Portugal by 25.9 per cent- the unions can hardly be blamed for that situation there because Portugal does not have any unions; in Spain by 15.2 per cent; in Turkey by 25.9 per cent and in Australia by 14.4 per cent. These figures are all from the same source- the OECD survey. 
We have heard an allegation that the national directions have gone astray. We admit we have changed direction. There is no question about it. It is quite deliberate and intended. No longer do the multi-national corporations rule Australia. No longer do the rich and powerful friends of those in Opposition call the tune. No longer are the mining corporations allowed to dictate what tax they will deign to pay. Is there not a reaction to this situation? The developers, the fly-by-night developers and the land speculators are the people who are crying and their allies, their little puppeteers, come in here tonight to cry and whinge on their behalf. The deprived people of Australia, as seen by the Opposition, are the land speculators, the rnining corporations and those involved in foreign takeovers which have been prevented. Of course we change direction. 
Massive sums of money are now available for schools, hospitals and homes. Massive sums are being spent on education, on training the work force and on preparing the work force to meet the needs of this community. 
One could go on at great length in talking about what the Leader of the Opposition said tonight, but let us examine some of the basic facts. Inflation has existed in Australia for a very long time. Since the end of World War II economists and political leaders have been decrying inflation. Year by year we have been told that next year there would be ruin. I can clearly recall that when the basic wage was increased by f 1 a week in 1949 the people were told that the economy could never stand it. I also recall at the end of 1949 a Liberal-Country Party government being elected in Australia on the promise that it would put value back in the pound yet in 1 950 Australia experienced the highest rate of price increase ever in its history- an increase of 23 per cent or about half as much again as the worst that has occurred under the guidance of the Whitlam Labor Government. 
Of course there was demand inflation. What caused that? Let us examine the causes of the demand inflation which was with us until a couple of months ago. First there was a reservoir of demand built up. It was built up because of the uncertainties which resulted from the economic policies of the previous Government during 1971 and 1972. Unemployment was deliberately created by the Liberal Party to put the working man in his place. Secondly there was the failure of previous governments to provide a manpower and training POliCY to allow sufficient skilled manpower to be available to produce the goods and services required by the community. The Chamber of Manufactures and the Bank of New South Wales, two reasonably regarded nonsocialist organisations, conducted a survey earlier this year with respect to productive capacity. For the March quarter 1974 the survey illustrated that 42 per cent of the respondents said that they could not keep up to maximum production because of labour shortages and 29 per cent said it was because of material shortages. In June 1974, 35 per cent blamed labour shortages and 28 per cent blamed material shortages. The survey illustrated that 52 per cent of all labour shortages was with respect to skilled tradesmen. There were not sufficient tradesmen because the guilty men, who are now in their place in Opposition, refused to spend a reasonable sum on training. They allowed in the building industry the introduction of a pernicious system which had as its very objective the destruction of skilled tradesmen. It was the most predictable thing one could imagine when subcontracting was introduced into building construction. It was obvious that there would inevitably be a shortage of skilled tradesmen because of the lack of apprentices. 
A survey by the Department of Manufacturing industry showed that in the March quarter of 1974 61 per cent of all manufacturers had less than their maximum productive capacity because of labour shortages. Many factors bring this situation about. One substantial factor is the lack of training which the Opposition when in government was prepared to tolerate and did nothing to correct. However that is not the case with this Government This Government has been quick off the mark to provide for additional training for both young people, with additional technical colleges and improved educational facilities, and adults, with a scheme for their retraining. 
Our economy is basically sound and no huffing and puffing by the Leader of the Opposition or those who follow him can make it unsound. Unemployment levels at present are higher than the Government is prepared to accept and initiatives are already under way to overcome this problem. Production levels have been booming. No matter where one looks production levels have been running at record rates. For instance last year 30 per cent more houses were built than during the last year of the Liberal-Country Party regime. What is more, $25m allocated for housing to the State governments of Victoria and New South Wales could not be spent- $ 16m in New South Wales and $9m in Victoria. It could not be spent because resources of materials and manpower simply were not available. 
Tonight I want to deal with one particular aspect of inflation, namely, oil prices. It is completely unacceptable for the Leader of the Opposition to try to impose the burden of inflation on this Government as though inflation operated nowhere else in the world and it was something that had been dreamed up by the Whitlam Government after December 1972. The facts are that there has been a massive escalation in the price of oil which is having its effect both in terms of costs and prices and liquidity throughout the whole industrially developed world. An extra US$60,000m will be spent by OECD countries as a result of the increase of the price of oil. It is all very well to try to shrug that fact aside. It means that very substantial sums of money are being taken out of certain economies and placed into others. It means that inevitably money becomes tight and that costs go up. We have felt the brunt of it here in Australia in both directions. 
-My friend asks why. I am glad he is still awake. I will tell him why, if he does not know it. Australia, because of the nature of its trade, pays freight both ways. Therefore, the cost of freight has risen with the cost of fuel. Australia also needs to import 30 per cent of its fuel, and fuel costs have gone up by some 282 per cent. Australia also needs to import for its basic industries certain chemicals which cannot be produced here, and the cost of these chemicals has gone up by about 80 per cent. We have also had an increase in the cost of tool steels and materials of that kind, on which Australia's secondary industries depend. Inflation is a world problem which is recognised by responsible world leaders. The current acceleration of the rate of inflation is what is causing concern. It is causing  so  much concern that  President  Ford and  Dr Kissinger  of the United States of America saw fit to address the General Assembly of the United Nations on the subject in the last 24 hours. It is quite irresponsible for the person who aspires to the position of Prime Minister of Australia to try to shrug off the matter on the basis that it is somehow the direct responsibility of this Government. 
I would like to refer briefly to 2 other matters before I conclude my remarks. The Leader of the Opposition referred to comments made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which he claims destroyed any chance of Government cooperation with the unions. That was cheap and it showed ignorance of the real situation. The Prime Minister's comments to which the Leader of the Opposition referred can be made difficult if one takes them out of context, as the Leader of the Opposition has done. But he is not fooling anybody. Nobody is influenced by that sort of distortion, by taking things out of context. The Leader of the Opposition referred to the matter of education. He said that the increase this Government has given for education- some $ 1500m - 
As my friend the honourable member for Barton says, the Government's expenditure on education has trebled over the last 18 months. The Leader of the Opposition said that the benefit of that increase has been overtaken by the decision to reduce the deduction that may be claimed for taxation purposes, from $400 to $150. 1 have heard this argument. I am fed up with all the hypocrisy that is inherent in it, irrespective of the source from which the criticism comes. The fact is that in 1972 the previous Liberal Government gave an allowance of $50 per primary school child and $68 per secondary school child in a regional Catholic school. Next year as a result of the Budget the allowance will be increased to $163 for each child in a primary school and $260 for each child in a secondary school. That is an increase of 300 per cent and yet the Leader of the Opposition had the gall to stand here - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to serious allegations contained in the 'Bulletin' about an incident alleged to have occurred between a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly and an Army major at a social function held on Army premises? Is it true that a major of the Australian Army was hastily transferred as a result of this incident? Does the Minister intend to have these allegations contained in the article investigated in order to establish the full facts? 
I wish to make a special plea this morning on behalf of the surf life saving movement of Australia. I give full credit to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  for the magnificent job that he has done in showing some interest in and concern for this organisation; nonetheless it is still urgently in need of further assistance. It is true that in 1973-74 an additional amount of $ 100,000 was made available on a dollar for dollar basis for surf life saving equipment to be purchased. That, of course, was in addition to the $50,000 which had been made available previously for administrative purposes. In the recent Budget that amount has been increased to $160,000 on a dollar for dollar basis for the provision of surf life saving equipment, and an additional $70,000 has been provided to help needy clubs and also for the purchase of power boats. That means that the total sum now being made available to the surf life saving movement in Australia is $280,000 as compared with the miserable sum of $50,000 which was made available under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It did not care too much about this very important aspect of life. 
But, in spite of what has been done, more still needs to be done. The surf life saving movement has expressed great appreciation to the Government for its assistance. Those members of it in my area have asked me to convey their gratitude and thanks to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation for the job that he has done so far. But they do need additional assistance. I point out to the House that the maintenance costs alone of a power surf boat are $ 1 ,000 per annum. The equipment being used these days for the saving of lives in the surf is much more sophisticated than it was when surf life savers used necktoknee costumes. The equipment now being used includes the power boats of a very sophisticated kind, a helicopter service and up to date radio and telecommunications equipment. 
The task is worth while. The surf life saving movement has been responsible for rescuing 200,000 people in the Sydney area. The Bondi club alone has been responsible during its history for pulling 10,000 people out of the surf. Many of those people might have perished but for the activities of those dedicated young men who risk life and limb for no other purpose than to give protection to the Australian community. Surfing is a recreational activity that is very beneficial. I suggest to the House that 1 0 minutes in the surf is better than 2 bottles of tranquiliser pills. Surfing is an activity that is very popular. But it is popular only because of its safety- a safety guaranteed by young men who serve the community. If some organisation could guarantee that no lives would be lost on Australian roads in the next year, I venture to say that the Government would say that no cost would be too great to meet its operations. If the surf life saving movement did not exist many thousands of lives would be lost in surfing activities around our coastline. The development of character and the development of youth are things that the Government has set out to encourage. The surf life saving movement has done a great deal in that regard. 
My plea for additional assistance falls under 2 broad headings. Firstly, during May storms lashed the east coast of Australia, causing many hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of damage to all sorts of facilities, both natural and man-made. Included in those losses was surf life saving equipment. Through no fault of thenown through the very heavy ravages of naturethe surf life saving clubs are now confronted with thousands of dollars worth of debts to try to replace equipment which has been lost. So far they have received no assistance from the appropriate State authorities in restoring the equipment that has been lost. Even at this stage, so soon after the introduction of the Budget, I make a plea to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation to take special steps either to encourage the State authorities to make funds available or to make a special effort to have funds made available from Australian Government sources so that the beaches of Sydney and elsewhere will be safe for those who will use them during the coming surfing season, which will open on Monday next. 
The other plea I make is in relation to club house facilities. Surf clubs have to find their own funds. They do that by levying fees and running raffles and other fund raising ventures. I suppose that the surf life saving movement is the only organisation that is performing an essential and highly desirable community service that has to pay for the right to do so. Sydney's beaches would be unsafe but for the surf life saving movement. It is ludicrous to think that those who make them safe have to pay for the right to do so. The community should pay them, not the other way round. Let me tell honourable members about the sorts of costs involved. I will give just a couple of examples. The Coogee surf club needs to find $9,000 every year, the Tamarama surf club needs to find $8,000 every year, the Clovelly surf club needs to find $6,000 every year and so on. In fact, the cost of painting the club houses is very high. The paint on the buildings erodes quickly because of the closeness to the surf. The spray from the sea has a very disastrous effect on the paint on those buildings. Each time the Coogee surf club wants to paint its building, which is situated virtually right on the water, it has to raise $6,000 to do so. To put the club house at Bondi beach, which is one of the greatest beaches if not the greatest beach in the world, in reasonable condition will cost the Waverley Municipal Council $40,000. That Council had to establish a new complex at Bronte because some kind soul was responsible for it being burnt down. I am not being critical of whoever was responsible for that happening, because he did a good turn. The dilapidated, broken down, shambling old building which was there and which was a disgrace has been demolished because of an accident and a new one has been constructed in its place. That building cost the Waverley Council $180,000. The surf club section of it cost $52,000. 
There is no reason why the councils in the areas in which the beaches happen to be located should have to bear the whole cost, because citizens from all over the Sydney metropolitan area use the facilities at the beaches on the north side and south side of Sydney Harbour. It is fundamentally wrong that the citizens who happen to live there should have to bear the whole of the cost. I make a plea to the Government to take special steps in this regard. The surf life saving movement needs to attract more and more young men, and one way of attracting them is to provide decent and reasonable facilities in which they may enjoy their recreation. There is also a need, with the introduction of new oxygen equipment, for more highly skilled professional instructors. I believe that the Government would do well if it were to give serious consideration to the subsidising of the surf club movement so that professional instructors could be available full time rather than reliance being placed on the part time instructors, medical practitioners and the like who give their services and time free of charge for this very important function. 
I conclude by saying that the surf boys movement- that is, the one which deals with boys of from 5 to 13 years of age- is also deserving of some assistance from the Australian Government. I put this very sincerely and very strongly: The Australian community needs the surf club movement of Australia. It provides a remarkable and wonderful service. It is deserving of greater assistance than it is getting. I have made this strong plea on its behalf. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is there any justification for the view that the introduction of the Bankcard credit system will have an adverse affect on financial liquidity in the community? In particular, will the Bankcard system result in funds being diverted by the banks from housing construction to finance the new credit scheme? Will the Bankcard scheme have any effect on the interest rates charged on loans generally? Is it likely that Bankcards will result in higher prices being charged by retailers who use the scheme? 
-For more than 20 years the Liberal-Country Party Government allowed the trade union movement and the industrial relations system of Australia to be perched on the edge of a powder keg. They knew what everybody else in industrial relations knew- that there was a grave and serious deficiency in the whole system of industrial regulation in this nation. They knew that there was a web of industrial technicality and of legal entanglement that some day would have to be faced. They knew that, as everybody else knew it, from 1952. In 1968 the fuse was lit in the case of Moore v. Doyle. The barrel exploded shortly thereafter in the case of Steuart v. Oliver. 
It is as well that this Parliament should ponder carefully over what is now proposed- that now, in 1974, at least 20 years after the first emergence of this problem on a widespread basis, the Liberal-Country Party Opposition in this Parliament wishes to defer again the solution of a problem which is of critical importance to the economic, industrial and social wellbeing of this nation. At any time another dispute could break out and paralyse industry and commerce in any city of this nation. We have seen it occur before- at least twice in the Sydney petrol-oil tanker driver disputes- and paralysis has followed. The Opposition's solution still is to defer, but defer for how long? How long does it take State governments, State parliaments, trade union bodies and those employer organisations who still have not made up their minds after 20 years of meditation and consideration? It is unreal and unrealistic to put before this Parliament a suggestion that this matter should be deferred again. 
It is as well also to refer to a passage from the case of Moore v. Doyle, which is reported in the Federal Law Reports, volume 15 at page 119, and which is also recorded in the report of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Sweeney.  Mr Justice  Sweeney set out from that judgment passages to which I will not refer. They referred to there being Federal and State unions operating, as it were, within one entity, legal or otherwise, but in one de facto entity known as a national or Federal union. However within that entity we have an organisation registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. There may be 4 separate State organisations registered under the State trade union Acts and industrial arbitration Acts of Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia and perhaps 2 other bodies operating in Tasmania and Victoria. In many cases the conditions of eligibility of the various organisations operating under the one umbrella of a national organisation would be different and it could be that persons who would be eligible for membership of a State organisation would not be eligible for membership of the Federal union to which they owed their allegiance and with which they were affiliated in every sense except the narrow, legal sense. In the Moore v. Doyle judgment appears the following passage: 
In the great majority of cases the trade union and the branch of the federal organisation are administered as though they were the same body with one set of assets, one system of banking, one set of books, one register of members, one set of officers, one election of officers for both bodies, and one system of meetings of a committee of management to handle the affairs of the trade union and the State branch of the organisation. Despite differences in the constitution rule of the federal and the corresponding State body, members of one who are not eligible to be members of the other are often treated as members of both and often vote in elections of the body to which they are not entitled to belong. 
Generally one application form is filled in and this sometimes satisfies the provisions of rules of the organisation &amp;nd the trade union, but often there are different rules as to applications. Sometimes, as the cases show, the real and effectivelyoperating body is the State branch of the federal organisation with the corresponding trade union existing as a mere fiction and it has occurred that a trade union has been held to be non-existent and liable to be deregistered by the State authorities. In other cases it is the trade union which is the living body and the State branch of the federal organisation may be a shadow or fiction having.no real existence. In yet other cases the affairs of the State branch of a federal organisation and of the corresponding trade union are administered under some practically-evolved set of rules which are an administrative amalgam of the registered rules  of the  State branch and the trade union but are not the actual rules of either. 
The Trade Union and Industrial Arbitration Acts of some  of the  States appear to proceed upon the basis that the State trade union and/or industrial union is an autonomous body corporate or separate legal entity not under control of bodies outside itself, whereas the State-registered body is usually treated as being part of a federal organisation and is, in fact, subject to control by a federal council or committee of management . . . . . . cases referred to earlier in this judgment are further illustrations  of the  web of problems and technicalities which have developed in the system of trade union organisation in Australia . . . 
That is the very brief explanation of a very complex and involved situation. As the court said, there is a web of problems and technicalities which have developed in the system of trade union organisation in Australia. Such a situation cannot be left there. It is against the public interest for that to be so. The court said in 1968, 1 hasten to add: 
A system of trade union organisation is urgently needed which would enable the one body to represent its relevant members in both the federal and State arbitration systems and it should be possible for federal and State authorities to examine the question whether organisations and trade unions can be provided with such a system. 
We have heard in this Parliament this afternoon a plea for further delay because some State parliaments, some State governments and some State branches of some unions are not yet satisfied that this is an answer to the problem. I simply ask the question: If not this one, then what? I say to honourable members opposite that they had 20 long years to work out a solution to this problem. We are entitled to assume that they do not have one and that they have not any ideas on how to meet the problem. 
We say that the problem is one of urgency because the whole question of settlement of industrial disputes is tied up in this piece of legislation. Failure to pass this legislation will leave a heavy responsibility indeed on those who frustrate its passage. Those who block the passage of this legislation can bear the consequences the next time that a dispute arises over a demarcation on the State and Federal union issue which creates chaos and which cripples industry and commerce. Certainly some further action is required. Certainly it will be necessary for the States to pass some complementary legislation in some respects. For my part I do not believe that if they fail to do so it will result in this legislation being completely non-effective. There will be a heavy responsibility on the State parliaments concerned which refuse to co-operate to overcome this problem of great magnitude, perhaps one of the most complex, most difficult problems and one which has the most consequence in the sense of industrial relations that this country has had to face for many a long year. 
The issues raised by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I think deserve proper consideration. He referred to the fact that this first arose in the Transport Workers Union of Australia. Of course he is correct. But the case to which he referred first arose in the middle 1950s, not in 1968, when there was an inner faction argument in the New South Wales Branch of the Transport Workers Union as to which candidates had been elected to office, whether they had been elected to office in the branch of the Federal organisation or in the State registered union. I thought that would have been within the honourable member's knowledge. The real issue which highlighted this situation arose in 1968. It arose because owner-drivers were recruited into the New South Wales Branch of the Transport Workers Union. The honourable member for Wannon, who I thought made a reasonably constructive contribution up to a point, had to spoil it all by a cynical sarcastic remark that this was obviously because the union's membership was dwindling. That is false. That is not the case at all. 
The situation, for the honourable member's benefit, was this: Certain employers- possibly contributors to Liberal Party funds; that is perhaps why the honourable member wants to protect them- were involved in a very doubtful practice which was, in my view, quite unethical. The employers said to employees who were drivers: 'We will not employ you any more because we do not want any more drivers. But we are prepared to engage you if you buy a vehicle, which we will sell you at a reasonable price on terms which you may repay by instalments. You can then be working for yourself. They were employees in a de facto sense but not as a matter of law. There was no longer an employer-employee relationship which the Australian Constitution apparently holds sacrosanct. But there was a new relationship of principal and agent. So the New South Wales Parliament not going to allow this device to be used to rob and deny employees of their proper conditions through wage coverage and the basic conditions of protection that employees are entitled to under the State laws, passed the new section to v. Lien the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  referred. Section 88E of the Industrial Arbitration Act of New South Wales provided that a person engaged in such activity would be deemed to be an employee for the purposes of the New South Wales Act. So they were eligible and correctly and properly and ethically enrolled- perhaps I should say continued- in membership in the New South Wales Branch of the Transport Workers Union. Of course somebody challenged it several years later on the basis that the persons involved were not employees and could not be members of the national organisation. 
The honourable member for Wannon also accused the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  of having an ulterior motive. I do not understand why he did that, but he did it. He said that this may be designed or may have the effect of tearing the Australian Workers Union in Queensland to ribbons. If the present situation continues without correction the Australian Workers Union in Queensland will be shattered. That is the fact of the matter. The Australian Workers Union in Queensland is one of those unions. The Federated Clerks Union of Australia- the honourable member for Wannon referred to telegrams from 2 branch officials of that union- will also suffer a very serious consequence if similar legislation to this is not adopted. I think I know something about the condition of that union. I had some experience over 20 years with the organisation. 
This legislation will not destroy any union. It will not and cannot inhibit the rights that any union has now. It will protect those rights. The demarcation function is a device or a mechanism designed to allow a Federal union with a wider constitution or conditions of eligibility in particular States, to continue to incorporate those members within that State or States for State purposes and yet allow another organisation or an employer or the Minister to apply to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to restrict the right in the Federal sphere. That is to say, the Australian Workers Union, to take the case referred to by the honourable member for Wannon, could represent shop assistants north of Rockhampton in the State arbitration system of Queensland, but it could be demarked and prevented from representing shop assistants in, say, Tasmania, where it has never had any interest and never had any members. 
That is the purpose of the provision. In any event, if there were no such problem at all, is it not desirable, is it not essential in fact, that this Parliament should clothe the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with the power to settle demarcation disputes? Surely in this modern, contemporary, turbulent industrial society the day is long past when Parliament could sit on the sideline and say: 'Industrial disputes are not issues about which we should be vitally concerned'. We must be vitally concerned and we must attempt to give the power to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to resolve these issues. 
Of course the honourable member for Wannon raised the old question about the constitutional power. We go back to the question of what is an industrial dispute. The honourable member is relying on some very old cases to say that a dispute between 2 organisations cannot be an industrial dispute within the meaning of the Constitution. That has, I think, been modified to some extent- not all the way, I agree with him, because the matter has not been argued all the way in recent years. But in the container demarcation dispute in which the Transport Workers Union was involved in the High Court seemed to me, at any rate, to modify some of the attitudes it had taken many years ago in this area. I fail to see that it could be held by the High Court that it is not an industrial dispute within the meaning of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Australian Constitution when 2 unions are seeking to represent the interests of employees and bargain with an employer and there is a stoppage of work and there are counter-demands as between 2 organisations and an employer. 
I think it is impossible to say at this stage that this legislation is unconstitutional because of the reasoning of forty or fifty years ago. Today there is a different industrial climate. The organisation of industrial relations is different. Industrial society is different. Therefore the facts that pertain to a particular dispute will be different and obviously different issues will arise. It will not be a question of the old classical demarcation style issue where it is a question of a union trying to exclude another; it will be a question arising in contemporary terms where both organisations are making claims on employers and it will be for somebody to decide who shall be entitled to represent those employees. 
I believe the Minister for Labor and Immigration is to be commended. The legislation protects the autonomy of State branches of unions. If the honourable member for Wannon would refer to clause 5(3) and clause 9 of the Bill he would see that there is very substantial protection for branch funds, elections and properties and there will not be the over-centralised control about which he has complained in the past and no doubt which is exercising his mind now. I commend him to look at those clauses and particularly to look at the provisions about rules contained in clause 5(4) and also in clause 5(3)(a), particularly where it refers to established practice. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-The Opposition has used this debate to attempt to engage in a cheap and cynical attack on the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  to try to appeal to prejudice and to try to bring out a very base motivation in the Australian public. It will fail. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  chose to disparage the missions that the Prime Minister has undertaken overseas. It is about time that these matters were put in their proper perspective. It is about time that the Leader of the Opposition grew up. Australia has grown up, and so should the Leader of the Opposition. 
We have come a long way since the days when Prime Ministers of Australia made annual pilgrimages to London and Washington to receive the blessing from the heads of 'great and powerful friends'. I might add that at least with respect to one former Prime Minister the times of his visits overseas regularly coincided with the playing of cricket test matches. I could supply the Leader of the Opposition with comparative figures which would show that  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Mr Harold  Holt were, in the same period of leadership, absent from Australia for almost precisely the same length of time as our present Prime Minister. I could refer to the fact that  Mr Gorton,  when he was Prime Minister, was absent from Australia 8 times in 3 years. That is one perspective. 
But the true perspective in which the Prime Minister's missions should be seen is the perspective of their importance to Australia and what they have achieved for Australia. Under this Government and under the leadership of the Prime Minister, Australia's standing abroad has been transformed. Old friendships have been strengthened. They have been put on the basis of a mature relationship. Australia has a voice of its own and is heard with respect throughout the world. The Prime Minister 's visits have been an important part of this transformation. Leaders of Asian nations no longer telephone Washington to find out what Australia 's attitude is, as they used to do previously, because there might have been a change that we had not heard of. Now those leaders telephone the Australian Prime Minister to find out what our attitude is, correctly and directly. 
Which of the Prime Minister's overseas visits would the Leader of the Opposition say should not have been undertaken? Does he suggest that the Prime Minister should not have made his visit to New Zealand on taking office? Does he suggest that he should not have gone next to Indonesia, our largest and closest neighbour, or visited Indonesia again for the informal but very fruitful talks that he had for 3 days last month with  President  Suharto? Does he suggest that the Prime Minister should not have attended the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Ottawa last July and, at the same time, taken the opportunity to have discussions with the then  President  of the United States of America? Does he suggest that the Prime Minister should not have headed the ministerial talks in Japan last October- a valuable arrangement with our largest trading partner, established by the Government of which the Leader of the Opposition was a member? Or does he suggest that it was inappropriate for the Prime Minister to go on then from Tokyo to Peking to set the seal on the relations that he had established with China during the period when he was Leader of the Opposition? ' Does the Leader of the Opposition suggest that the Prime Minister could have delayed his visit to South East Asia, this vitally important region for Australia? The Prime Minister made that visit last February and it was the most successful visit any Australian Prime Minister has ever made to South East Asia. Earlier this year, in speaking in this Parliament, I referred to the statements made by the  President  of the Philippines, the Prime Minister of Thailand and the Prime Minister of Singapore who praised and welcomed the Australian Prime Minister to their countries. They welcomed him and wished him to come back again. They were pleased to see the new relationship which had been established since the Labor Government was elected and the present Prime Minister was elected to office. 
Does the Leader of the Opposition suggest that the Prime Minister was wrong to address the United Nations General Assembly? Or was he wrong to take the opportunity which that invitationthe first ever accepted by an Australian Prime Minister- presented to confer also with the re-elected Prime Minister of Canada and to talk with the new  President  of the United States? Was it not thoroughly proper that the Prime Minister should maximise the value to Australia of that journey which took him twice across the Pacific to represent this nation at the meeting of the South Pacific Commission in the Cook Islands, the centenary celebrations in Fiji and the bi-centenary celebrations in Norfolk Island? 
The fact is that what the Opposition resents about the Prime Minister's overseas missions is not their frequency but their success, not his absence from Australia but his achievements on Australia's behalf. The difference between the present Prime Minister and his predecessors is not that he leaves Australia longer or more often but that, when he does, he serves the interests of this nation with distinction and purpose. It is the envy and the jealousy that comes out when the Leader of the Opposition and those who follow him attack the Prime Minister for his absence. What a cheap and petty attack it was. The Prime Minister spent a day at Niagara Falls. He spent a day at Williamsburg looking at a display of antiques. Does any member of this House seriously suggest that this Prime Minister does not apply himself day and night, week in and week out to the duties of his office? 
I have never heard any sensible member of this Parliament or any intelligent person whom I know suggest that this is not a very hard working, dedicated Prime Minister indeed. It would be difficult to imagine any person applying himself harder and with greater dedication than the present Prime Minister to the onerous tasks of that office. I believe that it would be impossible for any man to do more. So, this cheap, stupid attack which is made that the Prime Minister should be concentrating more on the problems of inflation and employment and not travelling overseas leads me to ask: Do not these narrow-minded, shallow people realise that what is occurring' today in Australia is a reflection of what is occurring in Western Europe and in North America? 
My friend makes the most intelligent interjection that he has made so far. He says: 'Rubbish! ' That is about the level that I have come to expect from the honourable gentleman. I turn to the other attack that was made. Somebody- I think it was the honourable mem.ber for Curtin  (Mr Garland)-  referred to the fact that the Prime Minister had arranged when he assumed office for the purchase of a Mercedes car. Let us look at the facts of that matter. A Mercedes car was purchased for the Prime Minister. The fact is that the little run-about that the former Prime Minister had, a Bentley Type S- as honourable members all know that is a little family run-around- was sold for $11,200. The Mercedes cost $9,800. So, by making the transfer the Australian Government gained $1,400. They say that is extravagance. 
Then, honourable members opposite talk about charter flights being used. On 3 October, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  provided an answer to a question on notice about charter flights. I commend it to honourable members. Here we see evidence of some extraordinary amounts being spent on charter flights for honourable members who were formerly Ministers. In fact, the honourable P. J. Nixon must be the greatest flyer Australia has had since Kingsford-Smith. In 1972 he made 47 flights at a cost of over $9,000. 
The honourable R. J. D. Hunt, who sits at the table now, was a pretty close competitor. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has any progress been made with respect to modifying the practice of domestic airlines having flights for the same destination leaving at the same time? Will the Minister expedite an alteration of this practice, thereby ensuring a wider choice of travel times for air travellers? 
I want to say at the very outset that the ill-conceived and poorly thought out attacks that have been made on the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  have been falling on very deaf ears indeed on this side of the chamber. The Treasurer has the confidence of my colleagues and I on this side of the chamber, as well he should, and will continue to have our confidence, as he is entitled to expect. I have found the debate so far to be rather extraordinary. I rather gather that a new philosophy has been developed that is designed to correct inflation, that is, the philosophy of huff and puff. That is the sort of philosophy which is coming from the Opposition. 
Not one single idea has so far been put forward and not one viable suggestion has so far come forward from the other side of the chamber as to how the problems of inflation and unemployment might be realistically attacked. Certainly we have had a stampede of words, almost meaningless in their jumbled state, flowing across the centre of this chamber from the Opposition and have heard statistical manipulation ad nauseam, but we have not heard a single solitary idea on how this problem besetting the Australian economy might be tackled. Certainly we have heard questions being asked about why we do not cut Government expenditure and why we do not increase expenditure on defence. Those incredible statements are being made and those who are making them do not even have the decency to blush. On the one hand they want to cut expenditure and on the other hand they want to increase expenditure. They want to cut taxation and spend more money. These are irresponsible people and really do not have the right to govern a country which has the sound future Australia has. 
The last thing that members of the Opposition will accept is that a substantial and significant part of the inflation in Australia is caused by the greed of their rich and powerful friends in Australia who are the price makers- those who establish the prices of goods and services in the community. I do not expect honourable members opposite to admit that proposition easily, but I do want to say to them that there have been significant increases in the profits of almost every major company during the last year and those profits will continue to expand. True it is that those covered by the Prices Justification Tribunal are having their profit margins trimmed. True it is that there has been a disinclination to invest. True it is that there has been a decline in investment in Australia. Everybody on the other side of the chamber says that that is because the price is not high enough. I submit that there is another reason. The other reason is the price of money. It is a more attractive proposition to lend money than to invest it. That is the reason, or one of the fundamental reasons, why the amount of investment in equity capital is falling. It is more profitable for those who have ready cash to lend it on mortgage than to invest it as equity capital. 
I dispute very strongly that this country is on the verge of ruin, as some honourable members opposite would have us believe. I say to members of the Opposition and, in particular, to those who write the columns of the daily Press and those who control the editorial policies of newspapers and other forms of the media in this community that they have a very heavy responsibility indeed. Wittingly or unwittingly they are undermining the confidence of the Australian people, the Australian investor, in the long term security of this country. They are doing a grave disservice when they do that. During the last depression, Franklin Roosevelt campaigned on the theme that the only thing to fear is fear itself. By convincing the people of the United States of America of the truth of that statement and by convincing the people of the world of the truth of that statement the world came out of the worst depression in its history. I put it to honourable gentlemen opposite and to those who control the media in Australia that, just as it is possible to pull a nation and a system of political economy out of a depression by convincing people that there is nothing to fear, it is equally possible to push an economy into a depression by convincing them that they have something to fear. To do that is all the more irresponsible when the basic premise on which it is done is completely false. 
The Australian economy has problems, but there are problems throughout the Western democracies. Everybody can see that. Anybody who cannot see it is either a fool or a liar. There is no question about it. But to say that we are on the verge of doom and to say that we are, as it were, on the edge of the economic precipice is sheer and utter nonsense. It is the essence of hypocrisy. Those who seek to gain political mileage and personal advantage out of spreading such gloom and doom amongst the Australian community will find they have written a very sorry page indeed in history. I believe that this country has an enormously prosperous future. I have great confidence in it. So will anybody else who cares to look at the resources possessed by this country, recognising that they are resources which will be required by the rest of humanity, by people throughout the whole of the world. We have the capacity and the will to supply and develop those resources. 
I am surprised that a person who looks as intelligent as the honourable member should ask such a stupid question. We have room for great confidence. I believe we will see inflation peak during the next quarter just as I believe it will peak throughout the world. 
I have not. I am saying it now. I believe it will peak this current quarter as it will peak throughout Western Europe and North America during the current quarter. Far from seeing massive unemployment during 1975 I say to those Australian employers who are irresponsible in disposing of skilled labour between now and the end of this year that they may regret it during 1975. Employers who have skilled labour on their staffs now would do very well to think twice about capriciously getting rid of their services. They should think twice because when they want them next year they may find that some other employer, who has had a little more concern for the welfare of such persons, may have them and their former employers may have to go without. I believe there will be some significant labour shortage in 1975. 
I will tell the honourable member something he may not know. About a decade ago General Motors-Holden's Limited laid off 3,500 employees for a period of 3 weeks. At that time it amassed millions of dollars in undistributed profits and it could not carry 3,500 employees for 3 weeks. Yet the honourable member asks how employers will pay their employees. Those who dispose of skilled labour now will have no cause to complain to the Government next year when they cannot get labour as skilled as they want it. If they have such employees now they would be wise to hold them. My view and the view of many economists in Australia is that Australia will have an acute shortage of skilled labour next year. We will see the looks on the faces of the scare-mongers and prophets of doom next year as they stand in this Parliament and ask the Government to do something about the acute shortage of skilled labour and the excessive demand that is occurring once again in our economy. I congratulate the Treasurer on the job he has done. I certainly hope he is here for a long time in the future to guide the Government through the tricky road ahead. 
-Perhaps I should preface my remarks by saying to the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  that what counts is not how much is spent on military equipment but what is received for that expenditure. He should recall his own record, because it is not too good. The sort of equipment that he purchased was not up to standard. It was left to this Government, when it came into office in December 1972, to set about modernising the equipment of the Australian Services. This work has been commenced and it will be continued. The honourable member for Barker, never known for his discretion, has let the cat out of the bag again. Here is an assertion, which I accept without qualification, that a future Liberal government, if anyone could see that far into the future, would not, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said, cut all expenditure by 8 per cent; such a government would be selective in its reduction. It is the total expenditure that will be cut by 8 per cent. I have the honourable members assurance that this is the position because he is nodding his head. If total expenditure is to be cut by 8 per cent- and we accept his assurance that defence expenditure will not only be not cut but increased- this means severe cuts elsewhere. 
-That means there will be a slashing of expenditure on education and on social welfare. The honourable member would develop an Australian Army with modern equipment but with nobody sufficiently educated to operate it. Of course, he would be driven back to the old Liberal way which is not to pay servicemen what they are entitled to receive, not to pay them what they are worth but to get what one can for the least possible cost and to make up the difference by conscription. I should be pleased to hear a completely unequivocal statement by spokesmen of the Liberal Party that they will not in future reintroduce conscription. These are the guilty men who until the day they were thrown from office insisted on conscripting the youth of Australia, disrupting young lives for 2 years at a time, interrupting the training of Australian youth to put them into the Army, taking young men out of universities and out of clerical positions in private enterprise and putting them into the Army to do basically the same work. 
-These are the guilty men, and those who resisted, as the honourable member for Hunter interjected, even those with conscientious objections, were thrown into gaol and treated as common criminals. I want to hear members opposite say unequivocally that they will not reintroduce that iniquitous system. These are the guilty men who conscripted Australian youth and sent them to the jungles of Asia to die and be wounded. These are the men who would do it again. They oppose our concept. The concept of this Government is to put the defence services of Australia on a modern and proper basis. The Liberal-Country Party team said before the last elections that no government could have an Army without conscription. After this Government abandoned conscription we saw the same thing happen in the United States of America. So far I have not seen that country's army disintegrate, nor has ours and nor will ours disintegrate in spite of the ranting by the honourable member for Barker. 

 His Excellency the Australian Amassador to Ireland, when Leader of another Party in another place, aptly summed up the LiberalCountry Party approach to defence. He said that they left the defence of Australia in the hands of boy scouts and girl guides. When I heard the honourable member for Baker speak this afternoon I thought that was perhaps an appropriate description. We reject the concept that there is need to continue to spend more and more on defence without reason or logic. This Government believes that the Australian defence forces- our Army, Navy and Air Force- should be modernised. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has made it clear in recent statements that that program is progressing extremely well. The Government has already ordered new naval vessels from the United States of America and has presently under consideration the upgrading of armoured equipment for the Australian Army. Tests have been carried out with German and American tanks and no doubt in due course orders will be let. 
The Liberals reject the concept that there is no immediate threat to Australia. Again this afternoon we heard the same thing from the honourable member for Baker. The Liberal Party sees a military threat to Australia's security. Surely we are entitled to ask and the Australian people are entitled to know from whence this threat is to come. Who is going to attack Australia next week? The military experts in this country- those who have spent their lifetime training for the defence of Australia- believe there is no immediate threat and that there will be no outbreak of military hostilities in this region of the world. 
I think that is a fair question. If in the morning when I am about to leave home the sun is shining I do not wear an overcoat because I can reasonably predict that it will not snow. If I am wrong perhaps I will catch a cold. The odds are overwhelmingly in favour of the fact that I will not be wrong. The Australian Government's concept for defence is to establish- it has been established- a corps style force into which an immediate army can be assembled if need be. If the unfortunate need should arise the situation could easily be rectified. I ask Opposition members to indicate where the threat is and to state the time it will arise. If the Opposition's policy were adopted it is inevitable that those who are poor and underprivileged will have to go without while we build a more massive defence force. The question of priorities must be established. Those with the least at the moment would have to go without more. If there were a threat I for one would be prepared to say to the Australian people, as would the Government: 'We have to set the priorities in a different way. People will have to go without certain things in order to build a more massive defence force'. But when one makes such a decision it should be based on fact, not fiction. It should be based on the view of experts and not on the view of those who want to play soldiers- who want to play cowboys and indians- that at some future time there might be a threat. 
Before the May 1974 elections the honourable member for Barker insisted that the Government spent too little on defence. During that campaign he said that the Liberals would not increase defence expenditure. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member for Barker to withdraw that statement. 
-The honourable member for Barker is quick to use insulting terms but it would be far more appropriate if he had the manhood to stand up and state what are the facts instead of the glib mish mash of nonsense to which he treated the Committee this afternoon. He said that we should have an Army of 41,000. Then he said it should be an Army of 36,000. On Tuesday last he said: 'I would not be anxious to increase unduly the numerical strength of the services'. Does he deny that he said that at the Returned Services League Congress? 
I agree. For once during this speech the honourable member for Barker has fallen silent. No matter what he says, that is what he did say last week.  His  contradiction has caught up with him. He made up his mind several times but contradicted himself on each occasion. The realities of life are that this Government will have a defence force which is capable of defending Australia. It Will be consistent with our national needs. Australia will have defence services consistent with urgent priorities that need to be adopted. Australia will have a defence force of men who are volunteers. 
-This proposition is steeped in sham, duplicity, humbug and hypocrisy. The Opposition is attempting - 
I will deal with the right honourable member in a minute. The Opposition is trying to ride on the backs of the unemployed of this country. Let me deal with the argument put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I was amazed this morning to hear him, of all people, make such a grave and irresponsible statement as to suggest that the real figure of unemployment at present is 250,000. That is the height of irresponsibility. As a person who has been elected to a position of leadership in Australia and as as a member of this Parliament, he should be ashamed to overstate a serious proposition so grossly and improperly. In fact it is grossly untrue for him to state that. He has absolutely no evidence to justify the statement. He cannot justify it. The decent thing for him to do, for the benefit of the community as a whole, would be to stand up and withdraw that statement and apologise for ever having made it. 
The humbug of members of the Opposition who claim that confidence is sagging, that we need to build confidence and that the Government should attempt to build confidence in the economy of Australia, is that at every opportunity they try to downgrade that confidence and to destroy it. I refer to the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  What gross irresponsibility, what humbug was his statement - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! the terms 'humbug' and 'irresponsibility' cannot be used in the House. 
-The Leader of the Country Party said there was a vastly greater number than 190,000 unemployed. He said 350,000 would be out of work by January. What is the basis for that statement- his opinion, which is that 350,000 will be out of work by January. I reject it, and I am sure that most other people who can read figures will reject it utterly and completely. He has no basis for saying that, any more than he has a basis for saying that there are in fact 190,000 out of work at present. The actual figure is less than 150,000. That is merely, of course, 40,000 here or there. He knows, as well as do other members of this House, that the figure he is quoting is the seasonally adjusted figure. 
In March of this year 82,564 people were registered as actually unemployed. At the same time there were 87,552 registered vacancies for employees. In April 76,865 persons were registered as unemployed and there 8 1,258 registered vacancies. At present, of course, there are unfilled vacancies exceeding 40,000 jobs. There are 40,000 vacant jobs in the community waiting for somebody to fill them. The responsibility for the fact that there are unemployed persons who cannot get those jobs rests squarely on the guilty men who sit opposite, the men who for a quarter of a century refused to introduce into Australia any scheme for the training of employees. They found it beyond them to engage in employment planning or any form of manpower scheme whatsoever, except the conscription of our youth. The basic difference between them and a Labor government is that whereas the Government initiates economic activity, they react to whatever happens to occur and whatever may be the wishes of their rich and powerful friends. 
There has been an appreciable slowing in the rate of reduction of unfilled vacancies. For example, in both June and July of this year the number of unfilled vacancies reduced by more than 11,600 a month. That was very serious cause for concern. But in October the number of unfilled vacancies reduced by just over 1,200. That is cause for some confidence. That is cause to take the view that the decline in employment opportunities is bottoming out. It is also cause to take the view that there has been less turnover of labour, because when there is a rapid turnover of labour there is this increase in unfilled vacancies. Talk of insecurity destroys confidence and causes unemployment. If members of the Opposition expect anybody to believe that their effort here today is designed to try in some way to overcome the problems for those who are unemployed I ask them to consider one thing: What did they suggest as a means of overcoming it? Members of the Opposition heard something last night and they will hear something more tonight which will show beyond doubt that this Government and this Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  are not committed in any way, shape or form to unemployment. They reject it completely. 
Members of the Opposition want to attack this Minister for Labor because there is unemployment, but I say to them that in 23 years they never had a Minister for Labor with the courage of the present Minister to try to retrain the Australian work force. The Opposition is jealous and envious of his record and that is why he is attacked. Perhaps the real reason emerged from both the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party. They let the cat out of the bag when both of them launched a bitter, miserable and contemptuous attack on the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Leader of the Opposition said that the Prices Justification Tribunal must understand that profit is honourable. The Leader of the Australian Country Party said that nothing is wrong with profit and that the Government is sooling the Prices Justification Tribunal to make profit the very minimum. Those statements are false. I refer the honourable gentleman to the first annual report of the Prices Justification Tribunal. At page 52, in relation to profits, it states: 
It is useful to pay regard to profits from three points of view, namely in their relationship to the goals 
efficient resource allocation and optimum growth; 
price stabilisation; and 
equitable income distribution. 
I suggest to the honourable gentlemen opposite who are apparently labouring under this false view that it might do them well to read the report. 
What they really mean is that they do not want a situation where there is some regulation against excess profitability. They do not want a tribunal. They do not want a scheme of things which prevents profit maximisation and prices maximisation. Their real view, the view dictated to them by the outside interests that control them, is that profits must be at their maximum level all the time and that prices must be fixed on the criterion that they shall be the maximum amount that the consumer can be forced to stand. That is their attitude. Let it be clear from their speeches here today that they will denude the Prices Justification Tribunal of power. They will make it a toothless tiger. If they have their way we will see a situation in which when goods and services are in short supply the supplier will have the right to charge the price at the greatest level that the unfortunate consumer can be forced to pay. 
The Liberal and Country Parties when in government used unemployment as an economic weapon. They used it skilfully in 1951, in 1961 and in 1971. Every 10 years they introduced a short, sharp burst of unemployment to wave the stick at the employee to get him back into line. At the end of each of those 10-year periods- 1951, 1 96 1 , and 1971 -the Liberal and Country Parties created a short, sharp burst of unemployment. It is dishonest to say that the great depression was the result of the action of a Labor government or that the unemployment that came after World War II was caused by a Labor government. That is the implication of what the Leader of the Opposition had to say. That argument is hardly worth answering because it is so ludicrous as to be laughable. The Liberal and Country Parties are the parties in Australia which have used unemployment as an economic weapon. The Australian Labor Party has always believed and always will believe that it is undignified and immoral to use unemployment as an economic weapon. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Has the Minister heard allegations that the Australian Government does not have a realistic and responsible wages policy? Is there any truth in this allegation? Is it not true that the Parliament has no jurisdiction to legislate on incomes? Did not the Liberal and Country Party members actively campaign against this Parliament being given such power during the campaign which preceded the 1973 referendum on prices and incomes? 
-The reforms contained in this Bill are long overdue, and I congratulate the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on his foresight in introducing them at this stage. I for one would be completely opposed to the suggestion made by the Opposition that these matters be deferred until the autumn session and that an all-Party committee be set up to look into them. Perhaps the suggestion would have the advantage of getting rid of some of the false notions which some Opposition speakers have put this afternoon. In these days one cannot afford to wait too long. After all, one does not know when some steps will be taken to force an election. I remind the House of the recent spectacle of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  insisting on leading his supporters through the Valley of Death. It may be that they will have the death wish again very shortly and will seek to confront the Australian electorate with another election. 
The voting procedures in Australia are outdated and outmoded. The last election result was so long delayed that it was laughable. What a ludicruous situation. Three weeks after Australian citizens had cast their votes nobody knew which Party would govern or which Party had the majority in the Senate. This is no reflection on the Electoral Office staff; this is a serious and a sad reflection on the system which this Parliament has laid down for the conduct of elections. No other country, no other civilised democratic nation would accept such a stupid position. Nobody else tolerates it. Why should we? The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  was . wrong when he said that the optional preferential system is the same as the first past the post system. 
-It is not in effect, nor is it in fact. It is nothing like it. Seventy per cent of people who vote in elections at present cast second, third and fourth preference votes which are never counted. They are completely irrelevant. In a normal metropolitan seat, only 2 parties have a chance of winning- the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Labor Party. I suppose one could say that in a marginal seat 40 per cent would vote Liberal and 40 per cent would vote Labor no matter what happens. Those people who vote one for the Labor candidate and those people who vote one for the Liberal candidate know full well that when they fill in 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 alongside the names of the respective candidates those preferences will never be counted. There is no way they can be counted. It is simply a waste of time and effort. It is a time consuming exercise which serves no purpose. Is it not sensible and efficient to say: 'In those cases, people may vote No. 1 for the Labor candidate or No. 1 for the Liberal candidate'? That is as far as they need go. If they want to give their first vote to the Australia Party candidate and their second vote to the Labor Party candidate or the Liberal Party candidate, they have the option to do so. 
Surely no party which claims that it supports the principle of freedom of choice can say: 'We compel you to vote in order of preference for candidates whether you want to or not'. What an objectionable thing it is for some people to have to give a preference, even though it might be their 7th, 8th or 10th preference, to a Nazi candidate, a Communist candidate or a Liberal candidate.' Some people may object strongly in principle to voting for a candidate of the Liberal Party or some other party. Why should they have to cast such a vote if there is no point in their doing so? 
The honourable member asks: 'Why have compulsory voting?' 
-Well, why have compulsory anything? I believe in compulsory voting because it is my view that every person should be compelled to discharge his or her responsibility. But having said that a person must vote one cannot say for whom that person must vote. 
Let me enlighten you, my friend. We do not have compulsory voting in Australia. We have compulsory attendance at the polling place. There is an enormous difference. We compel people to go to a polling place, to have their name crossed off and to take a ballot paper. That is as far as it goes. If they choose not to vote, to put a blank ballot paper into the ballot box, that is their business. 
The honourable member for Murray, who stands here as an expert in defining the optional preferential system of voting which he says is the same as the first past the post system, contends that what he calls the inverse preferential systemother people call it the Geneva system and it is more commonly known as the Nansen systemis the fairest system. Where has the honourable member been all these years? Does he not know that system is open to the most serious abuse of any system devised. Under such a system all one has to do to get elected is to pack up the ballot paper with bodgies. One gets in dummy runners so as to ensure that one's opponent receives the lowest number of votes. In other words, if the honourable member and I were contesting an election all I would have to do would be to get three of my friends to contest the election with us and by giving the honourable member our fifth preference we would ensure that he finished on the bottom of the heap even though a majority of the people might have given him their No. 1 vote. The honourable member should not say that this cannot be done. I have seen it done. This is the system which is the most open to abuse of any system ever devised. 
-Where is it being done? I have seen it done in all sorts of places. I do not propose to list them here and now. 
-If the honourable member for Murray wants to see me afterwards I will explain it to him in detail in words he can understand. I hope that he will then recant and drop that suggestion because he might convince someone that the Parliament should be elected under that system. 
The essential purpose of this Bill is to ensure that the community view is expressed by the members elected to this Parliament. It is basic to democracy that people who sit in this chamber and in the Senate represent the majority view. There is an obligation on Australian citizens to vote, and the right to vote should be a right which is easy to exercise. At the present time we do not compel persons to fill in every square on a ballot paper. At least in the administration of the Act they are not required to fill in a number in every square. If they fill in all but the last square that is regarded as a formal vote. I do not know why the Opposition takes this intransigent view about this reform. It is a simple reform, it gives people a choice, and I think the Opposition should give some serious consideration to this matter. 
There are many aged people in our community who found grave and serious difficulty in voting in order for 73 Senate candidates at the last election, and I ask honourable members on both sides of this House who come from electorates in New South Wales to think back just a few months and remember the old people in polling booths who could not cope with the list of 73 persons on a ballot paper, a ballot paper which was longer than the writing surface provided in a voting booth. They had to take the ballot paper outside the little cubicles, sit on floors, look for somewhere to write in order to fill in this complicated ballot paper. Is it any wonder that some 12 per cent of the ballots cast were informal and, in the majority of cases, they were informal through no fault of those who were filling in the ballot paper. They were informal because the ballot paper was beyond people's capacity, due to the system and the number of candidates who were contesting that election. Do not cast reflection on older persons with failing eyesight, older persons who may be sick or infirm. It was a difficult task for them if it was not explained to them in great detail how to go about it in an easy and formal manner. 
There is an obligation on this Parliament and on every member here to take every step open to them to reduce the informal vote. It is basic to democracy that the informal vote be reduced if that is possible. The basic franchise must be open to all citizens. Every person who is a citizen of this nation must be entitled to vote. It would be just as right to apply a literacy test or some other test as to give some citizens a ballot paper which is so complicated as to ensure that their vote is never counted. I believe also that reduction of the informal vote is desirable because it will significantly reduce the time taken in counting the ballot papers, in counting the votes, in determining the result of an election, and that is important in a democratic society. 
I do not know why the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  decided to launch an attack on the registration of political parties. Surely that is a reasonable proposition? Its only significance is that the name of the party is registered so that there can be no duplication or manipulation of names to be placed on ballot papers by unauthorised persons. After all, trade unions in Australia are registered, with restrictions and constraints placed upon their activities, but not so political parties in this Bill. Business names have to be registered under various State company laws. Why should there be an objection to the registration of names of political parties? The honourable member for Moreton criticised the number of words to be permitted in a party name. Why six, he said? There has to be a limit otherwise some people would abuse that provision and write perhaps a page describing themselves as the name of the party. In the United Kingdom it has been found that 5 words is sufficient, and six seems to be a reasonable number to accommodate every conceivable political party which is operating in Australia at the present time. But this is an essential point. Do not let us lose the point of this provision by putting up a smokescreen. Do not let us lose sight of what is involved. It is essential to ensure that every elector knows for whom he is voting, essential that there should be no mistake about the identity of candidates. It should be easy for an elector to know and to understand for whom he is voting. It should not be a difficult process. 
In respect of postal voting, I commend entirely the provisions in this Bill brought in by the Minister for Services and Property. We all know that the present system is wide open to abuse. We all know that there are ways of nullifying postal votes taken in hospitals and rest homes and elsewhere. The provision for mobile polling booths will overcome that to a very large extent, and every effort is required to ensure that all citizens exercise their rights. It is equally true that every effort must be made to ensure that all citizens exercise their right to vote in secrecy and that that vote is counted. These provisions are going to make a heavier load for the Electoral Office. I hope that when they are adopted by this Parliament, as I am sure they will be, the Minister for Services and Property will give urgent attention and consideration to ensuring that the Electoral Office has more permanent staff in order to carry out the heavy and burdensome duties that this Bill imposes on it. I conclude at this stage by commending the Bill and by asking all members of this Parliament to give serious consideration to the far reaching reforms contained in the Bill which, I hope, will be adopted without amendment. 
Has the Prime Minister seen allegations that the charges made by Qantas for the charter of a Boeing aircraft for the Prime Minister's forthcoming overseas visit do not actually reflect the full cost of that aircraft's being taken out of scheduled service? Has Qantas requested the use of the chartered aircraft for the period of time that the Prime Minister will not be using it during his overseas visit? 
I want to address the House for a short period this evening on the matter of the overseas visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).There  has probably never been a time when a Prime Minister of Australia has been subjected to such a pillorying by the media, nor has a Prime Minister been subjected to such a cheap, miserable attack by the Opposition. I want to say at the outset that the Prime Minister of Australia, irrespective of which person that happens to be at any given time, has an obligation to visit overseas nations. At this time there is a particular obligation on the Prime Minister to travel abroad. 
Never since Federation has Australia needed to be represented abroad by a head of government so much as now and never has Australia been represented better than it is at present. Never since Federation has Australia needed more co-operation and understanding in international affairs than we need at present. Our economic dependence and the interdependence of nations throughout the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, throughout the so-called Western developed world, have never green greater than at present. In all those countries there is the twin problem of inflation and growing unemployment. It is useless to try to isolate the problem for cheap and narrow political advantage and to say that it is in some way confined within the borders of Australia. 
I would remind those who claim high academic qualifications to read a little once in a while and to come to grips with reality rather than to mouth useless high-sounding phrases in this Parliament from time to time. I am convinced and confident that Australia will have a bright economy next year, that by April or May there will be a completely different complexion on this economy. But it does to a large extent depend on Australia's trading partners also experiencing a return to sound economic conditions. 
Those who say that Australia is not dependent to a large extent on the economies of the United Kingdom, Europe, North America, Japan and New Zealand are either fools or liars. They can take their choice which hat they put on but one or the other is the proper description of persons who deny that basic principle. 
Some criticism has been raised about the Prime Minister's trip. I asked the Prime Minister a question about this yesterday. Some criticism has been made of the Prime Minister for daring to charter a Qantas aircraft to take him and his party on overseas visits. Two broad reasons have evolved from the discussions. Firstly, there is the question of cost. It has been illustrated cheaper than to go by ordinary commercial flight. 
The second and more important reason is that of security. Surely no member of this House would deny that the Prime Minister of Australia would be a rich and prize target for hijackers and kidnappers. Any Head of State would make a very rich prize indeed. Of course there will be those who say: 'It could not happen. It would not happen to the Prime Minister of Australia'. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back just a few years- to less than a decade ago, on 22 November 1963- when a young  President  of the United States of America refused to put a bubble top on a car and was driving through a cheering crowd when the crack of a rifle was heard and a light went out around the world. 
It is of no use tempting fate and it is of no use saying: 'It cannot happen'. We have seen week after week, year after year in recent times, aircraft being hijacked and people being arrested at gunpoint by criminals throughout the world and held to ransom. We should be very careful indeed not to subject any political leaders in Australiawhether from this side or from elsewhere, from this national Parliament or from any State- to undue risk. Those who represent a rich prize for those who would hold them to ransom .) should be fully protected irrespective of the cost. How much is the life of a Prime Minister worth? I ask the honourable gentleman opposite next time they stand up in criticism to answer the question: How much is it worth? How much is Australia's national integrity worth to them and how much is it worth to the cheap campaign presently being organised by certain sections of the daily Press? 
The Opposition and the Press say that the Prime Minister should stay at home. Which trip would they have eliminated in specific terms? He should stay at home, they say. That is what a fellow named Nero did while Rome burned. He stayed at home and played his fiddle while Rome burned to the ground. 
I shall deal with Opposition members who are trying to interject in a minute and give their history to show what they did when they were in office. However, it is nice to know that some people have such confidence in our Prime Minister that they consider that he has such ability to steer the ship of state that, merely by staying in Australia, he would be able to correct the problems of inflation and unemployment. That is a very comforting but exaggerated view, in my opinion, of the capacity of any one man. I am sure that when members of the present Opposition were in government their overseas visits were all justified. They certainly were not reluctant to go. The former Prime Minister was always in London when there was a cricket test match on or when there was a royal christening. Now times have changed and Australia is largely on its own. It needs to stand on its own feet. We have a Prime Minister who has carried the flag of Australia around the world. He has had it hoisted to new heights and everywhere he has been he has received very great praise indeed. 
Let us look at some of the leading lights of the Opposition and see what their form was like when they were in government. For example, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  from May 1967 to September 1972 went overseas on no fewer than 10 separate occasions. In  5Vi  years he was absent from Australia for 216 days. He was away from Australia on an average of 40 days a year, including a short stopover in Tahiti where I am sure he had a great deal of business to transact. Of course he is about to go now but he keeps changing his mind. He is not going and then he is going. He is then told to stay home. The leader through the valley of death is not frightened that those who are following him will follow. What he is concerned about is who is going to come out. He is a little scared that it may not be him. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  a former Prime Minister, from September 1967 to June 1972 went overseas on 1 1 separate occasion. He spent 1 79 days outside Australia. He averaged 38 days per annum away from Australia. The right honourable Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  from 1 July 1968 to 22 June 1972 was overseas on 9 separate occasions. He was absent for 197 days- an average of only 49 days for each of those years. Of course, whilst on one of those trips he nicked up to Fiji for a little more than a week where I am sure he had important business to transact on behalf of the Australian Government. Of course the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  went overseas on several occasion. It was about 4 occasions. In fact, he went around the world 3 times in 15 or 16 months. 
-He was the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Shipping. Of course, it is possible to say that none of these visits were justified. I do not say that. I assume they were all justified. But what I object to is this carping, cheap criticism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in travelling overseas, acting on behalf of the Australian community and the Australian people. Australia needs to be represented abroad more now than it has at any time in its history. It will need to be represented abroad more frequently in the next year than at any other time in its history. I would hope that this Parliament would start to grow up and that people would take a broader national view rather than try to score on cheap political points. I have just given them a taste of the ammunition that can be fired back in response if they want to play that sort of a game. 
-This must be truly one of the most remarkable debates ever to have taken place in this Parliament. In the first place the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  came into this chamber on the basis that the unemployment situation is a matter of great importance to the Australian community and spent the first 20 per cent of his speech in complaining about there being insufficient supporters of the Government present to hear what he had to say. He will find in the months and perhaps the years that lie ahead that he will have even more to complain about because on that sort of performance if he continues to ask the people of Australia to elect him as Prime Minister he is going to be more disappointed still because he will find even fewer people are prepared to vote for such a policy. I listened to his speech very carefully and I listened very carefully to the speech of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  Nowhere in either of those speeches was there one sensible, practical solution. Listening to the Leader of the Opposition, I gained the impression that his speech was typical of what one has come to expect from him. 
The level of unemployment is serious, regrettable and unacceptable. I say this now: I believe that it will fall steadily and quickly. I think that this House ought to look at the matter in a very dispassionate way. 
I remind the honourable member for Riverina that in this House last year I conceded that the actual unemployment figure would reach 300 000. 1 also said at that time that by the end of May or June this year there would be a serious shortage of skilled labour again. I believe that anybody who looks at the trend will see that occurring. We are going through the pit now, as it were. We have reached the bottom of the trough. The level of employment will rise and will rise very quickly. In the next four to five months Australia again will be facing an acute shortage of skilled tradesmen. The statistics available to this Parliament and to the Government are imprecise and do not reflect accurately the true position, in my view. I believe that the present statistics overstate the present unemployment position. World trends are scorned by the Opposition as a factor in Australia's present employment level. 
-I wonder what the honourable member for Gippsland says about world trends in respect of beef prices and the effect those trends are having on the price of beef at present. I wonder what would be the reaction of his colleagues who demand an excessive and unrealistic imposition of import quotas to protect jobs in one sector of Australian industry if the countries affected placed similar quotas on goods which they are importing from us. 
Yes, and we also impose restrictions. If we do what some of the honourable member's colleagues are suggesting we will not have a market left. The whole point is that in all these matters one needs balance. It is the sort of balance which one does not get from the Opposition. There is an acute and very serious situation in Australia today. I invite all members of this House to look at the unemployment statistics. They will see that over the past 15 to 20 years it has been impossible to have full employment without an acute shortage of skilled labour. They are the facts. Every time there is full employment skilled labour is in very short supply. What is the reason? It is simple and direct. It is that previous governments have refused, over a quarter of a century, to engage in adequate and proper training programs. The result is that the whole labour market in Australia is out of balance. 
I have looked to find the Liberal solution. What is the great Liberal plan? What is the latest testament from the prophets of doom and gloom? How would they fix the current situation? I came across a very interesting and rather cheaply produced little booklet called 'The National Economic Program of 1975'. I searched through it to find a solution or to find the light at the end ofthe long tunnel, as it were. What did I find? Their first step is to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
-As quickly as possible. What a marvellous way of getting price exploitation eliminated! Remove the regulator. That is the first step. That will cut prices! What they really mean is to let prices run as high as they can. The second step is to oppose wage indexation. If one takes those 2 things together, what they mean in simple terms is that over a short period wages and salaries will lose their purchasing power- a classic ingredient for industrial disputation. 
In another section of the document the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has had his way. 'Strengthen the Arbitration Commission', whatever that is supposed to mean, is another suggestion. They are the innocuous words in this document, but one has to look elsewhere to see what the honourable member for Wannon had to say at a recent conference. There we see emerge in all its gory detail the Fraser jackboot plan. We see the establishment of an industrial gestapo through which he will have men of the Australian Public Service going to factories to try to crush workers into line, workers who have suffered the squeeze between their non-increasing wages and rapidly increasing prices. The net result of the Liberal plan is higher inflation and lower real wages and salaries. I gain the impression from the Leader of the Australian Country Party that he supports the Liberals in this aspect of their policy. Their next step is to encourage foreign investment in productive industries. I suppose this means more General-Motors, sell a bit more of the farm, hand a bit more of the Australian economy over to foreign control and influence. The Liberals then make the unequivocal statement that it is only the private sector that can provide the means of eliminating unemployment. 
-The honourable member says: 'Yes, it is'. I wonder whether the honourable member would mind telling Tom Lewis,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Mr Hamer  the result of the findings because they do not agree with them. They think that one way of reducing unemployment is to give more funds to the States and to allow the States- 
-On your philosophy that is the right thing to do. In fact, on your philosophy we are providing too much. You say that we should give that money to Ford, General Motors and others to create more employment. Your philosophy is ludicrous; it is stupid. Of course, the thing that members of the Opposition always refuse to face up to is that this Government is frustrated by their un-Australian activities. It is frustrated because of the Opposition's activities in the Senate and elsewhere where it deliberately sets out to undermine business confidence in the community, where it tries to talk the Australian community into a depression. The Opposition has failed. It is now trying to create political instability by threatening to cut off supply. If the Opposition faces the Australian people on that issue it will suffer a worse fate than having Supply cut off. The Opposition parties will be decimated at the polls if they try that stunt again. No government can plan effectively for a national economy of this kind with the threat of an election every 6 months. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was a man without honour, that he had not done what he said he would do and that he had done nothing to correct unemployment. I shall let this House judge who is the man without honour. This Government has already devalued the currency. It has relaxed borrowing controls. It has placed restrictive measures on sensitive imports. It has reduced the SRD ratio from 9 per cent to 3 per cent. It has introduced special drawing facilities for the major trading banks. It has reduced the short term interest rate by 2 to 3 per cent. It has made amendments to the banking regulations to allow the savings banks to expand their lending to housing. It has made substantial cuts in personal income tax. It has introduced tax deductibility on mortgage interest payments for home owners. It has reduced company tax rates. It has deferred the February tax payments and accelerated the depreciation allowance for plant and equipment. I could go on and on with the things that this Government has done to correct the present economic position. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It is apparent that there is yet a further split, a further rift, inside the Liberal Party of Australia. One thing that has emerged clearly from the superficial, supercilious speech just made by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is that he is at great odds with his leader. On 17 October 1973, as reported on page 2238 of Hansard, the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  said: 
We support legislation which provides for the disclosure of political party funds. 
That is what the Leader of the Opposition said. The de facto leader- one of the many candidates for leadership- has now laid down the gauntlet and said that the Opposition will oppose this measure. Another schism. I am staggered that a lawyer of such high reputation, a lawyer who has extolled his own virtues over such a long period of time, should have looked at this Bill in such a superficial manner. Firstly, he does not understand it. Secondly, I doubt whether he has read it thoroughly. Thirdly, I doubt very much whether he has read the Bill in conjunction with the current Act. The honourable member for Moreton said that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  had reached dizzy heights of euphemism when he called this measure electoral reform. I say to him that he has reached astronomical heights in hyperbole and inaccuracy. I refer, for example, to his great play on the words 'reasonable expenditure'. You are aware,  Mr Speaker,  and I take it that a lawyer of such moment as the honourable member for Moreton is aware that 'reasonable expenditure' has a legal interpretation and definition. Indeed, it is already in the Electoral Act in section 147 and has been there for half a century or longer. I invite the honourable member to have perhaps a cursory glance at that. 
The honourable member for Moreton said that this Bill is a violent expression of discrimination. Against whom? The multi-national corporations, his rich and powerful friends? I will come to that in more detail in a moment. He said that the Bill is a savage invasion of privacy. What right has the Australian public to know from where he and his colleagues get their money! What an ourageous proposition that the Australian elector should be able to determine who pays the bill! 'Where is the money coming from?' used to be the Liberals' jibe. Now we take it up and say: 'Let us find out where the money is coming from.' Only guilty men- those who have something to hide- will oppose this proposition. I say that it is not a savage invasion of privacy. In fact, the public has a right to know. How can it be a savage invasion of privacy, a violent expression of discrimination, when in fact it extends the right to spend money in respect of candidates from $500 to about $3,000 in the average case? So the legal entitlement to spend funds for election purposes has been increased 6 times. Despite that the honourable member for Moreton has said that that is discrimination of the worst kind. 
The honourable member for Moreton then tried to draw another red herring across the trail by referring to the Institute of Public Affairs, the Teachers Federation and others not being able to spend money. I invite the honourable gentleman even at this late stage, just to look at the definition of 'party', 'party'. If he looks at it he will see the organisations, with the possible exception of the bushrangers band which would be able to spend funds in accordance with this Bill. I find it not only amusing but interesting that that gentleman would have playing for nun a band called the 'Bushrangers' because I think it is probably singularly appropriate that he and his colleagues from the Australian Country Party would be represented in that way. 
This Bill, if approved, will clear out the slush funds, and not before time. Let us let the air in to political fund raising in this country. The legislation will create far greater public confidence in government, parliament and political parties. It is one of the most important pieces of legislation to be introduced in this Parliament for more than a generation. I for one congratulate the Minister on having the courage and foresight to introduce such far-reaching legislation- legislation which will let the light in. 
Naturally there will be opposition, as we see today- opposition based on inaccuracy. There will be attempts to cloud the issue. Debate obviously will proceed on everything except the relevant clauses of the Bill. Those who seek to influence national political events by the power of wealth and finance rather than by argument and logic will be forced into the open. Their agents in this place are quick to respond on their behalf in spite of the earlier assertion by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)-  the current Leader of the Opposition- that they would support it. The political ghosts will be laid to rest when this legislation is adopted by this Parliament, as I feel confident it will be. The rich and powerful corporations will have only the same power as the less affluent groups in the community to influence events. Those who seek to buy favour and privilege will be frustrated in their attempts. Those who genuinely support the policies of political parties will be able to contribute funds as much as they like, but not in secret. Everyone will know, and that is what gives the honourable member for Moreton almost epilepsy.  His  blood pressure rises at the thought of the secret, furtive meetings in the night- the knock at the door at 2 a.m., not by the Minister for Services and Property but by some rich and powerful friend of his from outside this Parliament; some representative perhaps of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation or United Fruit or one of the other international conspirators who will knock on his door, not to take something out of the fridge but perhaps to leave something under the bed or some other appropriate place. The electors have a right to know the source of funds used by political parties and candidates. 
The Australian Constitution expressly and specifically prohibits the acceptance of fees and honoraria by members of this House or senators for actions on behalf of constituents, persons or estates. Yet, under the electoral law, in spite of that provision, we find it is possible for such persons to make a contribution to party funds or campaign funds and thereby frustrate the clear wish of the Australian Constitution. It defies credibility that such a prohibition in the Constitution could have envisaged a system where socalled campaign donations could be used to reward members for services rendered, and reward them in secrecy and stealth. Steps have already been taken in various parts of the world to protect the democratic system from serious abuse in electoral funding. Rigid and strict controls have already been introduced in Canada and the United States of America. 
Scandals have rocked the democratic world in recent years. The disclosures of the Watergate inquiry have shown us all that there is no room for complacency. The fact that no evidence of corruption or improper practice has been available in the past is no indication that it cannot occur in the future, and that is the clear lesson of Watergate. Similarly, the absence of evidence of corruption does not guarantee that rich and powerful corporations and even foreign governments cannot influence, or attempt to influence, events by donations to political parties or persons holding influence in them. This is a serious issue. There are rumours currently circulating that the Palestine Liberation Organisation and its offshoots are making funds available to some in the community. There is also the suggestion that large amounts of funds will be made available to defeat candidates who support the right of Israel to sovereignty. These are very serious propositions and they cannot be glossed over lightly. They ought to be out in the open for all to see. If someone wants to be financed by favour or fund by a foreign organisation, foreign company, domestic company or some rich friend it ought to be out for the public to see. Those who seek to deny that proposition in my view at least establish prima facie that they have something to hide. 
The 'New York Times' of 29 December contained an article headed 'The Watergate Trial Leaves Many Questions Unanswered'. The article stated: 
Next, there are the intriguing money questions. One of them is whether  Mr Nixon  was knowingly involved in the falsification of his income documents for which a former 
White House lawyer has been convicted and sentenced to prison. Another is why H. R. Haldeman ordered $350,000 in campaign cash stashed in the White House. The White House  explar-  tion that it was for conducting polls has always been dubious. But it was transferred there before anyone knew there would be a need to pay hush money to some clumsy burglars or to finance John Dean's honeymoon. Was that money intended eventually for  Mr Nixon's  private use? And what of the $100,000 in cash Bebe  Rebozo collected from Howard Hughes and the $50,000 he collected from a Florida businessman? 
Although that has not occurred in Australia, does anyone say that the Australian democratic institution is stronger and better protected than was that of the United States prior to 1972? 
The honourable member says 'yes' and presumably later he will say why and how that is so. I say it was not. I say it is not now. I say that in Australia there is no evidence because there is no way of ascertaining where the funds of political parties come from. I would like to see the honourable member who insists on interjecting stand up and say here that he opposes this proposition because there were significant funds spent in his electorate which I would hope was without his authority, which I assume was without his authority, but which undoubtedly played a significant part in his election. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. Is it in accordance with the provisions of the Electoral Act for political parties to collect funds at public rallies? Is the Minister aware that funds were collected last weekend at a place which is reserved for gambling? Is there any requirement that the amount collected must be disclosed? Is there any truth in the suggestion that certain of the participants last Sunday have been called before the stewards to explain their sharp reversal of form? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. There have been many reports in the media recently of allegations concerning training given to servicemen in the use of mustard gas during World War II. I ask the Minister Will he inform the House of the nature and purpose of experiments with mustard gas? When and where were the experiments carried out? How many servicemen were involved? The second part of my question relates to chemical and biological warfare research in Australia. What research units are being used for chemical warfare purposes? What is the reason for such research? Will the Minister indicate whether chemical weapons are being produced or stockpiled in this country? 
-When this matter of public importance was raised by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  my impression was that the action was both insensitive and irresponsible. Having listened to the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  one can only gain the impression that the whole episode is a farce. He was more concerned about whether some South African cricketer should be allowed into Australia than he was about any matter of public importance concerning  Mr Stonehouse.  I believe that this House would have the view that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has acted with every propriety and with good sense in respect of this matter. It is all right for the honourable member for Barker to say that if  Mr Stonehouse  were a private citizen he would be thrown out of Australia but that that has not happened only because he is a member of parliament. Surely he realises and must assume that there is good reason for the provisions of the Migration Act- that there is a strong case to be made out for having an open door as it were for the people's representatives of the various member countries of the British Commonwealth of Nations. Does he want to establish artificial barriers? Does he want to create a situation where even these limited absolute terms are destroyed or reduced? Surely we do not throw out the baby with the bath water in a case like this. 
I for one am getting tired of people in this Parliament subjecting other perrons outside the Parliament to a trial by gossip, rumour and innuendo. I believe that in this particular case the issue surely must turn on whether  Mr Stonehouse  has committed any criminal offence. It is not for us to judge that matter. Heaven forbid that this Parliament would assume the responsibility of determining whether private citizens are guilty or innocent of an alleged offence. Very competent tribunals have been established in the United Kingdom and in Australia to deal with these matters. If a charge is to be made, let it be made and if  Mr Stonehouse  is convicted let appropriate action follow. But until such time as he is convicted we are entitled- in fact we are obliged- to assume that he is innocent of any charge. 
Yes, the honourable member did specifically state that. He said he supported that concept but then he, and particularly his colleague the honourable member for Barker, launched a personal attack on the Minister for Labor and Immigration for not having done something to remove  Mr Stonehouse  from Australia. In other words the honourable member argues that the man is innocent until he is proven guilty but then wishes to apply the penalty before - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder!  That is not a point of order it is a matter of debate. 
I have no wish to do the same thing as I am accusing the Opposition of doing. I have no wish to misrepresent the honourable member. I am saying that the honourable member assumes the innocence of  Mr Stonehouse.  He admits that no criminal charge has been proven against him. But then he criticises the Minister for Labor and Immigration for not having taken action to remove  Mr 
Stonehouse from Australia when such action can be based only on the premise that  Mr Stonehouse  has committed some offence. That is the inference I got from what the honourable member said. I think it a reasonable impression that I have obtained. As we have seen over the years, there are 2 ways of administering the immigration laws. There is the tough, ruthless and cynical way, by saying: 'We are going to apply our administration in accordance with the very letter of the law without giving any effect to the spirit of the Migration Act', or it can be applied with some degree of kindness and understanding. I believe the Minister is applying it in the latter manner.  Mr Stonehouse  may be guilty of an offence. I have no knowledge of that. He may be guilty of all sorts of offences. None of us knows and surely we ought to wait to find out. It is not for us to determine what action the House of Commons will take in this matter. That is a matter for it. When it does take action the Minister can act in accordance with its decision. The Minister has made it clear that no crime against Australian law has been committed by  Mr Stonehouse.  He has committed no criminal offence against this community. No criminal charge has been laid against him under British laws. I think it the height of irresponsibility for these issues to be raised in this Parliament. This can serve only to prejudice the rights of citizens outside the Parliament. 
I am sure that had the honourable member for Warringah or the honourable member for Barker sought information concerning this matter in a sincere and genuine manner or for a sincere and genuine purpose that information would have been forthcoming privately from the Minister for Labor and Immigration. However they did not make inquiry on that basis. They sought to come into this Parliament to try to score some fairly cheap political points, in my view, about the conduct of the Minister for Labor and Immigration in respect of what is a sensational matter. I do not believe members of Parliament really give effect to the trust which is placed in them when they carry on in this way. 
I return to some of the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Barker, not that much of what he said deserves answer. He is drawing a very long bow and is basing his argument on false premises when he attempts to draw an analogy between allowing a member of a parliament of the British Commonwealth having a complete and unrestricted right to come into Australia against the decision of the Australian Government not to grant a visa to representatives of the Palestine Liberation Organisation or the South African Cricket Association. The South African cricket official has been refused a visa in accordance with the decisions of the United Nations Organisation and the International cricket authorities, and those who have looked at the question with more than a superficial glance would understand that to be true. The Government is correct in its attitude, and all reasonable people would believe that. The honourable member of Barker has tried to compare the situation of refusing members of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation a visa to enter Australia- I certainly make no apology for that; it was a very correct decision- and of refusing an official of the South African Cricket Association a visa to come to Australia with the situation with regard to  Mr Stonehouse.  He said: 'But you let  Mr Stonehouse  in'.  Mr Stonehouse  is here as a matter of right, and until such time as he resigns from the House of Commons or is convicted of some criminal offence, he has a right to stay. 
Unfortunately this morning the Minister for Labor and Immigration was forced to make a public disclosure that  Mr Stonehouse  will be required to remove himself within 3 days or suffer the consequences of his having been expelled or having resigned from the House of Commons. I believe, as I said previously, that this is an insensitive and irresponsible action, if ever there was one. I believe that the speech of the honourable member for Barker was a disgrace. He launched a vicious, personal attack on the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It was completely unjustified. He did not refer, except in passing, to the matter under discussion. I believe that the matter should not be treated seriously by this Parliament. I think that the Minister's actions are beyond reproach, that the Minister has shown himself to be one who has applied the immigration laws with understanding and tolerance, and that above all he has maintained the convention and upheld the law in respect of the rights of members of Parliament of the British Commonwealth of Nations to visit Australia with impunity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The discussion has concluded. 
I am shocked, disappointed and dismayed at the attitude of the Opposition towards this far-reaching legislation. It is another example of the Opposition's shabby and miserable role of obstruction. The Liberal-Country Party Opposition in this Parliament will go down as the people who exercised the methods of obstruction frustration, delay and deferment in its cynical campaign for power and in its cynical method of approach while it tries to settle itself down and to overcome its bitter internal fighting in order to present itself to the Australian people at a future election. Who is suffering? The people of Australia, the poor and the underprivileged are suffering whilst this campaign proceeds. I was absolutely disgusted by the contribution made in this debate by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  The honourable member for Bradfield had the audacity to accuse this Government of being morally bankrupt. What nerve for him, a representative of the Liberal Party, to make that outrageous proposition. Not content with that he and the honourable member for Parramatta set out on the favourite hobby horse of the Liberal and Country Parties to whip the Australian Public Service. 
The Australian population is very fortunate to have an efficient and highly-skilled public service which has served this nation well since Federation without scandal or any suggestion of corruption. Many countries envy Australia. It illbehoves irresponsible members of this Parliament to make unjustified attacks on the benefits that go to Australian public servants. When honourable members opposite accuse this Government of setting the pace I would simply say that if they look at the conditions which apply in some of the State public services, particularly in New South Wales, they will find that even after 2 years of this Government the Australian Public Service is still lagging behind. I ask honourable members opposite to look not at what the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  says about the proposed superannuation scheme for Australian public servants but at the benefits that are received in New South Wales. It is high time that at least this Government, after neglect by previous governments, did something to assist Australian public servants. 
If anybody has been morally bankrupt in the building industry it is not the present Minister for 
Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  because he and his colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  have done more in the last few months for the Australian building industry than the Opposition did in a quarter of a century. They have obtained the co-operation of Australian building unions to overcome the difficulties that were created by the sheer neglect of Liberal-Country Party governments in the past. For a generation too few skilled tradesmen have been trained in the building industry. For a generation building trade unions were telling Liberal-Country Party governments that a shortage of skilled tradesmen would occur because those governments were allowing a policy to develop whereby sufficient men were not being trained. It fell on deaf ears. Those governments ignored that advice in their cynical disregard for the needs of the Australian people. It has taken this Minister for Housing and Construction and the current Minister for Labor and Immigration to get the co-operation of those unions and the employers to train and retrain people in the industry. 
It is no use for the Opposition to talk about the funds that it makes available. Funds being made available at the appropriate rate of interest by the Opposition's rich and powerful friends outside this Parliament mean nothing if the skilled labour is not available to construct the houses and dwellings which are required. The honourable member for Bradfield criticised this Government for having the audacity to have a deficit budget. This is not the first deficit budget in Australia's history. 
-It is not the biggest. It is not the biggest deficit budget in the world either. Let me remind my ignorant friends from Cocky Corner who could not find their way outside a cow paddock that a man named Franklin Roosevelt in the height of the depression had to put up with the idiotic nonsensical criticism that they are putting up today. The calamity that he caused the world was to overcome the depression and get people back to work. When Country Party members put forward this sort of rubbish on economics they should think back. History has proved that the policy of the present Government is sound. The only time that deficit financing causes inflation is when there is an over.utilisation of resources. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they buy a book about economics instead of a book on how to raise cows and they might be able to make some contribution to this sort of debate. 
The honourable member for Parramatta challenged Government members to show how citizens of New South Wales, under a miserable Liberal-Country Party Government, had been discriminated against if they happened to be tenants. I shall be delighted to tell him. If his daddy will not tell him, I will. He ought to know or he should not be there. Let me tell the honourable member the facts of life. The Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales has left for dead the aged, the sick, the disadvantaged and the invalid who are forced to rent premises. They have no protection. People who have earned in recent years the fantastic sum of $80 a week are regarded by the New South Wales Government as wealthy tenants. They have no protection at all even though they may have lived in the same house for 30 years. These are the people who are being victimised. These are the people who cannot pay the rents that some of the honourable member's friends want to charge. These are the people who cannot stand up to the miserable, contemptible tactics in which some of his friends engage in order to remove them from their houses. 
If the honourable member denies it, I invite him to come with me and listen to the complaints that my friend,  Mr Einfield,  M.L.A., the member for Waverley, and I will be hearing from people at Bondi next Monday morning. There will be a queue of people who will complain. Tenants of private owned, rented housing are the forgotten people of this country. They have certainly been discriminated against in New South Wales. I note that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  is inclined to agree with me because I think he has a bit more soul than has the honourable member for Parramatta. I am glad to see that he has. 
-I regret,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that I accused the honourable member of having some compassion and of being concerned about people. I thought that he would, being the type of gentlemen he is, but now we see his real attitude. The people about whom I was speaking suffer real disadvantages. They are the people who are the least protected. Let me talk about the number of people involved. There are 930 000 rented dwellings in Australia. Of them 155 000 are owned by public housing authorities. This means that some 776 000 dwellings are privately owned and let for rent. Some 26 per cent of all dwellings are rented. More than 20 per cent of all dwellings are privately owned. The great bulk of them are subject to no protection at all. The landlord can charge what he likes. Those who seek to resist are subjected to harassment which would shock any reasonably minded member of this House, things like subjecting them to unwarranted noise and the tenants can do nothing about it; things like radios turned on at full blast in the next flat and left on all night; things like landlords making sure that no repairs are done. All types of harassment are engaged in and the New South Wales Government does, nothing about it. The honourable member for Parramatta has the colossal nerve to stand here and say that what the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  said is beyond proof. If the honourable member for Parramatta comes with me on Monday I will show him a score of places where this has occurred and where it is occurring at present. He will not come, because he does not want to see the error of his ways. He does not want to see the facts, because he may be forced to take a different line from the one that is dictated to him from outside this Parliament. 
I do not wish to take all my time in simply answering what honourable members opposite have said, because this legislation has so many fine and positive features associated with it. There is in Australia a middle group whose housing needs have been sadly neglected for far too long. Members of that group are too wealthy to qualify for public housing and too poor to provide a house for themselves. Their predicament is substantial. They become easy prey for the unscrupulous and greedy to exploit their position. There are families in which there must, of necessity, be 2 wage earners. Sometimes this result is achieved by the principal breadwinner having 2 jobs. The means test for public housing in New South Wales is quite severe. The waiting list has grown very long and continues to grow. Young married couples have been severely hit and disadvantaged. Both have to obtain employment in order to rent a home. Their difficulty is that their combined earnings disqualify them from consideration for public housing, but the rent to be paid requires them both to work. These people are truly on a treadmill. 
This Government has done more for public housing- more funds have been made available to State governments for public housing- than has any other government in Australia's history. Funds for States for housing have more than doubled under this Government. In 1972-73, $169m was made available for this purpose; in 1974-75 that sum has risen to $375m. Housing is a basic or essential need of life. For far too long national governments have been little more than casual observers in the field of housing. Gimmicks and stunts utilised by previous LiberalCountry Party governments did little to assist the genuine home seeker. Rents are rising very rapidly in Sydney at present. The Government will need to take action through the banking system to ensure that builders and developers gain finance to engage in urgently needed building construction work. Finance from hire purchase companies is now not available to many of these developers. 
Last year some 153 500 dwellings were built in Australia, which is a record for any Australian government since Federation. I think that this Government is entitled to take considerable credit from that achievement. This proposed Corporation could provide substantial assistance to the neglected, the under-privileged and those persons who are discriminated against and who are forced to pay rent at present. The Corporation could assist and encourage people to obtain essential independence and security by owning their own home. There are 2 main obstacles to the acquisition of a home by the ordinary person. The first is the capacity to repay the loan and the second is the inability to raise funds for a deposit. This second obstacle has been referred to by the Minister for Housing and Construction as the deposit gap. 
A survey conducted in September 1973 for the Minister for Housing and Construction showed that some 20 per cent of all purchasers of housing in Australia required a second mortgage. Since then costs have continued to increase, and this has meant a substantial increase in the difficulty experienced by some people in obtaining their first home. The introduction of tax deductibility of interest payments on home loans lifts some of the burden of repayments on those loans. It is interesting to know that even this social reform will be opposed by the LiberalCountry Party Opposition and perhaps withdrawn by a future Liberal-Country Party government if the day ever arrives when there is one. Overcoming the deposit gap poses a most difficult problem for most Australian home seekers. High interest rates as a result of inflation and world wide monetary trends have made prospective home buyers more cautious in negotiating loans. The rates charged for some loans on second mortgages are unconscionable. When we look at that and we look at the Opposition opposing this Bill and see what is proposed in it, we start to see where the money comes from; we start to see why the Opposition is opposed to the disclosure of contributions to political parties. It is because the hire purchase companies- those secondary institutions, the illegitimate children of the banks- the merchant banks, and the overseas finance corporations are opposed to this type of scheme. They are the ones who pay the Liberals and that is why the Opposition is opposed to this sort of proposition. 
Some young people are desperate for their first homes and have been fleeced by loan sharks. This proposal has a marked effect on interest rates charged on second mortgage loans. Other actions which have already been taken by the Government will also have some effect. The very significant increase in liquidity will overcome some of the difficulty in the availability of second mortgage finance and should result- and has already resulted- in some decrease in the rate of interest which can be obtained by lenders from borrowers. 
The availability of funds for second mortgage loans under this scheme at reasonable rates of interest will have a secondary as well as a primary effect. It will mean that there is an alternative source of funds available in addition to that source by which borrowers are fleeced and outraged. It will also be possible to gear the repayment of the second mortgage to the financial ability and capacity of the borrower. In some cases it is highly desirable, if not essential, to be able to arrange a deferral of the repayment. There are cases when this will not be attractive to borrowers but, for some, it will make the difference between being able to obtain a home for the first time and being forced to rent premises for an indefinite period. Consider the person who seeks a loan now from a terminating building society in New South Wales. Under the new means test- the means test adopted by this Government as distinct from its predecessorpersons who earn up to $ 1 36.80 a week will now qualify for loans under terminating building societies. 
-As the Minister says, at an interest rate of 5% per cent. If this Minister does nothing more in all the time that he will be Minister for Housing and Construction in this Parliament, he has done a great deal and has achieved a landmark in bringing these people into this area. 
I would like to have a little wager with my friend. The Minister has a long time to go indeed because he will not be replaced by people who advocate the sort of policies advocated by the honourable member for Parramatta. Irrespective of what he thinks the Australian people are not so dense that they cannot see through the nonsense he is advocating. A person who qualifies for a loan under a terminating building society will be able to borrow $17,250. Repayments under this scheme, even at such a favourable rate of interest, are about $102 a month. There is no way of buying a house in Sydney for that amount of money. In the foreseeable future, with the refusal of the New South Wales Government to participate in a land stabilisation scheme, it is unlikely that the price will fall. In fact the probability is, having regard to the policy of the Liberal-Country Party coalition government in New South Wales, that it will continue to escalate.. 
The problem is this: Having obtained that loan- it being insufficient to purchase a housethe borrower must find some other source of funds. If he saved $3000 he must borrow at least another $5000. This can impose a very heavy strain on the young married couple. The new method of payment- the deferred payment scheme- deserves immediate and serious consideration. There is provision for it in this Bill. Perhaps a new structuring of loan repayment is required. 
I am happy to be advised by the Minister that the Government is giving very careful and serious consideration to the methods by which such schemes may be achieved. An alternative might be to direct second mortgage loans to appropriate lenders for on-lending, as it were, to approved borrowers. Perhaps the mortgagee can provide 75 per cent or 80 per cent of the funds and the Housing Corporation the balance. 
I congratulate the Minister on his foresight in bringing this legislation into this House. I am sure this House will adopt it. I appeal to members of the Opposition to think again, to think about the poor, the underprivileged and the disadvantaged, before they coerce their colleagues in another place to vote against this very socially desirable measure. I ask them to think of the elderly people and to give the battler ago. 
-The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  has made a very cynical speech in this Parliament. I find it very difficult indeed to sit silently and accept an attack made upon a man such as the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  in the manner in which the honourable member for Riverina made it. He did not have the decency, the courage or the propriety to advise the Minister that he intended to make the attack. He made it here today under privilege and, in a cruel and cynical manner, imputed improper motives to the Minister for Science who had the decency to go to Indo-China in order to bring help and succour to those who are suffering. It ill behoves the honourable member for Riverina to make such cynical attack and then scutter out of this chamber before it could be answered. 
I believe that what we have seen today is indicative of what is happening among the Opposition parties. There is no doubt that there has been a sharp veer to the right- a dangerous move for the people of Australia. Today we heard the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  make an attack on those who are unable to answer for themselves, those who are the victims of unemployment in this country. In his wild and sweeping assertions he cast doubt on every one of them, almost suggesting that large numbers of them are guilty of fraud against the Commonwealth and the Australian people. I deny that proposition categorically and I call on him to prove his assertion, if he can. Of course we all know that in every community there are some who will engage in fraud and deception. We know that at regular intervals such persons are prosecuted. 
But today I want to refer to the changed attitude of the Liberal Party and its new Leader to industrial relations. If one looks back through the Press reports of the attitudes of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on certain industrial relations questions during the few months of this year one finds some very interesting things. 
-He has not got me worried; I can tell the honourable member that. In fact I congratulate the Opposition on electing him as Leader because I think that he represents a view which is completely unacceptable to 80 per cent of the Australian people. On 1 4 January this year the 'Australian Financial Review' carried a story headed  'Mr Fraser  opts for a trade union confrontation'. A headline in the 'Australian' of 4 March 1975 was: 'Lib plan to bring back union fines'. The 'Australian Financial Review' of 14 February carried the headline: ' Fraser 's tough union stance'. On 2 1 March 1975 the Melbourne 'Herald' carried the headline: 'Unions uneasy about Fraser'. On 23 January the 'West Australian' carried the headline: 'Challenge by Fraser to unions'. Is this the same man who really claims that what he seeks to do is to get conciliation, to have an understanding, to get peace in industry? What does he say? An article which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review 'states: . . . Malcolm Fraser, to move the Opposition's industrial relations policy towards an uncompromising confrontation against union militancy. 

 Mr Fraser is circulating a 14page document among influential industrialists and employers throughout the country advocating an effective return to penal provisions, a powerful industrial 'police force '-type operation and an elaborate framework for settling disputes that would make direct action virtually impossible within envisaged new industrial legislation. 
I know that the honourable gentleman showed his program to a number of prominent industrialists and a number of senior management people and they all told him what to do with his document. They told him to file it away, to put it away for posterity, to put it where it would do no harm because they knew, and all sensible observers knew, that if his proposals were ever enacted, or attempted to be enacted, in legislation such action would lead to a confrontation of significant proportion. 
A newspaper article, referring to the preamble to the proposals of the Leader of the Opposition, states: 'There is overwhelming evidence around Australia,' it claims, 'that employers will not initiate any action that could lead to penalties on unions '. 
But the Leader of the Opposition apparently knows better than that. He knows that that is because the employers are weak and only he is strong. The article goes on to state: 'Further, there is the feeling that the commission is awarding what it considers the unions will accept and not what it thinks is appropriate. ' 
That is a serious allegation of impropriety against the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by a person who at that stage was the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations and who is now the Leader of the Opposition in the Australian Parliament. The honourable gentleman ought to clear this matter up quick and lively. He should not leave a threat, as it were, hanging over the head of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Briefly, the Fraser plan will result in unwarranted and unwanted interference in industrial relations by a future Liberal-Country Party government The honourable gentleman and the Liberal Party deny the concept of individual and collective responsibility for the parties to industrial agreements and awards. According to the Liberal program he will set up an industrial inspectorate with extravagant powers- powers to penalise individual employees, powers to penalise and fine individual union leaders and powers to fine and penalise individual employers with or without the consent of the other party. If these proposals were implemented we would see in Australia the emergence of a kind of industrial Gestapo where someone knows better than the parties concerned, where a governmentappointed individual inspector will have the power to penalise an employee for a breach of an award even though the employer does not want this action to be taken. 
We have the spectacle where irrespective of circumstances it will be possible for one of the Liberal-appointed inspectors to seek to fine a union official in the performance of his duty even presumably if that union official is trying to reach a settlement of an industrial dispute because the union is technically in breach of the law. There are honourable gentlemen sitting opposite who understand something- not much- about industrial relations. There are some who .have had some little experience in this field and they would know that there are many occasions when disputes occur spontaneously on the factory floor and the union officials are the people who have those disputes resolved. 
Members of the Liberal Party want compulsory voting in trade union elections but they throw their hands up in horror when there is any suggestion that there ought to be compulsory membership of unions. So we have the spectacle under their proposal of, on the one hand, a person who says that he will not join a trade union, who does not vote, who does not pay anything, who does not take any part in union affairs at all and who has committed no breach, and on the other hand, a person who joins a union on a voluntary basis, who attends every union meeting for a period of 5 years, who pays his union dues and plays an active part in the union but who, because he forgets to vote in a union election, can be fined under this ludicrous and stupid proposal. There is never any suggestion that there should be compulsory voting for the election of directors of companies. In fact I find it incredible that the Liberal Party in New South Wales in one breath says there shall not be compulsory voting in local government elections and in the next breath turns around and says that there shall be compulsory voting in trade union elections. I am not opposed to the concept but I do not believe that it can be taken in isolation in the ludicrous way that the Liberal Party is suggesting. 
The Australian work force is not about to accept these proposals. There will be confrontation. The Australian work force, the employees of this country, are not about to pay homage to the master on horseback. The Australian employees and their employers want a rational, sensible and intelligent industrial relations policy from their Government. 
-There is probably no other clause in this Bill that so starkly illustrates the gap between the Opposition and the Government on electoral reform as this clause. It comes down broadly to these terms. The Government seeks to have electoral reform whereby citizens of Australia in casting their votes will be able to do so with knowledge, with understanding, being able to identify clearly the persons who are offering themselves for election. This particular clause of the Bill is an integral part of that total program of the Government, and it is significant that the Opposition parties in this Parliament, the Liberal and Country Parties, have consistently opposed these proposals, no matter whether they be the disclosure of electoral funds, the method by which electorates are to be distributed within Australia or, as in this particular case, the mere identification of candidates. What possible opposition can there be in logical terms to advising electors of the political affiliations of candidates for whom they are voting? Why is it that the Opposition is so vigorously opposed to a clause which does no more than that? It is all very well to try to draw red herrings across the trail, but the simple reality is that the Opposition thrives on ignorance because when the population is well informed and is able to identify the parties on whose behalf particular candidates are nominated then the Opposition fears the result, and I believe it stands exposed. Opposition members can raise all sorts of side issues if they wish. This particular clause is as clear as it is possible to make it, and I congratulate the Minister on again bringing the proposal before this Parliament. If it is rejected in another place on this occasion, I hope the Minister will bring it forward again because there will be a time when this Parliament will see the overwhelming logic and wisdom involved in this proposition. 
The simple proposal is that parties should be registered for the purpose of safeguarding the integrity of the name of the party and to prevent abuse, distortion and deception. That is what it is all about. The proposal does not prohibit in any way a genuine party from being registered; in no way does it prevent a legitimate party and a candidate on its behalf from being identified on the ballot paper. The restrictions are no more than are necessary to protect the integrity of the name chosen by any political party. It would be grossly unfair to allow a new party to assume the name of a party already in existence. In other words, this clause does no more than guarantee to a political party that it shall have the same rights to its name as a partnership, a trust, a firm or a company once it registers its name under appropriate legislation. What does the Opposition say about that? What does it say about the registration of business names? Does it oppose that? Of course it does not oppose it, but it opposes this provision for the simple reason that it does not want the Australian people to know who the Liberals are. 
I agree with the Minister. We cannot blame them but we ought to expose them, because that is what the Opposition is all about. 
My friend opposite interjects because he does not want anyone to know, if it is possible to avoid it, that he is in the Country Party. 
If the honourable member becomes well enough known he will find that he is known too well. I do not blame him for wanting to keep the name of his Party away from association with his name. On a personal basis, the honourable member may get a few votes. If the electors know that he represents the Country Party, he will be struggling. That, I believe, is the basis of this opposition. The Opposition believes that people should be kept in the dark; they should not be told all of the facts. 
I believe that the Committee ought to adopt this clause. I sincerely and seriously suggest to the Opposition that it ought to re-think its attitude. To coin an expression which is well known, it ought to think again about this proposal. Really, in all seriousness, this is a legitimate and proper proposal. How often have those of us who stand outside polling booths on election day seen the confusion that some people have? How often have all honourable members, as I certainly have, felt the confusion of persons who are voting by post, who wish to vote absentee, and do not know for which Party a particular candidate is standing. Surely honourable members opposite either ought to be reasonable about the matter or ought to stand up, be counted, and expose their attitudes for what they really are. The attitude of the Opposition to this proposal is an attitude designed to achieve the deception of the electorate. If Opposition members oppose this clause again, they may rest assured that their attitude will be explained to the electorate. They can do their best in respect of that matter, but they have a responsibility in this Parliament and they must accept that responsibility if this clause is blocked. I believe that the proposition should be carried. I hope that the Opposition will not continue its obstruction of what is a most desirable reform. 
-Having listened to the contributions made this afternoon by Opposition speakers in the debate on these Bills, one can come quickly to the realisation that nothing has changed on the Opposition side. We have a few new faces but we have the same old worn out policies. The whinging and wailing is to the fore again. Opposition members criticise and complain, but they never offer a constructive solution. That seems to be the hallmark of the Opposition, irrespective of who leads it and irrespective of where its members went to school. All honourable members opposite preach the same gospel of despair and advance the same argument of criticism, the same negative, backward looking pessimism by which they hope to attract the support of the Australian people. They have no faith in Australia or in Australians, and Australians have no confidence in them. That is why the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is destined to remain in that position for as long as his colleagues will have him; he is not going to be transferred by the Australian people from that side of the table to this side. The huff and puff philosophy is still paramount under the Liberal plan. The way ahead, presumably, is to be powered by the huffing and puffing of the Opposition front bench. Soon they will run out of their huff and their puff and they will find that the Australian electorate will have nothing to do with such negative, pessimistic individuals. 
Australian industry has its difficulties. Australian industry leaders understand that in the last generation there has not been a government which has had such a concern for the well being of industry, to ensure the growth of efficient productive industry in this country, as has the present Whitlam Government. They know that there are people in Canberra today who are willing to help to ensure that the industrial resources of this nation are used to their maximum capacity. Of course there are economic difficulties and of course they are substantial and complex. When one listens to the naivety of the Opposition members one wonders whether they know anything at all about the subject about which they have been talking for so long. 
Inflation is a problem which is affected by world events, whether they like it or not. I have never been one to suggest that inflation is exclusively an imported problem. Those who say and argue that world events have no bearing on the current inflation in Australia and have no effect on the current unemployment in Australia are fools or ignorant people- one or the other. They simply do not understand or they are engaged in a campaign of duplicity. I believe that as events pick up, as economic activity is revived in the rest of the world, unemployment certainly will be reduced. But this Government is left with a tragic, desperate legacy from previous governments over the last generation. That legacy is that whenever there is full utilisation of all those offering their services for work and employment there is inevitably an acute shortage of skilled labour. If one overcomes the acute shortage of skilled labour there is a surplus of unskilled labour available for employment. 
The guilty men sit opposite- the men who refused to encourage apprenticeship training, the men who refused to build technical institutions, the men who refused and did not care to encourage the training of more skilled employees in this country. Under this Government more money, in massive amounts, is being made available for technical education and industrial training. Presumably the Opposition would reduce that amount of money. Where is the cockatoo chorus tonight? Where are those who for 23 years neglected training in technical education in the non-metropolitan area? Yet they stand and criticise the expenditure of funds. They know that they are guilty of the crime of forcing young men and women out of country towns into the cities because there is no employment there for them. They know that one of the primary reasons why there has not been decentralisation of manufacturing industry into non-metropolitan areas has been the almost complete absence of facilities for training the work force. They cannot cover their guilt by attempting to attack this Government. Most of their attacks have been illfounded and ill-advised. 
Members of the Opposition will find that the answer to inflation is not to be found in the union bashing Fraser plan. That is no answer to the current economic difficulties. They will find that out to their regret and to the sorrow of the Australian economy and the Australian society. In the past months, and particularly in recent weeks, the Opposition has criticised deficit financing as though this were some cardinal error or some cardinal sin against all economic philosophy. Was it not the late Franklin Roosevelt who suffered the same criticism as he engaged in deficit financing to pull the world out of the greatest depression in history? Was he not criticised by the same ignorant arguments that are being advanced here today? In any event I want to hear the Opposition specify in what areas it would reduce the deficit financing. Surely honourable members opposite understand that money is merely a means of exchange. Surely they understand that what is required in any advanced society not in the grips of the rich and powerful few is to ensure that all the resources, both human and technical, are utilised for the production of goods and services for the benefit of the community. 
What is all this double talk we hear? Six months ago Opposition members complained bitterly about the so-called credit squeeze. They said 'Make more money available. Get the money out. Release the brakes on credit. ' Today they are saying: 'There is too much money around. The Government must close the floodgates and stop the printing press. ' I do not understand what they mean because they are not being very frank. What I suspect they mean is that part of this plan is to put the employee back in his place, to put the employee back where he belongs, to reduce his bargaining strength. No price is too high so far as they are concerned to ensure that that result can be obtained. Presumably they would introduce a credit squeeze forthwith, because that is what it means when they say: 'Stop the printing press'. They mean: 'Make less funds available for community development. Make less funds available for industry.' Do they mean that they will cut expenditure on education or on industrial training? Do they mean they will cut the funds available for health care or do they mean that they will reduce in real terms the level of social security and other pensions? Is it that they mean that the Government was wrong in reducing income tax, because that has an immediate effect on the size of the deficit, or do they mean that the Government should not have reduced sales tax on motor vehicles? Do they mean that the Government should desist from assisting industry to keep going? 
Those who argue that the increase in the price of oil had no effect on the Australian economy are foolish people indeed or else they are dishonest- one or the other. Every economist throughout the world, every government leader in the western world, recognises that the oil price rise has had a significant effect on the world price of basic goods and services, and this country is certainly no exception. They also recognise, those who can see, read and hear, that it has had an enormous effect on the whole question of world financial liquidity. Because between $80,000m and $90,000m extra changed hands there was a world liquidity problem and we suffered our share of that effect. That situation is being corrected rapidly. There is an up turn in economic activity around the world. Many countries are following the lead which was given by this Government- a lead for action for which the Government was criticised but which has found favour in the rest of the world. 
-I find myself in disagreement with some of the statements made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  I think it ought to be clear when we are discussing this matter that it is as important- perhaps more important- for this 
Parliament to protect the public interest as it is for it to protect the interests of its members. I think that is something that can easily be overlooked in this situation. I do not regard a citizen who comes forward to uphold the Constitution and to require members of this Parliament to abide by the Constitution as being a smart alec or a pimp. Frankly, whilst the legal term 'Common informer' may still be appropriate, I do not think it is appropriate to use it as a derogatory term in respect of a person who insists that his parliamentary representative or parliamentary representatives of the Australian people adhere to the law which governs this Par.liament 
I believe that this Bill should be supported. While it is true that it will protect members of Parliament against technical breaches or unwitting breaches of the Constitution, it also should be clear that it may well protect people who are guilty of quite deliberate braches of the Constitu  te.  We in this Parliament have to be very astute in ensuring that what  we do is  not misunderstood. We have to be very astute- I congratulate the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  on this- in ensuring that we retain the provision for common informer proceedings to be taken because it is impossible, as we have seen elsewhere in the world, for misdeeds to be covered up for lengthy periods. We have seen in the United State of America, which has very many checks and balances and perhaps more public participation in political affairs than we have in Australia, an instance in which it was possible for massive swindles and a massive scandal to be covered up for a considerable period. 
As the Minister for Labor and Immigration said, it was even possible for the  President  and the Vice-President of the United States of America and members of the President's staff- people who were in the sanctuary, as it were, of American political reputationto be involved in this massive scandal. 
The other point I want to raise is this: A period of 12 months may be appropriate for retrospective action. Frankly, I would have some reservations about this. I do not know where that period came from, but obviously the Attorney-General finds it appropriate to be inserted in this Bill. Until very recently public servants who would have knowledge of misdeeds by members of this Parliament were refused the right to speak out. They could not disclose impropriety or breaches of the Constitution by members of the Parliament, for fear of losing their reputations. I would be much more impressed if members of this Parliament had been equally concerned to protect their rights in this sort of situation. But they were not. Only recently have public servants been given this right. In those circumstances, 12 months might be an appropriate period, provided that this Parliament guarantees immunity to any officer or employee of the Australian Government who comes forward with an allegation. 
I also hope that this Parliament will be concerned to ensure that a person who does take an action against a member of this House or a member of another place will have protection in respect of costs. If that person has a prima facie case, I sincerely hope that there will be provision, which I do not see in this Bill, for that person's costs in that litigation to be met by the Crown. 
I shall not delay the House for long in respect of this Conciliation and Arbitration Bill as it appears there is no opposition to its provisions. But the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  raised some questions which deserve answering. I think there are one or two other aspects of the Bill which should be brought out. First of all the honourable member for Corangamite asked why the Government had double standards, why under this particular division of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act it had different standards for air crews from those it had for other persons. The Government obviously is attempting to have uniformity throughout the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the way it is rather than the way in which it would prefer the provisions to be. Frankly, I see nothing wrong and no room for criticism and nothing reprehensible in the Government's seeking to have uniformity. 
The honourable member for Coorangamite  (Mr Street)  does not contest that. The only thing that needs to be said about this is that the Opposition's policy is somewhat inconsistent in that when it was in government it introduced a new method, new procedures, under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and introduced what has commonly been called the panel system where panels of arbitrators are established for the conciliation and resolution of industrial disputes. 
I believe that the provisions set in 1 95 1 are not completely appropriate in the current circumstances. When the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  brings amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act into this Parliament they deserve better consideration and more sympathetic consideration than the Opposition has been prepared to give them, particularly in light of the experience gained by practitioners and others who particpate in the conciliation and arbitration procedure. After aU, experience is a very great tutor. I can recall being vigorously opposed to the 1 95 1 amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which introduced the right of appeal from . decisions of Conciliation Commissioners. I participated in trade union conferences and congresses of the Australian Council of Trade Unions which unanimously rejected those provisions and opposed them. However, I can well recall having been very pleased that the provision for appeal was in the Act and I am not too shy to say now that provisions which I opposed vigorously in 1951 I was very pleased to use in the middle 1960s with, I might add with due humility some success. There has been need for provisions for appeal. Some of those appeals have been successful and trade unions which vigorously opposed the introduction of appeals were subsequently pleased to use those provisions. So we should not be too hidebound in respect of provisions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and we in this Parliament ought to be prepared to learn by our experience and from the experience of others. 
What this Bill does is very simple. It seeks to give the parties to arbitration proceedings under the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal the same right of appeal and the same right to seek a reference to the Full Bench as any other party to proceedings under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That is to be commended. It is appropriate when this matter is being debated to refer specifically and briefly to industrial relations in the airline industry. Anybody who understands what has been occurring over recent years in the airline industry- and I can speak from personal experience- knows that industrial relations have not been good. In fact they have been far from good, and a good deal of outside political interference has been engendered into the airline industry. That has come to be regarded as normal. 
I can go back to the time when  Mr Leslie  Bury was the Minister for Labour and National Service and when he and others who administered that portfolio were heavily involved in directing negotiations in the airline industry. One thing which is paramount is the integrity of the negotiations, and in this industry that has not always been apparent. Parties are not always satisfied that the offer from airline companies is a genuine offer and they are far from satisfied that when an offer is made as a final settlement it is the final offer of the employers. Employee organisations of various kinds right across the industrial spectrum have come to believe, and have strong evidence to support the belief, that without a stoppage of work or without a strike of some duration the proper, genuine offer will not be made. In this regard I put the Australian Government's airline, Trans-Australia Airlines, at the top of the tree. In my view and from my experience, it has been reluctant to make a final offer in settlement of an industrial dispute until such time as there has been a stoppage or an imminent stoppage has been threatened. There have been obvious examples of negotiations taking place in strange places and of determinations of wage rates and other conditions being made in very strange ways. This normal conduct of expecting a strike before a genuine offer for settlement is made breeds its own problems, and I hope that this amendment to the Act will do something to overcome that. 
However, the real difficulty is to have all the parties to airline industry disputes which occur from time to time prepared to accept and abide by decisions of the tribunal. This provision, which will now provide the capacity for appeal against wrong decisions and the capacity to seek a reference of particularly contentious matters to a Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission, may well have some effect. I believe that some decisions of TAA and Ansett Airlines of Australia in recent times have been quite contrary to what the Government has been trying to achieve in a rational wages policy. I want to say here and now that I do not agree with the honourable member for Coorangamite or with those who lead his coalition when they say that the Government has been arguing for wage restraint. Frankly, I do not think that he or other members of this Parliament who advocate wage restraint as such appreciate the full implication of the term or really mean wage restraint in the way that trade unions accept it. A trade unionist understands wage restraint to mean that he will take less while profits continue to increase. In other words, he believes that to be asked to accept wage and salary restraint is to be asked to accept a reduction in real living standards. That is not the Government's policy and I do not believe it is the policy of the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations. 
What the Government is asking for here, what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been asking for and what the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has been asking for, is a rational wages policy and I hope that employers in the airline industry will take note and will attempt to provide offers and settlements which are consistent with a rational wages policy rather than apply a 'fix-it' mentality which causes distortions, disputes and anomalous situations between groups of workers and hence industrial disputation. 
I appreciate that. I merely ask that when honourable members opposite speak of wage restraint they take the time to spell it out a little more clearly rather than adopt the media term or the shorthand phrase 'wage restraint' which is capable of being, and is, completely misunderstood by trade unionists who understand it to mean something entirely different from what I assume the Opposition means and certainly something entirely different from what I and honourable members on this side of the House mean. I am glad that there is perhaps some common ground in that regard. 
Let us look at what has happened in the 2 years between December 1972 and December 1974. Let us also look at the figures given by the Prime Minister in this Parliament just over a week ago. The consumer price index rose by 3 1 .6 per cent; average weekly earnings rose by 46.8 per cent; male minimum award rates rose by 53 per cent; and female minimum award rates rose by 75 per cent. But having in mind those enormous increases in money wages, we then look to see the result in real terms. In real terms before tax, the worker is only 1 1.5 per cent better off for having gained an almost 47 per cent increase in his average weekly earnings. After tax, he is merely 7.3 per cent better off. This of course is not really achieving anything except economic difficulty. If we work with the trade union movement- I hope that the Opposition will do its best to assist in this regard- to work out a rational wages POliCY which will continue to improve the real living standards, the real wages of wage and salary earners. I believe we could then start to get somewhere in respect of the factor of wages and salaries in the cost push inflation situation. The worker is no better off; he is only 7.3 per cent better off by having his wages increased by 46.8 per cent. So we have a cost increase of almost 6.5 times the value of the wage increase to the individual employee. I believe that this is a complicated industry. I do not want to take up the full time available to me to speak, but I wish to stress that the industry is complicated. 
There is provision in the Act for an organisation to be deemed a declared organisation, that is, an unregistered organisation. In respect to pilots, the Australian Federation of Airline Pilots could be brought within the provisions of the Act. Thus we have an organisation which is an unwilling participant within the arbitration system. Another union- the Airline Pilots Guild of Australia- has sought and obtained registration. It comes within the system, but it is unrepresentative of its class; it has so few pilots as members that it cannot be said to be representative. I believe that arbitration or conciliation procedures are meaningless unless there is some prospect of the decisions being carried out. 
Arbitral decisions which are not accepted are not of much use to the community or to the parties to a particular industrial dispute. It is with a hope that these amendments will do something to assist in this regard that I speak in their support. I also hope that those who have the responsibility for negotiating as the employing authority in the industry will adopt a more responsible role and will be prepared to act with integrity when they make offers and seek to overcome the enormous difficulty which has been bred in this industry through irresponsible action by representatives of the employing authorities; that is to say, when the parties sit down at the negotiating table and somebody says, 'This is the final offer, this is the offer which we genuinely believe to be reasonable', that can be accepted as an offer made with integrity. I am sad and sorry to say that that is not the position today. I hope that that is a position which can be rectified without much further delay. 
-Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the reaction of business to the fine of $100,000 imposed upon the Sharp Corporation for breaches of the Trade Practices Act relating to misleading advertising? Can the Attorney-General tell the House if business is cooperating in the implementation of this Act? 
I was very interested to notice the participation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this debate. I gained the impression that perhaps he wants to keep his hand in in case there is another change of leadership. It was more than interesting for him to confess, as he did, that some attention should have been given to trade union training by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government.  His  excuse sounded very hollow indeed when he said that no proposal for such trade union training was made by the then Opposition. He ignored the fact that a number of individual unions did in fact ask Government representatives at various stages to introduce such a scheme. He also supported the proposition that trade union training should be catered for through the normal tertiary education institutions. Of course, he pointed to the fact that the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia presently conducts courses through universities or other tertiary institutions. For his information, several other unions do likewise. The reason for that is that at the present time there is no alternative, and although they are very valuable courses and have made a very valuable contribution to the education of trade union officials at all levels, they are nonetheless not the most desirable form of trade union training. This scheme is designed to provide trade union training at a very desirable level. 
I think it is important to realise that Australia has a unique system of industrial regulation. It is a complex system. Many people shy away from it because they do not understand it; others reject it because of their ignorance. I do not believe that it serves any useful purpose in debates of this kind to stray from the point. All of us ought to be concerned to make some realistic contribution to what we are trying to correct. In Australia we have built up this mystique about arbitration, many times forgetting that conciliation precedes arbitration, both in the Constitution and in the statute. We are also inclined to overlook the fact that there is a dichotomy of power between the State parliaments and the national Parliament. The Australian Parliament can legislate only in respect of interstate disputes, and then only to establish means for the settlement of industrial disputes that extend beyond the limits of any one State. We should recognise that by way of practice the various State legislatures have had a monopoly in the fields of workers' compensation, safety procedures- in the main- and, to some extent, long service leave. This situation creates difficulties in that an employee, a shop steward, a junior trade union official and even a senior trade union official have to look at 2 sets of statutes, State and national, in order to ascertain the rights and obligations of the union and its members. 
In the arbitration field we have built up a system which relies very heavily on precedent and which has certain procedures that change and are different as between various arbitration tribunals. All of this creates great difficulties in understanding, and many trade unionists fail to comprehend what the system is all about. In their failure to understand it, they more often than not reject it as a lot of mumbo jumbo which is tied up with legalisms that are designed really to frustrate the best interests and legitimate aspirations of the worker and his union. This new system of colleges that is proposed in the legislation will help to overcome the difficulties to which I have referred. 
In the short time available to me I wish to refer to another quite separate difficulty, namely, that of new settlers who come to Australia from far away places, such as the United Kingdom, western, southern and eastern Europe, and parts of Asia. In every one of those places there is a vastly different system of industrial regulation. When Opposition members, and perhaps Government members, want to condemn as irresponsible the activities of shop stewards and want to say that such activities are a derogation of union authority- as they clearly are when so-called wild-cat strikes occur- let them understand that some of the responsibility for such activities rests on this Parliament and its members. People who come to Australia from the United Kingdom, where the system is such that the shop steward is a power unto himself on the factory floor, fail to understand why some person, whether a trade union official or an employer organisation representative, who is very far removed from the work place, should be able to dictate to them what they should do. 
When one talks about arbitration tribunals one is speaking almost in a foreign tongue to shop stewards from Great Britain who have come to Australia to make it their home. These people need to be given the opportunity, at least, to understand our system. The present Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will not have to confess to a future parliament, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had to confess this afternoon, his inadequacy and neglect in this very important field, because the Minister and this Government have taken the initiative to try to cure some of these ills. New settlers also have enormous difficulties in understanding the language, the idiom and the legal form in which awards and industrial agreements are written. 
It is essential that those who negotiate agreements or appear before industrial tribunals be trained to a standard of equal efficiency to enable them to exploit their equal ability and to be as well informed as those who appear against them. Well-trained negotiators on both sides are essential to good industrial relations. It is equally essential, hi my view, to have rank and file trade unionists trained in the procedures that this Parliament has laid down over the years. The Australian community spends large sums of money in training people in industrial relations by means of various courses conducted at the universities in various Australian cities. But most of those people go to individual companies, employer organisations or government. Very few of those who have had the benefit of community expenditure on training in the field of industrial relations go into the trade union movement. This situation has all of the essential ingredients for a complete breakdown in the system of industrial regulation as we know it. 
There must be no competence gap, if you like, between employee and employer representatives in conciliation and arbitration proceedings and negotiations. It is in the public interest that both sides be represented with equal ability and by persons with equal training. The fact that the Australian Government spends $2m on a graduate school of management at the University of New South Wales is alone sufficient justification for the introduction of this Bill. I put it that that course at that institution has no greater value to the community than the trade union college proposed in this legislation would have. I support the proposition put forward by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I sincerely hope that it will not only be carried by this House but also receive a speedy passage through this Parliament 
I thank the House. The editorial is headed 'Liberals opt for electoral folly'. One could not put it any clearer. This was the opportunity for there to be equity and justice in electoral laws. This was an opportunity for the Liberal Party to stand on its own feet, to try to regain some of its lost honour, to try to regain some of its integrity and some of its reputation which has become so tarnished in recent months and years. But no. With the weight of the funds of the miners and the foreign corporations that want to exploit the resources of this country behind it, the National Country Party cracked the whip and the little fledglings in the Liberal Party  danced to its tune. I support the adoption of the Commissioners' report. 
-Is the Special Minister of State aware of the severe difficulties being experienced by residents of Sydney's eastern suburbs as the result of very substantial increases in municipal rates and other local government charges? As these charges are causing severe hardship to some citizens and may have the effect of forcing some aged persons out of homes that they have occupied for a lifetime, will the Minister state what assistance the Australian Government is giving local government bodies? 
Further, can the Minister indicate whether Sydney's residents can expect any early stabilisation of these charges? 
-Most honourable members in Parliament will be filled with a sense of disgust after listening to the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony).  Two broad features emerge from his speech. Firstly, he is not prepared to discuss the proposals with logic and reason. Rather, he is prepared to try to condemn the proposals by using smear, innuendo and slander. 
-The second thing which emerges is that the Leader of the NCP is not only condemning proposals made by the Australian Labor Party but also attacking, vigorously and viciously, proposals which were made to the Distribution Commissioners by his brothers and colleagues in politics, the members of the Liberal Party. In a moment I shall show why that attack has been made. Much of the criticism which the Leader of the NCP has levelled against this report could just as validly be levelled against the submissions made to the Commission by the Liberal Party. What a cowardly lot are the authors of the Liberal plan. They will sit here tonight meekly, humbly, deceitfully, and allow the Distribution Commissioners to be attacked for following suggestions made by the Liberal Party. They lack the courage to stand up and justify their own actions. What a deceitful lot they are. Surely, having led the Commissioners into doing those things which they advocated, they should have the decency to defend the Commissioners when they are attacked with slander and misrepresentation by the National Country Party and its leaders. 
I challenge any member of the Opposition to deny that the Distribution Commissioners- each and all of them- are men of integrity. Their honesty is beyond reproach. Yet honourable members opposite dare to stand up and say that this is some plot. It is a plot to give equality of representation and to provide as near as practicable a means of ensuring that every vote cast will have the same value. The Leader of the National Country Party says that it is a vicious plot against the country people. It is a plot to achieve equality and a plot to preserve democracy. Let honourable members opposite come out in their true colours. On that occasion the Liberals stood with us, but they do not have the courage to do it now. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  is now shaking his head. He should be careful; it will rattle. 
The Liberals put forward a proposal from which they now seek to hide. I will show honourable members what they did. The Country Party made no substantive submission. It was not going to make any submission. The Leader of the Country Party said: 'We were not going to make any submission because we knew the ground rules'. The Country Party soon made one when it saw the Liberals' proposal. It could not get near the Distribution Commissioners quick enough. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  drummed up 10 000 objections and checked to see that all of them were placed before the Distribution Commissioners. There had been none beforehand. Of course, the Liberals are now attacking the proposal. Their proposal was a gerrymander against the Country Party, against the Labor Party and for the Liberals. They now hide from it but their proposal was a gerrymander. Of course, we all know that hell hath no fury like the Liberal scorned. They now want to attack, and attack viciously, the defenceless men who are not present tonight- the Distribution Commissioners. 
The Liberals now want to introduce a new procedure in voting for the Australian Parliament. They want to divide the State into regions. Those of us who are from New South Wales know what that means. That is the way by which the Askin-Lewis forces have been able to gerrymander New South Wales. The Leader of the Country Party said that there might have to be another redistribution in 2 years time- that is not necessarily so; but he claimed that- and said: 'Is it not odd to have a redistribution so quickly?' The Liberal and Country Parties in New South Wales have one before every election. In other words, before an election comes round they get hold of the gallup polls and take all the samplings to see how many they are short and whip through a new distribution. What do you know- they always win. Despite that their supporters come here and suggest that the Labor Government is engaged in some gerrymander and attack the integrity of the Distribution Commissioners. 
Let me explain the sneaky, deceitful plot that the Liberals tried to perpetrate. Let me show honourable members how the Country Party's criticism of the Distribution Commissioners' proposal is so ill-founded. I take as an example the electorate of Gwydir. The Distribution Commissioners have suggested an electorate of 64 882 electors. The Liberals suggested an electorate of 67 650 electors. I turn to the electorate of Paterson. In another deceitful plot the Liberals were going to whip the electorate of Paterson away from the Country Party because it was not making any submissions and pinch it for themselves. What did they do? They put forward almost the same figures as we did.  (Quorum formed).  In relation to the electorate of Paterson the Distribution Commissioners have suggested that there should be 63 348 electors. The Liberals suggested that there should be 67 433. For the electorate of New England the Distribution Commissioners have suggested that there should be 62 230 electors. The Liberals suggested that there should be 66 179. Where is the spite and the spleen to be vented now? Not on the Distribution Commissioners, who proposed electorates substantially less in number than those suggested by the Liberals in their sneaky, deceitful plan. Is it any wonder that they have been caught out by the Country Party and have been told to stand up and be counted. They have again reneged, they have again buckled at the knees under the weight of the Country Party's whip. They dance to the tune of the Country Party and the funds produced by the miners. 
In December 1962 there was a dress rehearsal of tonight's episode. On that occasion the Liberal Party. Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, brought a proposal before this Parliament and the Leader of the Country Party at that stage-  Mr McEwen  as he then was- opposed it and the Liberals walked away. Let me tell honourable members also about the so-called bias of the Labor Party against country interests and country people. The Liberals suggested the abolition of 2 Country Party seats in New South Wales- Riverina and Hume. They did the same thing in relation to other States. The Liberals suggested that those 2 seats be abolished. The 2 honourable members who hold those seats have stunned looks on their faces, but that is the truth and they know it. The Liberals suggested that in place of the electorates of those 2 honourable members there should be a new division of Lawson, which would be occupied by a Liberal. They reckoned that he could do twice as good a job as the 2 honourable members together. They might have been right. Anyway, that is what the Liberals did. So do not let us have this humbug about the Labor Party being against country people. It was the Liberals who put forward those proposals. Frankly, I agree with them. 
The Liberals also made some queer suggestions. I recommend to students of political science that they look at the Liberals' plan for the electorate of St George. It is a magnificent piece of gerrymandering. One would have to travel the world to find a better example. Their plan went round corners in such a way that when one drew it on a map it looked like Felix the Cat's bow tie. It flared out on both sides and turned sideways at the middle to go through a narrow laneway which was in the centre of the electorate. It was a magnificent plan! Of course, the Distribution Commissioners would not accept that sort of proposition. When it came to the electorate of Cook the Liberals wanted to follow natural boundaries so they jumped across an 8-lane highway and went down a gully to try to get in a certain area. That is the way in which they went  about their business. That was their proposal. I understand the Country Party's concern about the Liberal Party's proposition because it was a bit raw. 
I for one am not content with the proposal put forward by the Distribution Commissioners. I believe that it is a reasonable proposition. I accept it as the work of men of integrity and honesty. But, in terms of judgment and objective opinion, in my view they erred and erred very considerably in the drawing of the boundary of the centre of Sydney- the electorate of Sydney. For people to say that there is more in common between those in the centre of Sydney and the people who live in Leichhardt, Lilyfield and Haberfield than there is with those who live in North Sydney is in my opinion ludicrous. North Sydney and the City of Sydney are now one and the same. Unfortunately North Sydney was not included on this occasion in the division of Sydney but at some time State electoral commissioners will see the merit of that proposal. It must be that the electoral commissioners in the future will get away from the landlocked Labor ghettos that have been perpetrated over the years. 
A subversive speech was made by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia tonight when he attacked the members of the Commission for carrying out the law. The Leader of the National Country Party stood in this Parliament tonight and advocated opposition to a law of Australia. He said that the National Country Party would not co-operate with that law and that it would not make submissions because it would not accept that law. He said that the National Country Party believed that that law was unfair, unjust and so on. Next time the Leader of the National Country Party wants to criticise the unionists I will remind him of his speech tonight. It was a subversive speech. It was the speech of a man who was trying to incite a breach of the law by commissioners, either now or in the future. This morning the Melbourne 'Age' published an excellent article. I seek leave to incorporate this editorial in Hansard. 
-Surely clause 83 is a reasonable proposition. Perhaps the Opposition is not aware of the fact that in New South Wales the widows' pension benefit is 66.7 per cent of the member's pension. The same situation applies in Victoria where 66.7 per cent of the member's pension is payable to the widow. The same figure is applied in South Australia. Certainly Queensland has the current Australian Government pension provision which is 62te per cent. Western Australia pays 62.8 per cent of the member's pension and under the defence forces retirement benefits scheme the figure is 62 te per cent. Surely the question is not one of the Australian Public Service being a pacesetter but rather the APS trying to keep up with the pace. 
The Opposition, in moving these amendments, is getting right away from the premise on which it based its original opposition to this scheme. I put it that way quite advisedly because what the Opposition is attempting to do is to emasculate this scheme by sneaking in an amendment here and an amendment there. The effect of these amendments really is to distort and to disturb the whole proposal which is before the Parliament. I certainly hope that, before the colleagues in the other place of Opposition members here come to vote on this issue they will give it a little more thought than has obviously been given by the gentlemen sitting opposite. We are now in a position where the Opposition says that if there is a fourth dependent child it will agree to pay to a widow with 4 dependent children what the Government is proposing to pay to a widow with 3 dependent children. Really, gentlemen, are you not being a little pedantic? If you look at the facts, surely you will not pursue these amendments. 
I oppose the amendment. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  really gave an excuse to try to justify an injustice. That is the sole benefit that the Committee receives from his speech. Just a few months ago the honourable member and all of his colleagues voted in this place very enthusiastically for a scheme to adjust the total pension by 1.4 times the consumer price index. The spokesman for the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition praised the proposition to the highest. 
I would have thought that if the honourable member was talking about justice rather than adopting some sort of cheap expediency, in a time of high inflation there was an even greater need to adjust the pension than at a time of low inflation. It seems to me that the honourable member's argument is completely illogical. What the honourable member is saying is that the retired people, and the pensioners, the people who have the least voice in the community, the least articulate group in the community, can bear the greatest burden. Presumably, those people have the least capacity to hit back. That seems to me to be a pretty shabby way of dealing with people. This legislation is alleged to be another pace setting move. Almost every State- certainly the majority of Statesadjust pensions strictly in accordance with consumer price index movements, and others base adjustments on the consumer price index. The honourable gentleman talks about these privileged people in the Australian Public Service. They will be only following what is given to employees in the various State public services and in the various State instrumentalities. 
The honourable gentleman also talks about their privileged position compared with people in private enterprise. I wonder whether he would disclose to the Parliament at some appropriate time how many Australian Government public servants he knows who have motor cars provided at their employer's expense and tax free? How many Australian Government public servants does he know who are provided with expense accounts, tax free, which are passed without any requirement for accountability? I want him to make that known to this Parliament. I do not propose to be diverted by the prejudice of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  who obviously has some pathological hang-up about people who work for the Australian Government. I sympathise with him in regard to that. I hope that it does not get him down. I am putting to this Committee that this is a reasonable proposition. The Government's proposal is that the election as to how he will take his pension is for the contributor to make. The contributor may make an election to take part of his pension by way of lump sum payment, in which case adjustment to cater for inflation is a matter entirely to him. The manner in which the contributor invests to guard against inflation and erosion of capital is a matter for his own care. But that part of the pension which the contributor takes as a weekly, fortnightly or annual payment is the responsibility of the Fund. We have to recognise that this Fund will continue to earn. It is not simply a matter of saying that only the Government portion is involved. In fact, the employee's contribution is perhaps better equipped than any other to meet this amount because it will be earning and will have been earning for many years past. I hope that the Government will reject the amendment, and I hope that the Committee will reject the amendment. 
-At the outset perhaps one should remind the Opposition that this is a Bill concerned with whether Australian public servants are to have a particular kind of superannuation scheme. We are not at this stage debating how to attack inflation or what the rate of inflation is likely to be. I notice that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  fell into the trap of being one of the crystal ball gazers- a task which he perfected during many years in ministerial office. But he was usually wrong and he still is wrong. 
It is not by any means impossible to raise absurdity when arguing against almost any proposition. In this case the Liberals have outdone even themselves. They have been able to project absurd results simply by compounding absurd rates of inflation and absurd rates of price and wage increases over a long period. It is not reasonable to suggest that because there is a particular rate of price increase in 1975 there will be a similar increase in 1976, 1986 or 1996, as the right honourable gentleman from Lowe attempted to suggest. He followed the lead of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  in that exercise in absurdity. 
This scheme is the result of long, careful, detailed and independent examination. I believe that the Liberal and National Country Parties do themselves and this Parliament a grave disservice by attacking the scheme with criticism which is ill-informed, illogical and absurd. The root cause of their criticism is the question of cost. The community cannot afford to pay for this scheme,' said the right honourable member for Lowe. At the same time as he was telling this Parliament that the community could not afford this scheme for a minority in the community he was telling us that the community as a whole should have a generous scheme, that every citizen is entitled to expect the provision of a superannuation scheme which is effective and reasonably generous, to use his words. 
Only a few days ago every gentleman on the opposite side of the chamber voted against the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. They were saying then that these things should be left to their wealthy friends outside in the private insurance industry. Now they are saying that the Government should offer insurance to every citizen in the community. Where do they stand? They are opportunistic in the extreme. They change their arguments to suit the mood of the day. They lack sincerity and conviction. That is why they are in opposition and that is why they will stay there, which is their place. 
The right honourable member for Lowe said that for 18 months he tried to introduce a national superannuation scheme but he failed. He also said that the Liberals were in office for 2 1 years. I think it was for 23 years, but he probably wants to forget the last 2 years. Nevertheless, there they were for 18 months trying to take up a new idea for a national superannuation scheme. It is no surprise to any member on this side of the chamber, and it will be no surprise to any officer or employee of the Austraiian Public Service, to realise that the previous Government found that an impossible task. I say to the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition, which exercises great influence in another place, which has the capacity to destroy this scheme, that it ought to think carefully about what it is doing and try to ascertain the real facts of the matter. After all, they have been published far and wide. 
It is not just a Government move; it was initiated by honourable gentlemen opposite when they were in government. This scheme is the result of a review initiated by the McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government. Having set up a commission, an independent body, surely honourable members opposite will give some credence to its findings. It is all very well for honourable members opposite to come into this chamber and to quote the views of actuaries from here and there. Any honourable member who has had any experience with superannuation schemes- and some honourable members opposite must have- would know that actuaries do come up with different results, and their projections can be very widely variable. I say to honourable members opposite that if they throw out this scheme, they are doing a grave disservice to this community. It is not an over generous scheme; it is not a scheme which will cost the world, as it were. In fact in actual cash payments in the next financial year, if this scheme is introduced, the Government will pay $5.4m less than it will pay in the current financial year. These figures have been supplied by the Department of the Treasury and have been made available to honourable gentlemen opposite, and they should take the trouble to read them. 
It seems very unjust and unfair that honourable members opposite should adopt this attitude. This new scheme has been developed in the public gaze over the last 2 years. The report of the departmental committee which was appointed in 1971 by the McMahon Government was tabled in this House on 8 May 1973. On 5 March 1974, the then Treasurer and now Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  tabled his proposals for a new scheme. On 1 8 June 1 974 the then Treasurer again released a report by the actuaries,  Mr Melville  and Professor Pollard. On 4 December 1974 the then Treasurer released the details of the new scheme approved by the Government to come into force from 1 July of this year. During all of this time, these proposals have been in the open and under public gaze. The booklet which was prepared on the scheme was given very wide circulation. 
What happened in September of last year? The then Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  attacked the Government. He said that we were taking too long to introduce this scheme. 'Where is it?' he thundered. 'Where is this scheme which the Government has not brought in?' he cried. Now when we are introducing the scheme, where are his loyal supporters? Where are those who would follow him through the valley of death, who would walk over hot coals? Where are they? Not only have they assassinated him, but they will now assassinate the scheme which earlier they were prepared to approve. To put it in the Austraiian vernacular, I say to honourable members opposite: 'You are not being fair dinkum on the issue'. To coin a phrase, what honourable members opposite ought to do is to think again'. 
I am getting a bit tired of telling honourable members opposite to think again. In fact what I should be saying to them is: Think'. Not think again, but think, for the first time. 
-For some of them, without question. But for others it would be beyond thencapacity. The criticism with regard to cost is not valid. The whole emphasis in this debate so far from the Opposition has been placed on the additional benefits which are to flow to members of the Australian Public Service. But there are some balancing features of this scheme. For example, at present Australian Public Service pensions are adjusted by 1.4 times the increase in the consumer price index. 
To adjust by 1.4 times the increase in the consumer price index. The honourable member for Berowa who interjects had something to say about this at the time. In 1973 when this legislation was introduced, the honourable member said that the Commonwealth was giving a significant and, in itself, admirable and praiseworthy lead. That is what the honourable member for Berowra said then. The right honourable member for Lowe said: 'I congratulate the honourable gentleman'- he was referring to the Treasurer- 'on the proposals which he has put before the House'. Those honourable members praised the Government for all of it, for the total pension. Now honourable members opposite come into this House, having only half read the proposition, and say: We are going to move an amendment which adjusted in accordance with the consumer price index on the Government portion only'. We do not disagree with that where a member takes a lump sum payment as a refund of his own contributions. In other words, if he takes a lump sum payment, that payment will not be adjusted. 
The honourable member should listen. The contributor takes a lump sum payment and, as the honourable member for Bennelong says, that cannot be adjusted and no attempt will be made to adjust it. The contributor will have the balance of his pension adjusted not at 1.4 times the increase in the consumer price index, but at 100 per cent of the increase in the consumer price index. That is a reduction to 100 per cent of the increase in the consumer price index. However, if the member elects not to commute and to take out a pension, what is the possible justification of saying that he shall receive only five-sevenths of it- the Government portion- adjusted in accordance with movements in the consumer price index? What possible justification can there be? After all, the man who takes the lump sum payment will presumably invest it in some enterprise or in some commodity. He will at least have the opportunity of protecting that amount of money against the ravages of inflation. But honourable members opposite say that if he does not do that, if he takes his money in weekly or annual pension, then that money has to suffer the ravages of inflation and that man is to have no opportunities to guard against this. Surely that is an ill-considered, illconceived proposition. Surely my friend, the exprofessor of economics, the honourable member for Berowra will not try to justify that proposition. He has tried to justify some rough ones in the past, but I think that even this would be beyond his capacity. 
Then the Opposition tells us that what should happen is that we should make everybody stay at work until they are 65 years and that there should be no provision to retire at 60 years. Opposition members talk about this lazy lot in the Public Service wanting to grab for themselves an earlier retirement. Where have honourable members opposite been? What have they read, if anything? Do not the honourable gentlemen opposite know that since 1922 those who contribute to the fund to retire at 65 years may have that retirement age changed to 60 years on the payment of a capital sum? Do not honourable gentlemen opposite know that since 1924 it has been possible to contribute in order to retire on full pension at age 60 years? Do they not know that since 1 954 for the bulk of members, a pension of 70 per cent of final salary has been attainable on retirement at age 60 years? Do these things all escape honourable gentlemen opposite? Do they not realise that on 18 September 1974, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who has clung to his office with great tenacity, with great skill and with rare courage, made the statement that the Opposition intended to ensure that, whenever possible, existing contributors would not be disadvantaged on transferring to a new superannuation scheme. Having made that promise, having given that pledge, having given that undertaking, the Liberals now move for a serious turning back of the clock. Let the record be clear. Not only are the honourable members opposite intent on attempting to prevent an improvement of the existing scheme; they are intent, in this Parliament, on reducing the advantages which presently apply to members of the Australian Public Service. 
What is wrong with age 60 retirement anyway? The South Australian and the New South Wales governments do not see anything wrong with it. Both governments have introduced age 60 retirements. Western Australia and Victoria have a retirement age of 65, with an optional retiring age of 60 years. Tasmania and Queensland have age 65 retirement. Where is the pace setting in that? Where is the extravagance not followed by anyone else? How in this proposition will all of these State governments and State government instrumentalities be forced to follow suit? 
The honourable member for Curtin cried his eyes out on behalf of those in the private sector. Let me tell the honourable member a thing or two.  His  friends in the upper eschelons of management in the private sector are looking after themselves very well, thanks very much. They do not need his tears in this place to do so either. The practice is now widespread indeed, where staff superannuation funds- some of them with very narrow application and others with slightly wider application- have fairly generous provisions. It is not uncommon to see a retirement benefit of $100,000. The recipient does not have to wait 30 years, or in many cases contribute for them either. In many cases, they are noncontributory; in other cases the organisation provides $2 or $3 for every $1 from the employee; in other cases, the contributions are equal, but with an annual bonus tossed in. I know. I have seen retirement benefits of $100,000, of which 95 per cent is tax free. Compare that with the existing Public Service scheme or with that which is proposed, and you will not see such a proposition. Look at the New South Wales scheme. It makes this scheme look like a disadvantaged scheme. Compare the large lump sum payments which senior public servants in New South Wales can obtain with what is obtainable by members of the Australian Public Service. 
The Opposition at least has conceded something, namely, that we should shift away from the unit system to the percentage of salary basis for payment into the scheme. But what the Opposition does in the amendments that it proposes to move is virtually to wreck the scheme put up by the Government. The Opposition knows that its amendments will result in such a deterioration in the scheme that the officers and employees in the Service may say: 'We do not want the new scheme. We will keep the present scheme'. So, in this deceitful way the Opposition proposes amendments which on the surface look innocent, which cry: 'We are really protecting the public interest'. That claim is false. It is really setting out to destroy the scheme. The Opposition is engaged in a campaign of destruction of schemes which is long overdue for review and for upgrading and modernisation. 
It is a scheme which is steeped in financial antiquity. It is a scheme which is an actuarial nightmare. It is a scheme which is worked out on the basis that people when they can afford most pay the least, from 2 per cent to 20 per cent on the average. In fact, 20 per cent of salary is not uncommon for officers and employees in later years. The honourable member for Curtin said the payment could be up to 53 per cent. There are many people in the Australian Public Service who dread the thought of a salary increase because they will take home less pay. There are people who, because of financial commitments, illness in the family or for other factors beyond their control, cannot afford to take advantage of the scheme in its present form. Because they cannot afford to take advantage of the present scheme, they not only miss out on the benefits that they are entitled to from their own saving but they miss out also on what is virtually a right to receive a government contribution. For current employees, the cost increase of the proposed scheme is almost nil. It is negligible. It is between one per cent and 2 per cent. Certainly there is some increase in costs over time. Certainly, by bringing in people who have been wrongfully denied the right to join a pension scheme over the years some increased costs will be involved. The right honourable member for Lowe, the honourable member for Curtin and other honourable members who sit on the Opposition front bench who previously held power in government, ignored for a generation, for almost a quarter of a century, the right of Australian public servants to have a modern pension or superannuation scheme. But the Opposition, confronted with a scheme which is reasonable, just and fair, brings forward amendments to try to destroy in a very deceitful manner the concept of that scheme. I hope that honourable members opposite will think out the scheme. I hope that they will change their minds. Otherwise I am afraid that they will have caused a very great disservice to Australia and to the Australian community. 
-The Opposition and other vested interests in the community are currently waging a very vigorous campaign designed to convince the present Australian Government that there should be an indiscriminate, across the board, significant reduction in Government spending. Undoubtedly there are some areas in which, whatever the desirability may be, it would be possible to reduce Government spending. Various members of this Parliament would argue for or against individual or particular items which could, should or perhaps should not be reduced on various criteria. I am concerned about a number of these matters. In particular I want to make a plea today on behalf of the surf life-saving movement that there should be no reduction in respect to any grant previously made to that organisation and that the Government should consider increasing the grant to that movement. The present Government has given greater recognition to the Surf Life Saving Association in Australia than has been given by any previous government since Federation. 
-The honourable gentleman who interrupts me has not seen the surf for a long time. He is out with the cows and the trees. If he listens he might learn something. There is no doubt that the present Government has given significant recognition to the work performed by the surf life saving movement. In fact, in the current financial year some $280,000 has been made available for administration, for special purposes, and for the purchase of life saving equipment- rescue equipment of various types. A further sum of $9,000-odd was made available to assist in the funding of the presentation of the national championships, which were held at Dee Why in Sydney earlier this year. Some 29 000 men are members of the Surf Life Saving Association. They give their time in varying degrees to the saving of lives in what is a dangerous sport. But what this Parliament should recognise is that the life saving of today is vastly different from the life saving that the honourable member who interrupted me would have seen the last time he was at the beach in his youth- a long time ago indeed. What has happened is that technology is being used in a far more advanced form than previously. For example, at the present time the surf life saving movement utilises the helicopter service which is made available by way of grant by a private trading bank. It utilises radio communication services and power boats and on the beach it administers oxygen and other advanced first aid and paramedical treatment. It should be recognised also that the surf life saving movement does not confine itself to assistance to people who are injured while participating in the sport of swimming. Other forms of accidents occur on the beach and at sea for which its services are required and utilised at the present time, particularly with the use of the helicopter. Fishermen washed off rocks and people involved in boating accidents have no hesitation in calling for assistance, and that assistance is readily available. 
When this matter is being considered in the forthcoming Budget, I hope sincerely that proper attention will be given to it and that the Government will not be stampeded into any acrosstheboard indiscriminate reduction in Government spending which does not pay due regard to the services being provided in particular instances. I hope that surf life saving is kept clearly in mind. There is no other life saving function in our community which is comparable in size or in regularity of service. 
No, I have not forgotten anything. I am saying that there is no other life saving function which is comparable in size or regularity of service, and I believe that to be true. The Surf Life Saving Association performs its tasks without charge. In fact its members pay for the privilege of providing what is a very valuable community service. The complexity of new methods creates a much greater demand for training in methods of administration. For example, there is a much greater need for training and for organising training courses, for training facilities, for putting in time on instruction and examinations. Any member of this Parliament would realise that a person who is administering oxygen cannot be allowed to do it without training and that a person can cause death if oxygen is improperly administered. This training takes time, and it also places a great deal of strain on the limited and meagre administration facilities of the Surf Life Saving Association- an organisation which operates throughout the length and breadth of Australia, all around the coastline of Australia where there are clubs and members performing this function. The Association has only 4 male administrators and 10 female office assistants. 
I make this special plea at this time, that not only will the Association's allocation not be reduced but also that the Government might give favourable consideration in the preparation of the Budget to making a further increase in the funds to be made available for this very worthwhile purpose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the Minister for Services and Property seen reports of evidence given before a sub-committee of the United States Senate that certain oil companies were engaged in the payment of bribes and the making of contributions to political parties in various parts of the world? Is the Minister aware of any section of the Electoral Act that prevents the raising of campaign funds abroad by individuals or political parties? 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) Over the years, no single section of the Public Service has had the responsibility for maintaining a comprehensive record of employment in all statutory authorities. 
I would point out, however, that included among its terms of reference is the provision that the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration: 'inquire into and report upon the administrative organization and services of the Australian Government and in particular- the purpose, functions and management of Australian Government Departments, statutory corporations and other authorities and the principal instruments of co-ordination of Australian Government administration and policy ..." 
As stated in the Prime Minister's answer on 5 December 1974 (Hansard, pp 4764-5) the Statistician does not collect separate employment figures from all statutory authorities since such a collection is not necessary for purposes of the employment statistics which he publishes. The Acting Statistician did, however, provide estimates of employment at that time. 
The Statistician has now obtained details of the total employment in Australia of all the statutory authorities listed in part ( 1 ) of the answer to Question No. 314 except for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation for the periods set out below: 
I am informed that at present the average time taken between the date of receipt of new applications for citizenship and the date of approval is as follows for the various offices of the Department of Labor and Immigration: 
Sydney- 5 months Melbourne- 5 months Brisbane- 4V4 months Adelaide- 114 to 2 months Perth-6 to 7 months Hobart- 1 month Darwin- 3 months . Canberra- 3 months 
The time between approval of citizenship applications and actual granting of citizenship varies considerably. Where applicants opt to have citizenship conferred at a ceremony held by the Department of Labor and Immigration, the average delay is less than two weeks. Where citizenship is conferred at ceremonies arranged by Local Government Authorities the delay is governed by the frequency of ceremonies held by the individual Local Government Authority. The interval between formal Local Government Citizenship ceremonies has varied between one month and 12 months depending mainly on the number of candidates for citizenship in their areas. 
The question is not one which I can answer at this stage because the matter of the funding of the RED scheme is a matter contained in the Budget, as I would expect the honourable member to know. However, I do want to say that the unemployment figures were certainly disappointing but I do not believe that it is appropriate to look at them in their totality and to say there is doom, gloom and nothing more. For example, there has been a significant increase in employment in the clothing and textile industries. I think that should be emphasised. I also think it should be emphasised that, whereas the figures are quite high and unacceptably high at the present time for unemployed persons, those figures should nonetheless be considered in conjunction with the figures that have applied previously. For example, as at July 1972, let the record be clear, under the LiberalCountry Party Government there were 95 732 unemployed persons, excluding school leavers and we are, therefore, looking at something less than 150 000 extra. 
I take the point of the Leader of the National Country Party: What is an extra 150 000? It is a very great number indeed. It is a matter of very great concern to this Government that such a situation should have developed. I want to say this: The right honourable gentleman has little to crow about. If he looks back through the history of his Government when in office he will see a generation of neglect in terms of employment planning and labor planning and a complete lack of any manpower policy. The point I am wanting to raise at this time is that whereas the figures are extraordinarily high- my own view is that they have reached about the height and will go little if any further, and will start to improve significantly- the fact of the matter is that under the full employment program of the Liberal-Country Party Government almost 100 000 people were out of work. That is what those opposite call 'full employment'. I would say this: After this Government's policies are implemented and inflation is stabilised, there will be a significant improvement in the employment position. 
I repeat what I said earlier. The RED scheme and its future activities and funding are contained in the Budget. I want to take up again the point that the honourable gentleman raised about unemployment created by the Government. I categorically deny his assertion. Horse laughs from the Opposition do not add any more credit to that assertion. The fact of the matter is that the economy has been through a period of downturn in the same way as similar economies in western Europe, North America and Japan have gone through a downturn. The Government has illustrated over recent monthsand I believe it will illustrate it even more clearly in the immediate future- its very great concern to bring inflation under control. There is simply no doubt that the level of inflation has been responsible for a significant increase in the rate of unemployment. I believe that this is now being accepted by large sections of the community. I would simply say this to the honourable gentleman who asked the question: If he believes that unemployment in Australia can be rectified simply by having bigger and better RED schemes, I have less respect for him than 1 had previously. 
-The answer to the question is no. No such categorical undertaking can be given by me. However, if the honourable member would like to put specific questions to me subsequently I shall, on his behalf, ascertain the information from the Minister. I thought it was made clear enough last night in the Treasurer's speech that some curtailment of the rate of expenditure under the Regional Employment Development scheme was necessary in the total Budget consideration. I thought the Treasurer made that clear enough. But if there is some specific matter about which the honourable member is concerned and he asks me about it I shall get the information for him. 
I have not said, nor has anybody else said, that the scheme will be phased out in the next few months. I would suggest that perhaps the honourable gentleman might be more beneficially engaged if he directed that sort of question to some of his Liberal Party colleagues in the States who seek to challenge the validity of the scheme and to have it terminated. 
I have listened with some interest to the statements made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and find them to be grossly misleading, which I do not suppose will worry him too much. But let me start off with the basic premise: The honourable member says that trade union officials spend most of their time organising for the Australian Labor Party. I brand that statement as false- utterly and completely false- and beyond the honourable member's capacity to prove. The honourable member takes the view that the trade union movement is made up of officials in a monolithic way, all of whom are members of the Labor Party. I know a person who holds a senior office in a trade union with which I used to be closely associated in one form or another and who also holds senior office in the Liberal Party. He must be very recreant indeed when he attends Australian Council of Trade Union congresses and various trade union gatherings if he does not uncover this deep seated plot that the honourable member for Mackellar has just found out about. What a remarkable thing! There has obviously been another serious leak from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. The honourable member for Mackellar, who in every speech that he has ever made about the trade union movement has suggested that it is completely dominated by the communists, has now discovered that it is completely dominated by fascists. What a remarkable change! Who else has heard of this dramatic event? Nobody, and I suggest that nobody really will. 
I ask the House to look at this simple fact: Trade unions in Australia, or at least those trade unions which are registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, are severely and strictly regulated by law. Their funds and how they shall spend them are regulated by laws of this Parliament. Each year the trade unions are required to file returns with the Commonwealth Industrial Registrar. Their funds may be spent only- and I emphasise the word 'only'- in the pursuit of their stated objectives, which must be registered and which cannot be contrary to the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Any member of the Liberal Party, the National Country Party, the Communist Party, the Labor Party or any member with no Party affiliation has the right to obtain financial assistance to take action in the Industrial Court to prevent any registered union from spending money which is not within the objects of that union. 
That intelligent comment coming from the honourable member for Griffith is not even up to his normal standard. The Federal law reports, and previously the Commonwealth arbitration reports, contain numerous cases where individual unionists have successfully challenged the right of a union official to spend money in one form or another. I say this to honourable members opposite: You are obsessed with what trade unions can or cannot do. What about being a bit concerned about public companies which completely misuse the funds of investors? What is to be our attitude to the campaign to which you are party in respect of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation? What are we to do about the huge sums of money that are being pilfered from policy holders and syphoned off those who are saving for their retirement to support your miserable political aims? 
The whole debate strikes me as being somewhat irregular and, to say the least, somewhat unusual. The allegation is that if this law is passed and contributors to political Party funds will have to be disclosed, the Labor Party will have no difficulty getting funds but the Liberal Party will not get any. That is a remarkable assertion. It might be right; I do not know. It is not the intention of this Government. But the assumption behind the assertion is that those who contribute to the Liberal Party and the National Country Party are ashamed of it and they do not want to own up to making a contribution, or that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party are ashamed of their contributors. We on this side of the Parliament are not ashamed of anybody who makes a contribution to our funds. We do not mind that being disclosed because we have nothing to be ashamed of. Those who contribute to Labor Party funds know that there is no string to their contribution. They know that they will get no particular favour for their contribution. 
I wonder whether the same is true of the Liberal Party. For example, in recent months I have been advised that the International Telephone and Telegraph organisation, which has become notorious for its infamy in political vote-buying in illicit contributions to political funds, made a very substantial donation some years ago to the Liberal Party and that that donation was made in anticipation of obtaining a contract for equipment for the Postmaster-General's Department. That donation ran into hundreds of thousands of dollars. That organisation was justifiably upset when its Australian offshoot did not get the contract and it reacted rather sharply. 
I believe that those who have nothing to hide will stand up and support this legislation. What possible opposition can there be? Why should the Australian people not know the source of political funds in this country? Those who have nothing to hide will be prepared to have an open book. This question of disclosure of contributions is becoming a very live issue in the electorate. Just less than 2 years ago, in October 1973, the then Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)-  all honourable members will know him; he was the leader of the fire-walkers- when speaking in this House on behalf of the Liberal Party stated, as recorded on page 2238 of  Hansard  of 17 October 1973: 
We support legislation which provides for the disclosure of political party funds. 
But in February of this year that statement was denied by his followers. Even then the writing was clearly on the wall for him. The right honourable member for Bruce apparently wanted to disclose the source of political party funds; obviously he was overruled. The right honourable gentleman was a man of integrity. He did not want to keep those hidden skeletons in the cupboard; he wanted a situation in which everybody knew. Obviously that did not suit the forces which were out to depose him, and which are now in control of the Liberal Party. They are ashamed of their contributors and their contributors are ashamed to admit that they support them. 
There have been scandals throughout the world. The honourable member for Mackellar speaks of corruption. I wish he would turn his attention to some of the infamous practices of some of the international cartels, oil companies and mining corporations which operate around the world. The disclosures that have emerged from Watergate and the disclosures that have emerged from the investigations of the United States Senate committees indicate that absolutely corrupt practices have been engaged in by the companies. I suggest that they may be operating in Australia also. If they are not, it is a remarkable situation indeed. Our friends opposite want to keep the cover over it. I leave it to the House to decide their motivation. 
All the abuse and smearing of the trade union movement and all the attempts to cloud this issue will fail because there is one simple, single issue. I ask honourable members opposite: Are you or are you not prepared to come clean? Are you or are you not prepared to disclose to the Australian electorate the source of your funds? Of course your rich and powerful friends will not let you; those to whom you have made promises about mining concessions and mineral concessions if you ever get back into government will not let you do it. You are in the position of captives. 
The Opposition's theme, which was first developed by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  when this legislation was previously before this Parliament, is that the legislation discriminates against the Liberal and National Country Parties. It discriminates only if their contributors are ashamed of them or if they are ashamed of their contributors. Men of integrity, men of honour, will stand up in this Parliament and say: 'I have nothing to hide'. A man of honour would say: 'I am prepared to disclose to my peers, to my electors, the source of my funds'. Honourable members opposite, by their behaviour earlier this year and again today are showing that they have a great deal to hide, that they have much to be ashamed of. I wish they would change their attitude, because this reform is required by the Australian electorate and is a very desirable political reform. 
I can well appreciate the honourable gentleman's concern about the reports because I suppose that nobody has illustrated greater concern for welfare housing than he has. If the New South Wales Government were prepared to use in order to solve the economic problems of that State half the energy that it has used in the last 24 hours to misrepresent the effects of the Australian Budget, New South Wales would be a better place in which to live. It is difficult to imagine a greater collection of drivel and grizzle than we have witnessed so far. 
The claim by the Minister as reported in the  Daily Telegraph,  that New South Wales will receive only $90m, is completely false. New South Wales will receive for welfare housing in this financial year an amount of $123,41 1,000. That is the same as last year. Let us look at what happened in the last full year of Liberal-Country Party rule-1971-72. 
The honourable member can do the calculation in real terms if he likes or in actual terms, but the amount was $55.5m. So the criticism of this Government's provision for welfare housing has come about as a result of an increase of 122 per cent in the amount actually allocated as compared with 1971-72. In fact, the amount of $123.411m compares very favourable indeed with the amount allocated in the last 3 full years of office of the Liberal-Country Party Government. In those 3 full years it was able to muster and allocate $138.55m. Last year the Australian Government advanced amounts to the States for welfare housing that were consistent with their capacity to spend the funds; in other words, every cent that they could spend was allocated to them. In 1973-74 the New South Wales Government had to carry over an amount of $ 17m which had been allocated for welfare housing because it did not have the capacity or the ability to spend it. The amount of $123m is to be split up between the Housing Commission of New South Wales and the Home Builders Account. The allocation is a matter to be decided in negotiations between the New South Wales Minister and myself. 
The New South Wales Government has shown over a period of time that it has severely neglected the people in need of welfare housing, particularly in respect of community services. It is obsessed with a North Shore mentality. I simply say to this House that the criticism is a mixture of sham, hyperbole and misrepresentation. The New South Wales Government is very quick to criticise any lack of spending by the Australian Government and is equally quick to criticise any means by which funds are raised in order to enable such spending to be carried out. In my view the attack on the Budget by the New South Wales Government illustrates a sanctimonious attitude by those who are dominated by North Shore duplicity. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  in the debate this morning made some allegations which certainly deserve to be answered. I propose to answer them in part now and give a more detailed reply on the adjournment debate this evening, if I am able to exercise my privilege in that regard. 
The honourable member made a number of allegations. I simply say in respect of his allegation about Ministers failing to answer questions that if there is any deficiency in my own Department I will certainly give attention to it. I do believe that this is a matter that can be considered. I think all honourable members will appreciate, after all, that the number of questions coming from honourable members is growing as the activities of this Government expand. In other words, there are more areas now about which to ask questions than there were previously. I am advised by the longest serving member of this Parliament, the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  that what has happened is nothing new and that there were occasions in the past when questions were simply wiped off the notice paper. In his long service, lengthy delays were experienced under the Liberal-Country Party Government. But there is a matter that cannot be allowed to go unchallenged. That is the criticism by the honourable member of the National Employment and Training Scheme. 
This re-training scheme was introduced by the former Minister for Labor and Immigration, the present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  That scheme will stand as a monument to his name. This was the first Government even to consider seriously the introduction of a re-training scheme. Certainly there have been delays. Of course there are delays in having some of the applications finalised. The reason for such delays is very simple indeed. When the scheme was announced, there was a virtual flood of applicants, such a flood of applicants as to indicate the unsatisfied need of this community over a generation for retraining. People who are applying include those who have not had the opportunity to be trained in their youth, who have not had the opportunity to have a reasonable education, new settlers to this country, migrants from other parts of the world who have not had the opportunity to be trained in the skills required in this community. It ill behoves a former Liberal-Country Party Minister whose Government presided over the years of neglect in this field, to come along now and to criticise this Government for the deficiencies which may exist in the initial stages of an exciting scheme which will satisfy a great community and economic need for Australia. 
Let me illustrate my point by referring to what we saw on many occasions in respect of unemployment figures during the reign of office of the Liberal-Country Party Government. There was unemployment amongst unskilled workers and shortages of skilled employees. This situation arose because there was a massive imbalance in the Australian work force. That massive imbalance grew up in the years of neglect from 1949 to 1972. 'The generation of neglect' it will be known as and will be so described by historians. We had a situation almost with great regularity in which there was unemployment amongst unskilled employees and a shortage of skilled employees. This is an unfortunate, regrettable fact 
It is not appropriate for the honourable member for Curtin to launch a criticism against this scheme. In my view, it also is in very poor taste for the honourable member to make an attack on those who are doing their best to administer this scheme. They have been subjected to severe difficulties indeed in trying to cope with the large number of people seeking assistance. But I should say this: Those who are presently applying for retraining under NEAT are receiving very prompt attention indeed. This is done at great expense and personal cost to the officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration who are working very hard to administer the scheme. The delays to which the honourable member referred are in respect of people who have appealed against decisions ruling them ineligible to participate in the NEAT scheme at this time. This Government could not possibly hope to be able to satisfy the demands which have built up over 23 years. We will eventually have a scheme whereby every citizen who wants to be re-trained will be able to be trained to acquire greater skills. We will do this because it is a job that needs to be done. This nation needs to do it. But it will take time. Nobody could reasonably suggest that such a mammoth and massive task could be undertaken without friction or without delay. As I said, 
I will take the opportunity if I am able this evening to reply on the adjournment debate in some detail to these allegations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Belconnen Health Complex. 

The planned size of the hospital is800 beds- to be completed in two stages, each of 400 beds. 
Early planning indicates the desirability of the construction of Stage 1 being in 1978-79 with a completion date of late 1983. 
The completion date of the overall project has not yet been determined. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As a result of a recommendation by the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) Statistics my Department asked the Australian Bureau of Statistics in January 1974 to conduct a survey of a sample of persons registered as unemployed. Due to the commitments of the Bureau, the survey could not be conducted until the week commencing 30.9.74. 
The purpose of the survey, which was conducted at a sample of addresses selected from CES records, was to identify differences between the Bureau's unemployment statistics and the CES figures. In accordance with Bureau policy concerning the confidentiality of information obtained in its collections, only aggregate estimates were supplied to my Department, neither the names of individuals included in the survey nor any particulars about them being provided. At all stages it was intended that the results of the survey, except for figures subject to sampling variability too high for most practical uses, would be published by the Department of Labor and Immigration. A report along these lines is now being prepared by the Department and I will arrange for it to be released as soon as it becomes available. 
and (4) The Department of Social Security was advised of the intention to conduct the survey and discussions were held with that Department on the question of extending it to encompass details of registrants in receipt of Unemployment Benefits. These discussions revealed that there would have been particular problems involved in ensuring the confidentiality of survey information and at the same time producing worthwhile results. Following completion of the survey the Minister for Social Security was advised of the results and the matter was further considered but, as the individual records from the survey had been destroyed by the Commonwealth Statistician, no action could be taken. 
ABC Guest of Honour Programs (Question No.  2743) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
$180,000. 
Advertising undertaken by the Depanment relates to: 
tenders and quotations; and 
filling of vacant staff positions. 
1970-71- $178,697; 197 1-72-$ 118,761; 1972-73- $137,665; 1973-74- $157,367; 1974-75-$ 156,822. 
I rise in this debate this evening to answer some of the inaccurate and inappropriate remarks made by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  during the Grievance Day debate on Thursday last. It is becoming typical for there to be Liberal misrepresentation of the Government's position. I note that earlier today the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  saw fit to represent completely an answer I gave to a question in this House on Tuesday last. I take the matter no further than to brand bis reference to my reply as a complete misrepresentation of what I said. 
The honourable member for Curtin complained about a number of things involving the administration of the Department of Labor and Immigration. But, of course, he has a short memory. He complained about the long delay in Ministers answering questions on notice. I remind him that this is not the first time that complaints about this matter have been made. My attention was drawn to a complaint made on 17 August 1972. The complaint was made about the long delays of the then Minister for Education and Science and now Leader of the Opposition in answering questions. The Leader of the Opposition's answer is on pages 435 and 436 of the  Hansard  of that time. He made no bones about it. He said that it was too expensive to answer these questions. He did not make much apology for the long and inordinate delays that were occasioned in bis answering questions put on the notice paper by members of Parliament. How times change. How standards are varied by honourable gentlemen opposite to suit the circumstances of the day. 
Let me turn specifically to some of the objections and some of the criticism made by the honourable member for Curtin. He raised questions about the operation of the National Employment and Training scheme. The rapidity with which new applications for assistance under NEAT are being determined is in fact a tribute to the dedication, the efficiency and the very hard work of officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration. Although the time of processing will vary according to the type and level of training which is sought and the need to seek further information from applicants, most new applicants now receive an indication of eligibility within a few weeks of their applications being received. When NEAT was introduced in October last year the Department was virtually flooded with applications for assistance. It showed a great community response, a great community interest and a tremendous community need. An amount of $96.80 a week, which is taxable, is paid to full-time trainees. That is a complete contrast to the miserable apology for a scheme which the Liberals had in operation during their period of office- a scheme of which people could not afford to take advantage. In the first months of operation of this scheme applications were received at the rate of 7000 a month. Since October last year 18 631 people have either completed or been approved for training. The number actually in training at the end of July was 14 654. It should be remembered that the NEAT scheme is confined to industries or occupations in which there is or will be a demand for labour. 
I do not want to mention the specific cases raised by the honourable gentleman, but I will mention them by case number if he likes. The first one he raised was rejected for assistance under the NEAT scheme and a reply was sent to the honourable gentleman on 1 August this year. Another applicant was rejected for assistance under the NEAT scheme but currently is pursuing a course of training with assistance under the tertiary education allowances scheme. Does the honourable gentleman want that person to be paid twice? The third case the honourable gentleman raised involves a person in respect of a State education department bonded studentship with a small income from part-time work. She was also rejected for assistance under the NEAT scheme, but there is in fact no record of correspondence from the honourable gentleman supporting the woman's application. 
Another case which he raised has been fully reviewed by the Department of Labor and Immigration but also has been rejected on the ground that the person involved had voluntarily left employment to undertake training for an occupation for which there is a low labour market demand. If the honourable gentleman wants further details, they are available and I will supply them to him. The honourable member objected to the RED scheme. He said that certain organisations had actually received approval from the then Minister and advice has now been given that the project has been cancelled. I deny that. No projects at this stage have been cancelled. All organisations have been informed that the matter has been suspended and that they should not undertake new expenditure pending matters being reviewed. The suspension of commencement of RED projects is Australia - wide and extends to all electorates. It is inappropriate for the honourable member for Curtin to say: 'We cannot get any reply of an urgent nature out of the Government'. The only advice that can be given at this stage is that all the projects are under review and that the review is being carried out with the utmost despatch. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  has advised that the Department has virtually completed the review and it is hoped to provide project sponsors with firm details regarding the future of their projects by the end of this week. 
The honourable member also raised an immigration complaint. He should realise that the Minister receives approximately 65 000 representations per annum in respect of immigration matters. The case he raised is an interesting one. He claimed that he had received no information and no substantive reply from the Minister. I remind him that I have shown him a letter which he acknowledges having received. The letter is dated 12 May 1975. 1 seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-The facts of this case are quite simple. The man's name is  Mr Angelo  Gis.mondi That gentleman has failed to appear for an interview and medical examination at the Australian Embassy in Rome.  Mr Gismondi  was sponsored by his mother-in-law in February of last year for migration to Australia. The nomination was sent to the chief immigration officer in Rome in the usual way. Had the gentleman been able to meet the normal conditions for migrant entry he would have been accepted, but he did not meet those conditions. The fact is that  Mr Gismondi  was an army officer in the country of which he is a citizen and as we are not seeking army officers as migrants at present he did not meet the occupational conditions for migrant entry.  Mr Gismondi  was said to be a qualified civil engineer. That was also taken in account. However, Australia is not recruiting civil engineers from overseas. On those grounds his application was not accepted. The previous Minister for Labor and Immigration reviewed the case in May of this year and confirmed the decision taken by officers of his Department. The honourable member was so advised in May this year and was given an assurance that, although there was no change in the circumstance which had led to the decision which was confirmed by the previous Minister, the case would be re-examined. 
The case could be approached in one of two ways. The previous facts could be gone over again but that would have meant almost inevitably that the decision would have been confirmed. That was not done. The action taken was to advise the Australian immigration officials at the Australian Embassy in Rome to review the case further. In November of last year the overseas post was asked to state the reason for the rejection of  Mr Gismond:  's application. After examination by the appropriate authorities in Australia the immigration officials in Rome were advised to undertake a further examination, to seek a further review and to make a report. The second report was received in April.  Mr Gismondi  's professional skills were checked and it was found that there was no demand for such qualifications. The honourable member was so advised, not only by the letter in May which I had incorporated but also by a telegram in July, that inquiries were not complete and the Department was still waiting. 
I have advised the honourable member that the basic reason for the rejection of the appllication is that the person about whom he is concerned so far has failed to attend for a medical interview and that is holding up further investigation of the matter. The allegations made by the honourable gentleman are without foundation. He has been most unreasonable and the accusation that he has made against the Minister for Labour and Immigration, whom 
I have the privilege to represent in this place, was completely unjustified. Having received the facts I would expect the honourable gentleman at the first opportunity available to him to do the decent and proper thing and to withdraw the allegations. 
-Part of the question, of course, is beyond the responsibility of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The Government, and in particular the Minister, are seriously concerned about the level of unemployment throughout Australia. The honourable gentleman's proposals last night, if adopted by the Government- I assure him that they will not be- would lead to very serious further unemployment in the construction industry. If he examined for just a few moments the proposition he put to further curtail the civil works program he would see that in an already depressed area of industry his proposals will cause chaos, bankruptcy and total destruction of large sections of the construction industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2586 (Hansard, 5 June 1975, page 3545). 
  Minister for the Capital Territory   (Question No.  2610) 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The total sum paid out under the RED Scheme as at end-June 1975 was $60,397,132. The total sum authorised for payment under the RED Scheme as at end- June 1975 was estimated to be $ 1 92,684,960. 
RED Scheme projects have been approved for the following types of institutions: 
State Government Departments and instrumentalities; 
local government authorities; and 
community organisations including Apex, Lions, Rotary, Brotherhood of St Laurence, St Vincent de Paul and other similar charitable institutions. 
3 ) The proportion of total sums approved in each State as at end-June 1 975 is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill is to authorise the Treasurer to pay to the States this year the sum of $364. 6m for welfare housing in accordance with the provisions of the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. It will be distributed among the States as follows: 

<graphic href="096131197508275_74_17.jpg"></graphic>

Welfare housing is an area to which the Government attaches high priority. Bearing in mind the $ 10.4m advanced in June 1975 on the basis that it would be taken into account in this year's allocation, the advances in 1 975-76 will be maintained at the greatly increased 1974-75 level, and well above the $2 18.6m allocated in 1973-74. They will also be some 2% times greater than the allocations for welfare housing from State loan funds in the last 2 years of the previous Government which were $16 1.5m in 1971-72 and $ 163.2m in 1972-73. This is the real measure of the importance attached to welfare housing by the present Government in comparison with our predecessors. 
The decision to limit the welfare housing advances for 1975-76 to the 1974-75 level has been a difficult one for the Government to take. It will, however, be recalled that the large increase in the advances in 1974-75 was in part due to the sharp downturn that had developed in private housing construction. It was appropriate for public housing activity to be stepped up above the original allocations in order to increase the output of welfare housing and also to use resources that otherwise may well have remained idle. 
Although the allocations for 1975-76 are limited by the budgetary constraints aimed at achieving greater economic stability and the control of inflation, they by no means reflect an intention to divert from a course that will ensure further improvements in welfare housing standards. However, there is significant evidence of recovery in the private home building sector. Private commencements had started to recover in the March quarter and the improvement has been maintained in the June quarter when 28 200 dwellings were commenced, about 10 per cent more than in the preceding December quarter. Approvals of private dwellings in the June quarter exceeded 30 000 compared with about 24 000 in the December quarter. The number of housing loans approved by savings banks and permanent building societies was maintained at a very high level throughout the first half of 1975 and this, should ensure further growth in commencements in the coming months. 
In these circumstances, it would have been economically irresponsible to continue to increase the Government housing sector at the pace established in the special circumstances of the last' financial year. It is contrary to the interests of the housing industry and the aspirations of prospective home buyers to seek to return to the over-stretched demand situation which existed in 1973-74. A return to that situation is contrary to the best interests of the economy as a whole and all persons concerned with home ownership. 
Nevertheless, although it may not be possible to maintain commencement of government dwellings at the same level as in 1974-75, the still substantial advances to be provided in 1975-76 will allow the completion by the State housing authorities of a much higher number of welfare dwellings than has been the case for many years and this will be occurring along with the recovery in private housing now in train. 
The Bill also authorises the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  to pay to the States in the first 6 months of 1976-77 the sum of $182.3m, which is half the allocation for 1975-76. This amount will be distributed on the same basis as the advances for the current year. In other words, the Treasurerwill be authorised to continue payments to the States for welfare housing in the period from 1 July 1976 until an appropriation measure for 1976-77 is passed by the Parliament. 
The advances to be authorised by the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill are repayable over a period of 53 years. The rate of interest payable on advances during the full 5-year term of the Agreement is fixed at 4 per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the State housing authorities and 4 1/2 per cent per annum in respect of advances allocated to the Home Builders' Accounts of the States. The apportionment of the allocations between the State housing authority and the Home Builders' Account will be determined after further consultations between myself and the housing Minister of the State concerned. 
The repayable interest-bearing advances will, as circumstances dictate, be made either from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund and will be on the terms and conditions set out in the 1973-1974 Housing Agreement. Provision is made for any payments out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for this purpose to be reimbursed in due course from the Loan Fund, when the Treasurer considers this appropriate. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2789 (Hansard, 5 June 1975, page 3546-7). 
Minister for the Australian Capital Territory  (Question No. 2813) 
-Yesterday, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  asked me a question about the level of unemployment in the Geelong area. I now wish to give information which I subsequently obtained from the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland). 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In the migrants' own interest I do not believe that a list of names as requested should be made public. I understand that, as a long standing practice, this has been the policy of successive Governments. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
32,676 applications have been received for assistance under the NEAT System for the 8 months period October 1974 to end May 1975. 
Of the applications, (a) 16,371 have been approved, (b) 9,840 have been refused and (c) 4,848 were in the process of being determined. In addition, 1,617 applicants withdrew their applications before approval. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The normal nomination procedure for persons nominated by relatives in Australia was followed and accommodation declarations would have been obtained. The accommodation undertaking is for a period of 1 2 months. 
Practically all of the Vietnamese refugees accepted by the Australian Government came to Australia without cost to themselves for transport. Some Vietnamese students, particularly during the first days of the Vietnam refugee situation and before the decision to pay fares of accepted refugees was taken, may have been informed in Australia that the fare to Australia was likely to be about $400 per adult. 
The Opposition has tried valiantly to build up a case out of nothing. It has tried to suggest that an undertaking required of 6 former diplomats and 3 former senior officers of the South Vietnamese Army is in some way an attack on all migrants and is in some way an attack on the civil liberties of all Australians. 
-My friend says that it is discriminatory. Of course, he has a convenient memory. I put it no higher than that for the moment. He is prepared to apply principles one way on one day and another way when it suits his convenience. The right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)-  formerly a senior Minister and formerly a Minister for Immigration, if I recall correctly, in a previous government- had no compunction at all about applying the same sorts of tests for other people. Suddenly this has become a matter of great importance. The right honourable member for Bruce brushes aside the fact that 500 people from West Irian were required by his Government to sign undertakings which in fact went much further. Certainly, those undertakings were as firm and inviolate in relation to political activity. He says that that is because those people were on the border. All Papua New Guinea is not on the border of West Irian. A person from Port Moresby is not situated on the border of West Irian. When the Government of which the right honourable member was a member made that condition it did not isolate it to apply to people living in a geographical location. It applied to anywhere in Papua New Guinea. Wherever they lived, they were still bound by the same obligation. That Government did not take the same view with the 17 000-odd Colombo Plan students. It simply imposed this provision and hoped for the best. 
Let us look at a couple of other cases. What about the case of  Mr Thomas  Clift from Burma? The then Government required him to give an undertaking not to engage in political activity because he was suspected of having some left wing tendencies. The right honourable member for Bruce also raised the point of this Government attempting to muzzle Greek Australians from speaking out against the military coup which occurred and the military junta which ran Greece. It was not this Government but a Liberal-Country Party Government which required  Mr Mikis  Theodorakis. the Greek musician, to give a similar undertaking that he would not engage in political activity when the military junta was running Greece. It was a government to which honourable members opposite belonged which required that, not this Government. So the argument of the right honourable member for Bruce is completely and utterly inconsistent. The statements which have been made are designed to cause unrest, suspicion and unease among the migrant community. They do the Opposition no great service; they do not bring any credit on the Opposition. I was very surprised that the right honourable member for Bruce should allow himself to be inveigled in this way. I know what his attitude to migrants and migrant problems has been in the past. I am very disappointed to think that today he has used this occasion for cheap political purposes, to try to cause this dissension, unease and uncertainty among the migrant community. 
Let the record be clear. This Government will oppose discrimination against migrants and will guarantee no discrimination against migrants in our society. I hasten to say that in years this Government has done more to guarantee an end to discrimination against migrants than our friends did in the 23 years of their Government. When did the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  who began this debate or the second  speaker  from the Opposition side, the right honourable member for Bruce, bring in any legislation or any administrative machinery to prevent discrimination against migrants or, for that matter, anybody else? But this Government did. When did the Government to which the right honourable member for Bruce belonged guarantee an appeal against decisions made by the bureaucracy or by the Government? This Government did.  His  Government did not. Is it not also true that during the reign in office of the right honourable member for Bruce, when he occupied senior ministerial positions, people were denied citizenship of this country? People who had been residents of Australia for decades were denied citizenship because of some suspicion of past political affiliation. 
-Of course it is true. What appeal did such people have? The answer is none. Honourable members opposite seem to think that this is an action taken by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and the Prime Minister alone. Other countries have applied exactly the same restrictions and have required the same sorts of undertakings. What nonsense it is to suggest that other countries have not required such an undertaking. 
For example, there has been a requirement by France which has advised refugees that they are considered to be under a moral obligation not to become involved. The Government of Thailand has done something similar. This undertaking has not been required of everybody who has come here. It was required of 6 senior diplomats and 3 senior military officers out of 600 refugees. I have been to see the Vietnamese refugees in their hostel at East Hills in Sydney. I have questioned them through an independent interpreter. I am satisfied, for my own purposes, that they are happy with the way they are being treated. They are being treated well and they are satisfied with the new life which they have commenced in Australia. If honourable members opposite want to stir up strife, to cause misunderstanding and a feeling of insecurity or to attempt to perpetuate hatreds which are inherited, let them talk to some of the refugees from Timor. Regretfully, they are pathetic, unfortunate people who are here as refugees. Let the honourable members opposite hear the stories of neighbour fighting neighbour, of former friend killing former friend and of members of families being kidnapped, with their wherabouts unknown. Let them go to the hostels and look at the children under 16 years of age. They will find two or three brothers and sisters standing hand in hand, bewildered by what has occurred. This is the sort of situation which any government has an obligation to avoid. 
At all costs we must prevent internal strife in this country. We do not want this sort of fomentation in our society which will give rise to this civil war and which will inflict this suffering on people. I believe that the Opposition is acting in a most improper way by trying to stir in relation to this issue. It has been said that  Senator Mulvihill  is guilty of hypocrisy and that the Government's action is reminiscent of the Hitler style of government. I reject that suggestion and throw it back in the faces of those who have made those ridiculous and improper allegations. The record of honourable members opposite will not stand up to examination. If it was improper for this requirement to be made in relation to 9 people who were heavily engaged in political activity in Vietnam, then surely it was wrong in relation to all the cases which, as I have mentioned, occurred under the previous Government. 
I make it clear also that it is wrong and false to suggest that this is the forerunner of second-class citizenship. The Prime Minister has made it abundantly clear that any undertaking given by any of the 9 persons concerned will lapse upon their acquiring citizenship of this country. There is no reason to suggest that they will not seek, at the appropriate time, to acquire that citizenship. I say to the Opposition that the qualifying time for acquiring citizenship has been reduced considerably since it lost office. There has been a massive increase in the number of migrants seeking citizenship since honourable members opposite left office. I believe that this gives the lie direct. It is completely and utterly false to say that 720 000 residents who are not yet citizens are affected by this proposition. The immigration policy of the Liberal-Country Party Government was discriminatory. It was racist in origin. It discriminated against southern Europeans and persons who were non-European. It discriminated on the basis of the colour of one's skin; it was not based on one's ability. There are some highly embarrassing examples which one could bring out in relation to people who were of mixed race. It is false to suggest that this Government is attempting to invoke second-class citizenship. It is a misapplication of honourable members ' energy which could be better spent on things other than raising this sort of issue. The Government has nothing to hide. It has asked people who have been heavily engaged in political activity in Vietnam not to engage in such activity in this country. 
-Of course it has asked, and these people have been willing to give such undertakings and we have been happy to accept them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Ministers time has expired. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am sure the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  does not really hold this Government responsible for the shortcomings of Whitehall during the battle for Singapore. I know that the Government has been accused of almost everything else, but this Government did not have much to do with whether somebody should dig a trench in Singapore during the early 1940s. When the honourable member refers to the problems of the Department of Defence and officer resignations, I think he would present a more balanced and fairer argument if he were to indicate at the same time that the re-signing of other ranks is running at a very high level indeed. So it is not all dissatisfaction in the defence forces. I thank the honourable gentleman for his comments about the National Employment and Training scheme, but I remind him that it is not only a question of training people who are unemployed, although certainly that is the position at the moment. Unemployed breadwinners are receiving priority, and the idea behind that is to ensure that they receive first preference so that they can get back to earning a living. But the NEAT scheme goes much further. Indeed one could argue with some force, I believe, that there is a greater need for a NEAT type of scheme when there is not unemployment because what occurs when there is full employment that there is an imbalance between the skilled and unskilled trades. That is something from which we have suffered for a generation or longer, and the NEAT scheme has remarkable possibilities in that regard. 
The honourable member's criticism about some union resistance is well made. There is some resistance in some craft unions to the retraining of adults. I concede that. However, I do not think his examples are appropriate. For instance, I know that it is quite inappropriate in respect of bricklayers. The Building Workers Industrial Union has been most co-operative in relation to retraining schemes operating in various parts of the Commonwealth, particularly in respect to bricklayers. There have been a number of very useful schemes which were of great benefit during the time of the acute shortage of building tradesmen. I should not like it to be thought that in giving the example off the cuff, as the honourable member did, that some criticism was being made of that organisation when no criticism is justified. Progress is being made. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
to (4). I am informed that the workforce at the Wauchope plant of Hancock Bros Pty Ltd was reduced by 50 employees between December 1974 and May 1975. As at 25.7.75, 12 of these 50 were registered with the CES as unemployed of whom 4 had completed an income maintenance entitlement consequent upon their being retrenched. On 16.5.75, 40 employees were retrenched from the firm's Ipswich plant. As at 25.7.75, 11 ex-employees of Hancocks were registered as unemployed with the CES at Ipswich. Hancock Bros Pty Ltd have related the reasons for these retrenchments to the effects of the 25 per cent tariff cuts of July, 1973 and specifically to the loss of markets due to the importation of lower cost plywood. 
I am advised that the question of whether the plywood industry is in need of temporary assistance because of the effects of imports was referred to the Temporary Assistance Authority by my colleague the Special Minister of State on 28.7.75. 
This is another matter of public importance which has been based on a completely false premise. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has based his argument on 2 assertions which are miserably false and are widely away from the truth. I challenge him now to show one shred of evidence where I advocated that Australians should be content to reduce from a 10-square house to a 6- square house. 
I challenge the honourable member for Hotham also, as a matter of honour, to illustrate where I have said that the Australian home seeker should be content with a 6-square home and that it should be reduced from 10 squares to 6 squares. I say that the statement is false. As a matter of integrity and honour I expect the honourable member to check his facts. The matter is on record and I expect him later this day to withdraw that quite untrue statement. 
I did not say it. It is quite untrue. It is quite false and improper to allege that I said it. What I did say was that expectations were growing higher, that Australian families were growing smaller, that houses were growing larger and I thought that costs were such that there would have to be some reductions. 
I will tell the honourable member why. It is not a question of a reduction from 10 squares to six, as he miserably represented it this morning, but it is a question of the average size of a house in Australia having risen to 16 squares. It is that cost structure- and that is what the building industry is producingwhich is making it so difficult. I expect the honourable member to withdraw his miserably untrue statement. 
The other false premise on which he based his argument- I hope that he will not try to wriggle out of it and that he will deal with it as a matter of honour and integrity, as expected of every member of this House- is that on 19 August I in some way brushed aside the fact that there had been a net increase of 150 000 in the unemployment figure. I took up an interjection by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and said that the Government regarded very seriously - 
I was drawing attention to a simple fact. It was that unemployment did not start this year. I say to the honourable member for Corangamite that whereas in previous times unemployment was induced by previous governments, on this occasion it was not. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  laughs. I will refer to what was stated by the previous Minister for Labor and immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he quoted from a Treasury minute in the year 1971-72. He said that the Budget of 1971-72 was designed to induce unemployment in this country and it succeeded. The former Leader of the Opposition boasted about its success. That is the significant difference between the Opposition's policy and this Government's policy. Anybody would think from listening to the honourable gentleman that Australia was the only country that had this difficulty. In fact Denmark, the United States of America, Canada, Germany and the United Kingdom- I could go on and on- all have similar problems. Every other comparable country in the world faces the problem of unemployment at this time. The reason is that the whole of what I might call the so-called Western nations are going through a period of economic downturn. Where facts are available, it will be seen that the United Kingdom, Italy, Belgium and France have a problem relating to unemployment, just as Australia has. 
The honourable gentleman then sought to assert that tax indexation would bring about a moderation hi wage demands. What is his real authority for making that claim? He believes it to be the case. It may be a legitimate view. But that is not the only way in which a moderation in wage demands can be achieved. In the current Budget, the Government has brought about a restructuring of the tax scale. 
The Government has introduced the commencement of a restructuring of tax scales which, I believe, will have a better effect on wage restraint than the suggestion which the honourable member puts forward. 
-That action is consistent with the recommendations in the Mathews Committee report. I believe that there is some trade union responsibility left in this country. I know that the honourable gentleman does not. I know that he is committed to the campaign of union bashing being conducted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
I know the honourable member is committed to that manifesto. I know that he thinks he has all the answers to industrial disputes. The Opposition says that it will solve the problem; it is going to strengthen the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. There are a number of people I can recall who had all the answers to industrial disputes. The first was Henry Ford. He engaged the underworld, the thugs and the bashers, and he failed. 
Then we had a gentleman named Hitler. He put union leaders and strike leaders in concentration camps. He failed. 
-The Government does have under consideration a number of schemes to assist employment generally. I think it is appropriate at this stage to mention that unemployment in the last month in fact fell. There were some 3393 people fewer unemployed in August than there were in the previous month, and unfilled vacancies also showed a marginal increase of 627, so there are now some 26 155 unfilled vacancies throughout the Commonwealth. It is all very well, of course, to rely on the statistical mechanism called seasonal adjustment. Seasonal adjustment of employment figures works on the premise that we are in a normal situation. In fact, at this time there is an abnormal situation. Our economy is corning out of a slump which has afflicted every comparable country throughout the world. Of course, that causes concern to some honourable members opposite. They do not want that recovery and they do their best in this Parliament and elsewhere to continue to undermine public confidence. 
In respect of the question of the phasing out of the Regional Employment Development scheme, I wish the honourable gentleman would make up his mind. On the one hand his colleagues are saying that they do not want the RED scheme, that it is invalid and unconstitutional; in the next breath they are saying that they want it continued. This Government is the first government to undertake seriously regional development. It is the first government to make a serious attempt to see that there is decentralisation in Australia and it is doing it in a number of ways. The honourable gentleman would do well to have a close look at what is being done in the area of technical and further education so that children in rural areas and in the country towns will have the opportunity to be trained in skilled employment, thereby making it possible for employers to start industries in those regions. If the honourable gentleman would look seriously once in a while at his own record he would find that although the Liberal-Country Party Government frequently advanced the argument that there should be decentralisation of industry, it did nothing to provide the facilities to train labour to work in those industries. The greatest single inhibition on employers decentralising their factories was that they did not have the capacity to obtain trained labour. All these facilities are being made available now whether the honourable gentleman likes it or not and they are being provided at a much more rapid pace than the honourable gentleman could ever have contemplated. 
On behalf of the Minister for Labor and Immigration, and for the information of honourable members, I present the first annual report of the National Training Council for the year ended 3 1 December 1974. 
. There were 2 things about the speech of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  which impressed me. The first was his statement that an elected government is entitled to govern. I wish he would tell that once in a while to his colleagues in the Senate. The second was that he apparently has not read the Conciliation and Arbitration Act very carefully otherwise he would not have made some of the statements he made. I suggest that he should look at what are the rights of government to intervene in industrial disputes, where government is restricted and how rigidly it is restricted. After all, his colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of 
Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  had a long time in which to correct that situation if he had been able to do so. I am sure it was not an oversight on his part but that he deliberately decided not to do it. I notice also that the honourable member for Corangamite said that it was not desirable to legislate in this area. Not desirable to legislate! 
I have looked at a document of the Liberal and National Country Parties' called  Employment and Industrial Relations Policy,  a remarkable document if ever there was one. It is a document stolen from Dixie- Governor Wallace would be proud of honourable members opposite. In it are some of the most remarkable pieces of proposed legislation that one could imagine and when the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress meets next week it might well have a hard look at the alternative to the present Government to see what it is in for. Also the Australian people might have a hard look to see what they are faced with if the alternative government on the other side of the House came to power. The Opposition parties stand for industrial confrontation the type of which has not been seen in this country for the last 50 years. Let me give a classic example of what they have in mind. They want consequences for certain unfair practices of employees and unions. 
These consequences are a remarkable - 
-Yes. Let me remind the honourable member what it says. 
I do not believe it-certainly not. It says: 
Examples of the kind of consequences which could be available to the Court would be: deregistration - 
That is a brilliant way to get a union outside the system to comply with it. Push it right out. That is a brilliant idea. Nobody other than whoever wrote this document would think of it. The document continues:  sequestration or garnishees of funds, fines, exclusion from office of employer industrial officers or office bearers of an organisation for a specified period, facilitation of steps by which an innocent party may claim damages for loss suffered as a result of an unfair industrial practice. 
Will honourable members opposite think for just a moment about what they are proposing there? They are saying that a company which employed a personnel officer could be told by some court that it could not have that person. He would be, as it were, blacklisted by the Industrial Court not to be employed. Are members opposite serious? Are they seriously suggesting that a union which, in a ballot conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office under the provisions of the Arbitration Act, decided by 25 000 votes to 200 votes that a certain person was to be the general secretary, could be told by the court that they could not have that person? Are honourable members opposite really serious about this? Who do they think would accept that proposition? Nobody would accept that proposition; nobody would accept it for one moment. Do honourable members opposite suggest that some court should have the power to say to the electors of Corangamite: 'You should not have elected  Mr Street;  he has been unfair and he cannot take his place in the Parliament.*? Members of the Opposition are seeking to deny the very basis of industrial democracy. They are seeking to deny the very tenet on which the whole system of trade union elections is based. They are saying that one can elect who one likes as long as it suits the court appointed by a Liberal-National Country Party Government. We know some of the judges that they have appointed in the past and what they would do. We know them well. We have seen them well and, in fact, they are known too well. The alternative to this Government's policy is confrontation and disputation in the streets. That is the proposition. Honourable members opposite would seek to push trade unions outside the system of conciliation and arbitration.  (Opposition members interjecting.) 
I indicate to the Committee that the Government proposes that the request of the Senate be met with modifications and that amendments be made to clause 3 of the Bill. The motion to suspend so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent the Committee considering the amendments was agreed to earlier today. May I suggest therefore that it may suit the convenience of the House to consider first the request of the Senate and when that has been disposed of, to consider the amendments which I propose to move to clause 3. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has received a projected estimate from his Department that the raw actual unemployment figures at the end of December will be in the vicinity of 400 000, that is after making allowance for the influx of 250 000 school leavers into the labour force at about that time. There are two other things that should be said. There are people who are prepared to make predictions about unemployment virtually by plucking figures out of the air. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions seems to think that there will be something of the order of 500 000 unemployed. But of course if the shadow Prime Minister's shadow Budget were introduced there would be at least 750 000 unemployed by the end of the year because of the massive reduction in government expenditure which would have an immediate effect on employment. If honourable members want to query and to look at these trends and projections, the point that also is available from the Department's projection is that in seasonally adjusted terms- I must say that I for one find great difficulty in accepting the validity of seasonal adjustment in unemployment - 
I am not one that does use it. The fact of the matter is that at this time the seasonally adjusted figure is higher than the actual figure. At the end of December the seasonally adjusted figure, in most cases, will be lower than the actual figure. I think there is a lot to be said for consistency. But this figure of 400 000 is a projection based on actual figures at the time. 
This week. 
I move: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration moving amendments to clause 3 of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill during the consideration in committee of the whole of an amendment requested by the Senate to the Bill. 
This is an urgent matter of raising additional funds for the operation of the stevedoring industry and for provision of certain payments to waterside workers. I do not believe that the suspension of Standing Orders will be opposed but I simply say to the House that for each day this legislation is delayed a loss of revenue by the Stevedoring Authority represents some $80,000. It is a matter of considerable urgency and I hope that the Opposition will co-operate in having this matter dealt with expeditiously. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 In Committee 

Consideration of Senate 's request- 
After clause 3 add the following new clause: 
The operation of this Act shall cease on 1 July 1976, or at such earlier time as legislation is passed providing permanent arrangements for the Stevedoring Industry in substitution for the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1974.'. 
I move: 
1 ) In paragraph (a) omit '$2.50 ', substitute '$4.00'. 
In paragraph (b) omit '$3.50 ', substitute '$5.00'. 
In paragraph (c) omit '$2.50 ', substitute '$3.00'. 
As honourable members will recall, the former Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, introduced the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill into the House during the autumn sittings. The Bill proposed increases in the maximum rates of charge that could be prescribed in respect of waterside workers. The actual rates of the charge are fixed by regulation within the limits imposed by the Act and are collected on the hours worked by a waterside worker. The Act provides that different rates are payable in respect of the 3 separate classes of waterside workers as defined in the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. Class 'A' waterside workers are by far the greatest in number and are registered regular waterside workers employed at weekly hire at permanent or continuous ports. Class 'B' waterside workers are employed at the smaller, non-permanent ports. Class 'C' waterside workers are few in number and are irregular waterside workers who, because of age or some special reason, are not obliged to attend regularly or make themselves available for employment. As stated during the former Minister's second reading speech, moneys collected by means of the Stevedoring Industry Charge are paid to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to enable it to discharge its responsibilities under the various Stevedoring Industry Acts. The charge, it should be noted, comprises only one element in the total cost of employing a waterside worker, which also includes such factors as award rates of pay, private employer levies and other costs. 
The Bill, which sought to increase the maximum rates of charge to $2.50, $3.50 and $2.50 for classes A, B and C waterside workers respectively, was subjected to a number of amendments moved by the Opposition. The amendments were designed to encourage the Government to bring in proposals for permanent arrangements in the industry and to have these debated prior to the expiry of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act on 30 June 1976. Ultimately, only the amendment intended to place a cessation date of 1 July 1976 on the Act was successful in the Senate. The Bill has now been returned to the House with the request that the House so amend the Bill. In respect of the Senate request for a cessation date of 1 July 1976, the Government maintains the view expressed in the previous debates that the amendment is unnecessary because the expiry of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act on 30 June 1976 will ensure an opportunity for Parliament to debate future arrangements for the industry. It is also inappropriate that a tax machinery Bill be so amended as this could place the industry in an impossible position should Parliament unexpectedly and suddenly rise in the autumn 1976 sittings without otherwise providing adequate income for the industry. However, in view of the urgent and pressing need by the Authority for the income which will result from the successful passage of this Bill, the Government is prepared to accept the amendment with some modifications. The modifications moved by the Government are of a technical nature only and will ensure appropriate legal authority to collect, after 1 July 1976, the charge in respect of work performed before the cessation date. This will be in accord with normal arrangements in the stevedoring industry in this regard wherein the charge moneys may not be accounted for until several weeks after work has been performed. The Government has sought leave at this time to propose a number of amendments in respect of the maximum rates of charge provided for by the Bill. It proposes to increase the maximum for Class A, Class B, Class C waterside workers to $4.00, $5.00 and $3.00 respectively. 
The Committee will recall that the former Minister  Mr Clyde  Cameron, when introducing this Bill in the autumn sittings, indicated that the increases in the charge then proposed were a response to a loss of revenue to the Authority resulting from the low level of stevedoring activity and rise in expenditure following significant wage increases for waterside workers.  Mr Clyde  Cameron indicated that were the passage of the Bill to be deferred to the Budget sittings the financial position of the Authority would become disastrous and that deferral could result in a 100 per cent increase in the actual rate of the charge, with a consequential increased impact upon commerce.  Mr Clyde  Cameron further indicated that, in the event of the Bill being deferred, the Authority would necessarily have to use long service leave moneys to meet its on-going expenses.  Mr Clyde  Cameron's warnings have since proved correct and the financial position of the Authority is now disastrous. The Director of the Authority has requested that the Bill be amended to provide for new maximum rates of the charge. These new rates have been incorporated in the Government's amendments. 
In support of the recommendations to amend the maximum rates of charge, the Authority considered the following factors: The further decrease in the level of stevedoring activity with a consequent further decline in revenue and a parallel increase in so-called 'idle time' payments; increased redundancy expenditure which will ultimately result in improved industry efficiency and long term savings; the need to protect the long service leave interests of waterside workers (the long service leave fund is near exhaustion through its use to meet on-going expenses) and the loss of revenue attributable to the fact that the Bill was not passed during the autumn sitting. The Authority has indicated that as a result of the continued low level of stevedoring activity and an increase in redundancy payments, the maxima previously set in the Bill will be inadequate for the purposes of meeting current expenses. The new recommendations will allow scope for actual rates of the charge to be sufficient to meet anticipated on-going expenses until June 1976, and would restore the financial position of the Authority to at least that prevailing at the beginning of the year. 
The Government accepts that relatively large increases in the charge are envisaged. The Authority's cash reserves, including long service leave moneys, are virtually exhausted and unless provision is made for the restoration of some financial stability to the Authority, it will remain on the brink of insolvency. Already the position of the Authority is such that it is meeting its statutory commitments only with considerable difficulty. Certain payments have been deferred or delayed and waterside workers are expressing concern at whether money will be available to pay their long service leave. The Government has received the very strongest representations from the industry and the Stevedoring Industry Council that urgent action be taken to ensure a proper rate for the charge and the continuing financial stability of the Australian Industry Authority. 
When this Bill was before the House earlier this year, members of the Opposition expressed concern as to future arrangements for the stevedoring industry and sought the Government's views on this. The then Minister noted that one possibility, already canvassed by members of the Opposition as helping to provide a solution to the industry's problems, was the idea of setting up a national or Australian stevedoring industry corporation. The Minister said that he believed there was merit in that proposition.  Mr Cameron  indicated, however, that, before facing up to the many problems that would need to be surmounted with such a proposal, the Government would need some reasonable assurance that the appropriate legislation would not be blocked. Since that time, the present Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  has had under consideration various reports and submissions made by industry interests over the years on future arrangements for the industry. The Minister has determined that, because of the far reaching social, industrial and economic implications of this whole question, it is proper and necessary that he should satisfy himself personally of the issues at concern by hearing the views of those directly involved with the industry. He has already met with several parties in the industry and received submissions from them. He will continue to do this. At the same time, the Minister recognises the considerable merit inherent in what the Opposition suggested in the earlier debate and in the view by  Mr Clyde  Cameron that, before attempts are made to settle upon future arrangements for the industry, reasonable assurances would be required from the Opposition as to its attitudes. 
I thank honourable members opposite for their co-operation in having this matter dealt with expeditiously because, as I said at the outset, it is very important that it be dealt with without delay. This is an inappropriate time to debate all the problems besetting the stevedoring industry and I would not like it to be thought that because I did not respond to the matters raised in the debate I have a lack of interest in or agreement with the problems put forward. The Government has not rejected lightly the suggestion of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  for a joint parliamentary committee. It merely considers it an inappropriate way to look at this or any other problem that honourable members raise. I am authorised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  to say that if the honourable member wishes it the Minister will be happy to have consultation with him. The Minister and I would meet with the honourable member together with representatives from the Department of Labor and Immigration and of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to consider this and any other matters he wishes to raise. That is a genuine offer by which the Government will stand. 
However, on the question of inquiries let us look at what has happened since the Second World War. There was the Foster inquiry which was set up on 19 October 1945 and its report was presented on 22 February 1946. Then there was the Basten inquiry which was set up 1 6 July 1951 and its report was issued on 4 January 1952. Then we had the Tait inquiry which was set up 25 November 1954 and 2 reports were issued, one being an interim report on 28 February 1956 and the other being a final report on 7 March 1956. Then we had the Woodward inquiry which was commenced in 1965 and the final report was made in April 1967. Of course it is from the Woodward report that the Stevedoring Industry Council was formed and the present arrangements made. To suggest another parliamentary committee of inquiry or some other inquiry of that type I think would do little except to inquire again into an industry which has probably been inquired into more often and possibly in more depth than any other industry in Australia. After each inquiry and the adoption of the recommendations in its report somebody says: "That has solved nothing, let us start again'. We cannot continue doing that  ad infinitum.  At some stage the industry must be allowed to settle down. If there are difficulties that have to be corrected and if the Opposition through its spokesmen wishes to make suggestions for overcoming these problems, its suggestions will be welcomed, considered and discussed with it in an appropriate and proper way. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Mr Riordan)  agreed to: 
That in the message returning the Bill to the Senate, the Senate be requested to reconsider the Bill in respect of the amendments made by the House of Representatives to clause 3. 
in reply- There is almost terror in my heart as I hear that threat coming from such a person as the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  However, I am somewhat relieved, when I understand the ferocity of his attack, to realise that he either does not understand or did not listen to what I said. In outlining this reference, I said: 
The proposal is for the construction of a 6-storey multiward block . . . 
It has a lower ground floor, a ground floor and 4 other floors. If the honourable gentleman has any criticism of or wishes to make any submission on this reference, as he ought to know the appropriate way to do that is to appear before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works which, I am certain, will give to his submission the weight and attention that it deserves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The former Minister for Labor and Immigration, the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron, explained on 19 May this year that the Commonwealth Employment Service figures do not purport to show the number of people actually out of work. They show the number of persons who are registered for employment, and there is and can be a significant difference between the 2 figures. There is no reason why a person who is employed cannot register in order to seek another job. He breaks no law. It is no illegal act for him to register in this way. People displaced from one occupation may take a job in another industry. They may register for employment in their old industry in the hope that a vacancy will occur and they will be able to return to their previous employment. Persons looking for a second job or part-time work may register. 
If those facts are known to the Commonwealth Employment Service, such people are not included in the figures. However, frequently the facts are not disclosed. The staff limitations imposed on the Commonwealth Employment Service prevent a thorough and complete clearing out of persons who obtain employment and who are not in receipt of unemployment benefit. There are, in fact, some long delays occurring at the moment in some instances between the time people who are registered for employment obtain employment and the time they notify the Commonwealth Employment Service, and some of those people are shown in the Commonwealth Employment Service figures. It therefore follows that people who are no longer available for employment can be and in some cases are still registered under the Commonwealth Employment Service figure. 
On the other hand it has to be said that some persons looking for work may not be registered under the Commonwealth Employment Service figures. It is, however, believed by the Department of Labor and Immigration that the introduction of schemes, such as the National Employment and Training scheme and the Regional Employment Development scheme and the general manpower planning schemes which were developed by the previous Minister, have encouraged persons to use the Commonwealth Employment Service more regularly for the purpose of obtaining employment. 
The procedures for compiling labour statistics in Australia, to the undying shame of the Opposition when in Government, are simply not adequate for current purposes. They are quite inadequate when compared with those of almost all industrially developed countries overseas. This Government has introduced a Bureau of Labour Economics, and that body will certainly improve the situation once it gets started. As explained last May, the Commonwealth Employment Service figures are at variance with the Bureau of Statistics survey. In May, which is the last month for which figures are available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the number shown out of work as a result of the scientific survey undertaken was 192 000 persons. The Commonwealth Employment Service figure was 248 000 for persons available for employment. That is a difference of some 56 000 persons. The Department of Labor and Immigration recognises the deficiency in the Commonwealth Employment Service figures, and that Department has strongly urged the Australian Bureau of Statistics to undertake its employment survey on a monthly basis rather than on the present irregular basis. 
Without diminishing in any way the seriousness of the unemployment situation, it must be said that the Commonwealth Employment Service figures can and in fact do overstate somewhat the position of unemployed persons. The lack of really sophisticated information opens the way for irresponsible speculation, estimation and mischievous guesswork on what unemployment figures are or are likely to be. 
UNEMPLOYMENT  Mr MALCOLM  FRASER- My question is addressed to the Treasurer. The Treasurer has assured the House that the unemployment rise expected in January was taken into consideration in the Budget strategy. Does he acknowledge that the Budget strategy would have been planned in July? If so, does he agree that there is a wide discrepancy between his answer and the statement made in the House yesterday by the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration who said that the Government learned only last week that the unemployment figure would reach 400 000 in January? Can he explain the difference? 
There is now widespread support for wage indexation since the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission adopted it as a result of the initiative of this Government and the trade union movement. There is, of course, some opposition. Some employers now support the proposal for wage indexation. All State governments, irrespective of political flavour, support wage indexation. Some employers- a diminishing number- are opposed to wage indexation. The Opposition has made it clear from the outset that its members are uncompromisingly opposed to wage indexation. Wage indexation certainly stabilises costs in that it removes the need for employee groups to claim in expectation of higher cost escalation. The strong opposition by the Liberal and National Country Parties has to be read with interest in order to be believed. On 10 December 1974 the Leader of the National Country Party said that wage indexation should not be countenanced for Australia. He said that indexation would tend to stimulate inflation rather than slow it down, contrary to most sensible economic advice. He said it would add to the destruction of initiative and enterprise, but he also found it necessary to advocate at the same time the indexation of interest rates- a remarkable proposition- in order to ensure that interest rates kept rising in accordance with the consumer price index. He saw indexation as part of a plot to achieve a subtle revolution in Australia- a remarkable assertion. 
On 14 July the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that he ruled out any chance that the Opposition would support wage indexation. He said that the Government's policy was completely unacceptable to the Liberal and National Country Parties. Its introduction would be economic madness, was the way he put it. On 16 January the Leader of the National Country Party, in the Melbourne  Age,  said that - 
-What I am saying is the absolute truth. On 16 January the Leader of the National Country Party in an article in the Melbourne  Age  said that wage indexation would be another insidious method by which the most productive people would be penalised and further discouraged from working harder, working overtime or advancing themselves to higher positions. On 20 January the learned scribe,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser M.P., as he then was, said in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  that the Liberal- Country Party had strong opposition to wage indexation because it believed that it would be just one further ratchet in the process of wage escalation. On 2 1 January in an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  the learned scribe also said: 
I am certain Australia cannot take the risk of introducing indexation. 

 Mr Snedden on 27 January said that indexation would further aggravate the inflationary impact of wage claims, displaying an appalling ignorance of the situation. In his Budget speech the Leader of the Opposition said that wage determination procedures chosen by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission must be supported. He attempts to mislead people. What he means is that if, in spite of his opposition, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission grants wage indexation, he will say that everybody must support it. I add that in the LiberalNational Country Party manifesto for industrial confrontation- called their industrial relations policy- they are clear in their exclusion of wage indexation as a method of wage fixation. They listen to far too many experts- experts who are hardly qualified on the subject. I remind them of the advice given by a former Prime Minister of France,  Mr Pompidou.  He said that there are 3 ways for a politician to ruin a career- chasing women, gambling and trusting experts. He said that the first was the most pleasant, the second the quickest and the third, trusting experts, was the surest. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: 
Construction of a proposed multi-storey ward blockRepatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes, Queensland. 
The proposal is for the construction of a 6-storey multi-ward block designed to accommodate the requirements of 288 beds, kitchen and dining facilities, library, duty medical officers' common rooms, convention room, staff change and amenities rooms, storage room and plant room. A service tunnel is proposed to connect the new works to an enlarged boiler house. The building will be of reinforced concrete frame with external brick sheeting designed to be in harmony with surrounding development. The block will be air conditioned throughout. Three bedpassenger lifts and 2 food lifts are proposed. In accordance with departmental standards for hospitals, an automatic fire detection system is also proposed. The estimated cost of the proposal at May 1975 prices is $11.5m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
I shall be very brief. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  obviously believes that he has found some discrepancy, that there has been some misleading of the Parliament. He is wrong. The only attempt to mislead the Parliament has been his effort tonight. If he looks at what I said this morning, if my recollection of it is correct, he wm see that I made it clear that where the Department ascertains that persons were employed those persons are not included in the numbers shown as persons looking for employment. I believe I made that clear; my recollection is that I did make it clear. The fact of the matter is that the government which the honourable member purports to support, that is the government of the category A school boys in exile who would dearly love to get back into office, during its reign of office let the country down badly and nowhere in a more serious sense than in the provision of adequate labour statistics. Australian labour statistics have the reputation, correctly earned, of being amongst the worst in the world. Honourable members may say - 
-Do not talk such utter rot and nonsense. Try to act a Utile more intelligently The fact is that since this Government has been in power there has been proposed to be established and has been commenced to be organised a Bureau of Labour Economics which should make a significant contribution in regard to the establishment of proper labour statistics. It is no use honourable gentlemen opposite trying to quibble about it, the fact is that the Bureau of Statistics conducts a survey consistent with international standards. That survey is conducted only on a quarterly basis now. When the previous Government was in office it was conducted at greater intervals on a much more irregular basis. That survey indicated that last May 56 000 fewer persons were unemployed than were shown as being persons seeking employment in the Commonwealth Employment Service figures. Those are the undeniable facts. The honourable member for Petrie can try to find, if he likes, some great international conspiracy in which the Department of Labor in the United States, the Government of the United Kingdom and most governments of Western Europe are all engaged to mislead their respective parliaments 
My dear ignorant friend, the officers of the Department of Labor and 
Immigration for some time now have been consistently asking the Australian Bureau of Statistics to undertake a monthly survey of employment because they, like I, recognise the deficiency in the present figures. The only persons who will not see that deficiency are those who either do not want to see it or those who are too dumb to see it. 
We are doing something about it. If you would listen for a moment you would find out. Neither the previous Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, nor I, are guilty of attempting to mislead this Parliament. There has been no misleading. In fact we have been frank and clear about the matter. There is no question of trickery. There is no cunningly conceived plot. 
And he was heard in silence on this side. But of course he cannot take it. He is like a lot of other people around this place. They love to dish it out. They love to find a conspiracy and when their error is explained and their proposition is shown to be stupid they react rather vigorously. 
There is really nothing to answer. There has been no misleading of the Parliament. All of the facts were put before the Parliament this morning. It was made clear that persons who the Department knew to be employed were not counted. As I said this morning, with the pressure on officers of the Department with the staff ceilings which were imposed by the Government it is no longer possible with the same regularity as was previously the case to clear out the names of persons not in receipt of unemployment benefits. Those are the facts. There is no suggestion of any lack of effort by officers of the Department. The fact is that with the introduction of the National Employment and Training scheme, the Regional Employment Development scheme and other manpower planning schemes their volume of work has increased enormously. I stand by what I said this morning. What I said this morning was the fact, and I defy the honourable gentleman to put up any reasonable proposition to show that it is not. If he believes that I have attempted to mislead this Parliament he has the remedy and he should put up or do the other thing. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question was given on 27 August 1 975,  Hansard  page 665. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Financial Assistance (Question No. 2699) 
Provision was made in the original rules of the Regional Employment Development scheme for adjustments to be made as a result of increased costs. I am aware that some applications have been made in this regard; I am not aware that applications have been rejected. If the honourable member says that some have been rejected, I will certainly raise the matter with the Minister for Labor and Immigration and provide him with a suitable answer at the earliest possible opportunity. I should say again, however, it is heartening that at least some members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party are now seeing the virtue in the Regional Employment Development scheme. It is a pity that they did not always do so. It is a pity they do not try to convince some of their State colleagues to withdraw their objection and their challenge to the continuation of schemes such as the RED scheme which are the initiatives of this Government and which assist in reducing unemployment and at the same time provide a useful community service. 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of members of Parliament I bring up the report of the Committee entitled 'Declaration of Interests' together with the minutes of proceedings and transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Again we see an example of desperate people clutching at straws, hunting around, seeking here, seeking there, seeking everywhere to try to find some stick with which to belt this Government. What do we find here? We find a complete misconstruction by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  of an item in the report of the Priorities Review Staff being built up as something being considered by the Government. I have never heard such a load of hogwash as I heard in the honourable member's speech this afternoon. It was built on a misconstruction. In fact it was utterly false. The fact is that the Priorities Review Staff - 
I know that the honourable member has some difficulty getting through 487 pages of the Priorities Review Staff report. It is a very strong report. 
-That is what I said; it has 487 pages. I congratulate the honourable member. At least he has read the numbers correctly. I would not have thought that the honourable member would have been so exhausted by the time he reached page 18 as to misunderstand the report. What the Priorities Review Staff said was this: 
We suspect that the taxation of imputed rent might come high on the list of the politically infeasible and administratively complex. 
I hope that I am pronouncing it correctly and that the honourable member understands what I mean. They went on to say: 
If such a tax were introduced there would be some tendency to convert other debts into debts secured on dwellings. 
They go on to produce a series of arguments against such a tax which are far more convincing than the feeble attempt by the honourable member for Boothby in the late hours of Sunday night to whip up a bit of controversy. 
I have read it all. The honourable member says that the Government is considering the imputed tax idea as proposed in the report. I say 2 things in reply to that: Imputed tax is not recommended by the PRS to start with, and the Government certainly is not considering such a tax. That is the fact of the matter and any suggestion that this Government is attempting to slug, as you put it, the affluent to discourage home ownership is sheer and utter nonsense. I am surprised that you would make such a statement without being more careful, as you usually are, to ensure that your facts are right. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister should address his remarks to the Chair. He has been consistently addressing the honourable member for Boothby. 
I did not intend it, sir. I was really attempting to address you. If you gained the impression I was not, I regret it. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer on 5 December 1974  (Hansard,  page 4773). 
Government's Publications and Inquiries Centres: Staff  (Question No. 2852)  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the names of the persons working at each of the Government's Publications and Inquiries Centres. 
What type of previous experience is required for employment in these Centres. 
What training are personnel given to handle both sales and inquiry functions prior to being employed in the Centres. 
Where is the training given. 
5 ) By whom is it given. 
How are complex inquiries received at the Centres subsequently referred to the Departments concerned, when they cannot be finalised on the spot. 
What is the central reference unit in Canberra which has been set up to assist and co-ordinate the local centres. 
Who is employed in the central reference unit. 
What is the past experience required of each member of the unit. 
10) What training does each member of the unit receive prior to being employed in it. 
What is the total annual cost of establishing and maintaining the existing Publications and Inquiries Centres including the cost of telex or telephone usage in order to finalise inquiries. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
I have seen the statement by the Victorian Minister of Housing,  Mr Dickie.  It is unfair and it is based on a false premise. The Victorian Government this year will receive the same total amount of funds for welfare housing as it received last year. That figure is $98. lm. I contrast that with the $36.5m which was handed over to it in 1 97 1 -72- the last full year of the Lib- - eral Country -Party Government -Y-et-the-.fact_ that  Mr Dickie  has received for welfare housing in Victoria an increase of $6 1.6m in comparison with 1971-72 apparently eludes him. The other fact that he ungraciously overlooks is that the Victorian Housing Commission itself will keep for its own purpose this year an additional $6.9m over what it had last year. This is because the Victorian Housing Minister asked me to approve a breakup of the funds to give the Housing Commission a greater proportion this year- a sum of 80 per cent of the total funds- as against the amount paid last year. So  Mr Dickie's  criticism of this Government is ill-founded and unfair. I believe that if he is relying on that factor alone to increase rents he is relying on a very shaky base indeed. He may well have cost increases; I expect that he would. There may be some justification for an increase in the rent. It is quite ludicrous for  Mr Dickie  to suggest that he has to make such a savage increase in rents because he is getting less money from the Australian Government when in fact he is getting more. 
-The Priorities Review Staff did not recommend a tax on home owners. I suggest that the honourable member read its report up to at least page 18. I know it is a very long report.  His  colleague, the honourable member for Boothby, apparently could not get that far, or if he did he did not understand it. If the honourable member for Deakin reads that far he will see arguments against such a proposition by the Priorities Review Staff which are more convincing than those the Opposition spokesmen have put forward so far.. The PRS points out that it would be politically infeasible and administratively complex to have such a tax. It is certainly canvassed in the PRS report in some detail. It is a matter there, I suppose, for interested persons to consider and to think about, and I suppose it also gives the opening for those who wish to make mischief to go busily about their activities. But the statements made by Opposition spokesmen on this matter are false. I have said so before and 
I will continue to say so. I ask them to read the report up to page 18 if they do not want to go further. They will see there set out the arguments against the proposal. 
I am not aware of the administrative detail of that scheme, but I will obtain the information and supply the honourable member with it at the earliest opportunity. Let me say this to him in passing: It is a little ludicrous really for members of the Opposition, who for 23 years gave no assistance for the training of apprentices in Australia and no assistance to young people to train, to speak this way. Their only attempt was the setting up of a pathetic imitation of a training council in the later years of their administration. The fact is that this subsidy to apprentices is part of a Government scheme to ensure that adequate skilled labour is trained for the future development of the Australian economy. When honourable members opposite stand and say, 'Isn't it bad that this may be curtailed' or 'Isn't it bad that it does not go far enough', they ought to think back and ask themselves what they did. They should not be surprised when they find that the answer is nothing. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969-1974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a telephone exchange building, Deakin, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of a new building to cope with the growth and demand for telecommunication facilities in the southern sector of the Canberra local network. Construction will be of reinforced concrete, with a basement, ground and 2 upper floors. The building will be air-conditioned. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Committee was $13.5m. The Committee made the following recommendations and conclusions: 
the existing facilities are approaching full utilisation. 
The proposals of the Australian Telecommunications Commission to provide for the long term needs of the expanding networks are soundly based. 
The construction of a new telephone building at Deakin is appropriate to meet these needs. 
The site is suitable but consideration should be given to portion of the land being handed back to the National Capital Development Commission. 
The Committee recommends construction of the work in this reference. 
Investigations are currently being conducted by the Australian Telecommunications Commission regarding the dimensions of the land to be handed back to the National Capital Development Commission. Accordingly, it is recommended that the House concur with the Committee 's report thus allowing planning to proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Three-year program for construction of development roads in the Northern Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of the following development roads in the Northern Territory to bitumen sealed road standards: 
Petermann Road from Erlunda on the Stuart Highway to Ayers Rock; 
Jay Creek to Hermannsburg Road; 
Jay Creek to Glen Helen Road; 
Tanami Road from the Stuart Highway to Yuendumu; and 
Daly River Road from the Stuart Highway to the Daly River crossing. 
The total estimated cost of the proposal at September 1975 price is $19.35m. I table plans of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of naval transmitter building and power centre, Humpty Doo, N.T. 
The proposal is for the erection of new transmitting facilities for naval operational communications in the areas to the north of Australia and in the Indian Ocean. It will form part of the Naval Communications Station Darwin, the other elements being the receiving station at Shoal Bay now nearing completion and the modernised communications centre at Coonawarra West. The proposal consists of a transmitter building, housing administrative, technical, messing and sleeping facilities. A secondary building will house the associated power supply. Other components include a flammable stores building, guard house, water supply and antenna farm. The estimated cost of the proposal was $4.5m at June 1975 prices. The Committee concluded there was a need for the facility, the site selected was suitable and that work should proceed to construction. It is recommended that the House concur with the Committee's report allowing detailed planning to proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) 1133 Vietnamese have arrived* in Australia since 1 April 1975. 1034 were admitted for permanent residence and 99 were admitted for temporary residence. 
Profile of Vietnamese granted permanent residence- 119- spouses, minor dependent children and aged or otherwise dependent parents of Australian residents 63- persons who met the occupational requirements for migrant entry 42- persons admitted on compelling compassionate grounds or accepted by religious orders in Australia 203- selected in Hong Kong at the request of the Government of the Colony of Hong Kong. Those selected were most in need of humanitarian assistance which re-settlement in Australia would provide and were not likely to receive such assistance from another country. 223- selected in Singapore at the request of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Those selected were most in need of humanitarian assistance which re-settlement in Australia would provide and were not likely to receive such assistance from another country. 103- selected in Malaysia at the request of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Those selected were most in need of humanitarian assistance which re-settlement in Australia would provide and were not likely to receive such assistance from another country. 281 -orphans admitted for adoption. 
Profile of Vietnamese admitted for temporary residence- 46- family reunion including spouses and children of Vietnamese students in Australia. 53- persons admitted on humanitarian grounds. 
* Arrival statistics are not available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the period of July-September 1975. Arrivals shown include persons who are believed to have arrived in this period and are provisional only. 
Dossiers on cases are continuing to be received and currently some 20 to 30 are being assessed. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The first section of the reply lists inquiries undertaken, their purpose and information relating to the preparation of reports, their receipt by the Government and tabling in Parliament (where that occurred), which relates to parts I to 5 (inclusive) of the question. The second section deals with the recommendations contained in the reports and consequent action, and relates to part 6 of the question 
Where recommendations fall within the jurisdictions of other Ministers, the information on follow-up action has been supplied by their respective Departments. 
For the purpose of brevity the terms of the recommendations have been shown only in those cases where the particular report has not been tabled in Parliament. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The requirement for a few members of the South Vietnamese regime who sought political asylum in Australia to undertake not to engage in political activity or to allow themselves to be exploited in political activity arose because there are people both within the Parliament and outside who would try to exacerbate division in the community in the light of the situation that developed in Vietnam. Similar circumstances do not apply in respect of persons from Chile. 
No such change in estimate has been given. I understand that the Department of Labor and Immigration has estimated that the actual unemployment figures- not the seasonally adjusted figures- in JanuaryFebruary of next year to be of the order of 400 000. The Department's estimate is not subject to variation on the basis of the figures released over this last weekend. For example, the figures at the end of September showed that on a seasonally adjusted basis the number of unemployed rose by . 1 of 1 per cent, that is, from 5 per cent seasonally adjusted to 5.1 per cent seasonally adjusted. 
The actual number of persons registered as unemployed in fact declined by 2135. There are some other figures too which might interest the honourable gentleman. For example, there are now 6000 less people employed on Regional Employment Development schemes of one kind or another since the end of August. But the number of those persons who have registered as unemployed is only 1700. So we can see that two-thirds of those who have been displaced from RED schemes have not registered as unemployed. 
The other figure which might be of interest to the House is that the level of overtime as disclosed by the survey conducted by the Department continues to rise. Honourable members will recall that it was 1.6 hours in June, 1.7 hours in July, and an average of 1.8 hours in August last. So, there is some indication that the labour market is marginally strengthening rather than weakening. Hence, the assertion that there would be 500 000 unemployed, and now apparently a figure of 450 000 out of work, in the January-February period seems to be poorly based. 
I thank honourable members for the contributions that have been made- some more than others because some contributions were more relevant than others. I regret that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  decided to make a speech in this debate about Aboriginal housing which has nothing to do with this portfolio or this Department in any way whatsoever, except for the Department acting as an agent for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I do not wish to canvass the ruling of the chair but I simply say that the honourable member gave a speech about nothing that was really relevant to the portfolio that I have. However, I want to say that he was quite unfair in his criticism of the activities of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. He was quite unfair and indeed it is false to suggest that this Government does not stand for dialogue, consultation and co-operation with Aborigines in the field of Aboriginal housing. But my Department of Housing and Construction is concerned with Aboriginal housing only as a service department. It acts on behalf of other departments. 
Having spoken on the irrelevance of that speech for a moment I turn briefly to the contribution of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  He seems to think that the estimates for this Department are hopelessly understated. 
-He has looked at the figures and he has discovered that on things such as travelling expenditure, office requisites and cost of postage and telegrams less money is apportioned this year than was apportioned last year. I congratulate him on being able to look at 2 columns of figures and to recognise that one represents a lower figure than the other. That is something to be commended. But what he also might have done is to have made some preliminary inquiries about the matter and looked at the administrative arrangements that were made in the early part of June. He then would have understood the clear and simple reason for the reduction. It is no plot. It is no plan to deceive. It is no error of judgment. It is no accounting fault. It is simply that 1234 employees who were previously employed by the Department of Housing and Construction have now been transferred to the Australian Housing Corporation. In other words the transfer of the defence service home loans activities from the Department of Housing and Construction to the Australian Housing Corporation transfers that expenditure to the Department of Urban and Regional Development. That is the simple explanation. 
A great deal has been said in this debate and further scandalmongering has been indulged in. The Opposition has engaged in scandalmongering and misrepresentation in respect of the Priorities Review Staff's report on housing. I say again and I shall keep saying that those who say that the Australian Government is considering a tax on home ownership, a tax on imputed rent or a tax on houses of more than a certain size are spreading a false, malicious rumour. They are making false and mischievous statements which have no foundation in fact. Reference is made on page 22 of the Priority Review Staff's Report on Housing to the propositions which members of the Opposition have referred to and which are canvassed in the report. In this regard the report states: 
But such devices have relatively little to be said for their equity and efficiency, are not less administratively complex and are not obviously more saleable politically than the preferred alternatives outlined above. 
If the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  will simply look at the report, up to page 18, he will see that the propositions to which the Opposition claims the Government is giving consideration at the moment are described by the Priorities Review Staff as 'politically infeasible and administratively complex'. The propositions are canvassed, and I concede that they are certainly canvassed at some length. 
The alleged merit is canvassed as well as the alleged deficiency. But it cannot be truthfully or accurately said, I think, that the PRS has recommended to the Government that it adopt these 2 proposals. That cannot be said, unless there is a massive misconstruing, deliberately or otherwise, of the proposals which the PRS has put before the Parliament in this report. 
Of course, it is all very well for those opposite to complain that they do not get access to all the reports, all the discussion and all the propositions which are made from time to time, but as soon as we see put forward a report which openly and frankly canvasses alternatives, it seizes on an aspect, on one point, misconstrues it and attempts to attack the Government. The Opposition s misrepresentation will not be swallowed. I know that members of the Opposition are engaged in a cynical campaign at the present time. I know that they are engaged as the political desperadoes of Australia, desperate to try to get power by any means, to use any strategem, to use any tactic to try to grab power. But they shall not succeed because they cannot succeed on a falsehood. If the premise of their argument is false - 
-Well, they will not succeed now. 
Yes I will. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  The debate will continue through the Chair. 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Chairman. I say that honourable members opposite will not succeed because they will not succeed in pulling the wool over the eyes of the Australian people ever again. 
I know that you can claim to have done it for 3 years, but the thing is that that you will not do it for the next 3 years. The Opposition did not succeed in 1972 and in 1974 and it will not succeed whenever next there is an election, whenever that may be. 
Let me just ask honourable members to consider some very significant points in the next minute of two. Firstly, in the last 2 years this Government has made available more funds for public housing than ever before and its record will stand up against any long period of time to which one might wish to refer. 
-Worth less, nothing. In each of the last 2 years the funds made available represent  2Vi  times as much as was made available in the last year of government of honourable members opposite. That is a fact that cannot be denied. 
One of the reasons there is a rental problem in this country today is because of the continued neglect of the State colleagues of honourable members opposite who have sold off housing commission homes without regard for the problems of renters and at a substantial capital gain for those who have least deserved it. But when we talk about the rapid escalation in costs, let us look at the facts. The wholesale price index of materials used in house building is showing a steady considerable fall. For example, it was running at 22 per cent- almost 23 per cent in fact- in March of this year. It is now down to less than 15.5 per cent. The time taken to construct an average cottage has fallen. Total costs are starting to be reduced. In other words, the increase in costs is reducing. Wage indexation will bring greater certainty. 
I think honourable members opposite ought to recognise also that the reason total money amounts in this year's Budget are lower than those of last year is because advances were made in June of last year clearly on the basis, as the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  said, that they would be taken into account, as they were, and offset against this year's amount. 
Motion (by  Mr Riordan)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  spent a considerable amount of his time in pointing up the deficiences and the difficulties which have been associated with the administration of the National Employment and Training scheme. I accept that there are deficiencies and that there are many imperfections in the NEAT scheme. But let me put it to him in this way: It is far better that there should be a NEAT scheme with all its imperfections, with all of its teething troubles and with all of its difficulties than that there should never have been the NEAT scheme. For a generation of neglect under the Liberal-Country Party Government this country did not have a manpower policy of any kind. We had ad hocracy at its worst. Here we have a situation where a scheme has been developed hurriedly without the adequate planning that this Government would have liked to have given it, but the urgency of events demanded that a scheme be implemented. We have learnt from our mistakes and the administrative errors, and they are being corrected. I am indeed grateful for the manner in which the honourable member brought his criticism forward. It has been noted and will be taken up and followed through. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  raised some criticism about the administration of the Department, particularly in respect of the Auditor-General's report concerning some overpayment under the income maintenance scheme. I am able to confirm for him that the majority of the funds which have been overspent on the income maintenance scheme have been recovered and the balance is in the process of being recovered. A considerable amount is still outstanding. The Department had the option really to dot all the i's and cross all the t's or get the money out to these people in need in a hurry. It opted to do what was the humane thing, to get the money into the hands of those who needed it as quickly as possible. Hence there has been some overpayment. Those who have received the overpayment are honest people and have so far responded to the call to repay the funds which were overpaid to them. 
The honourable member for Corangamite also raised some criticism of the Regional Employment Development scheme. He mentioned that in the electorate of Braddon some $500,000 had been spent. The energetic and very vigorous honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  has pointed out to me that the figure is at least double that amount. In fact 36 projects have been approved in that electorate at a cost of $1,044,000. There are very many applications for RED scheme assistance. In the Braddon electorate 180 projects were approved, but in many cases where sponsors had indicated that they were ready to proceed immediately there were long delays between the time when the scheme was approved and when the work commenced. In some cases at least, sponsors of RED scheme projects lost sight of the objective of the scheme, which was to put to work quickly people who were unemployed, whilst at the same time engaging in a project which had community value. It has been a very good scheme, and I for one am somewhat tired of the hypocrisy of members of the Opposition who come into this Parliament and bemoan the fact that the RED scheme has had to be curtailed to a very large extent whilst at the same time encouraging their colleagues in the States to challenge the validity of the RED scheme. They attempt to assassinate it outside the Parliament but come into the Parliament on the other hand trying to uphold its virtues. Their stand is not being accepted except in the spirit in which it really should be seen. 
My colleague says that members of the Opposition are shedding crocodile tears. They certainly are. 
Sympathetic consideration is being given and will be given to those who have sponsored projects on which expenditure has already been incurred. It was made clear that increased costs would not be part of the scheme, but even there the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  is looking at particular projects to ensure that substantial justice is done in every case and that there is no undue hardship wherever that can be avoided. So those who are concerned ought to recall that this Government introduced this scheme and is keen to ensure that those who co-operated in it are not left financially disadvantaged if that is at all possible. Every project will be looked at on its merits. 
The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  had some things to say about the migration scheme. Again it was an exercise in humbug. He had the gall to stand before this Parliament this afternoon and criticise this 
Government for the funds that are being spent on migrant education, on language training. 
-Of course you did. Let me remind the honourable member of some figures. In 1970-71 the government he supported, a Liberal-Country Party government, spent $3.875m on the total migrant education services. In 1971-72 it excelled itself. It went to $6.275m. This year the amount is $20.4 14m. That is the difference- nearly three times as much as the former Government's last full year- and the honourable member criticises it. Let me talk about last year. One has to look at the estimates for the Department of Education to find the figure for adult migrant education. In 1975-76 it is $7.6m. Last year it was $4.8m. I thank those honourable members who made intelligent and positive contributions. I now move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Northern Australia 
Proposed expenditure, $51,1 94,000. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) I am informed that it is not feasible to attempt to calculate the estimated cost of providing office accommodation and furniture for all new public servants appointed to the Australian Public Service because of the many variables involved. 
In respect of office accommodation these include the differences in space allocation between the various levels in the Service; the significant differences in rental charges for leased accommodation in different areas; and the difficulty in devising a formula which could be applied to the acquisition or construction of new Australian Government buildings to calculate an estimate of cost applicable to new public servants. 
Similarly, differences in price, quality and freight costs associated with the purchase of office furniture; the different furniture entitlements for the various levels in the Service; and also the usage of items of furniture on hand for new public servants preclude any meaningful estimation of cost per new public servant employed. 
The total number of staff employed under the Public Service Act, other than in the Departments of the Parliament, increased from 266 752 to 277 455 during the financial year 1974-75. 
The total cost of furniture and fittings, rent and the acquisition of sites and buildings for the Australian Government (excluding amounts spent under the Defence appropriation) increased from $64,324,807 in 1973-74 to $89,851,141 in 1974-75. 
The total wages bill for staff employed under the Public Service Act, other than in the Departments of the Parliament, increased from $1,700,805,000 in the 1973-74 financial year to $2,193,456,000 in the 1974-75 financial year. These figures include salaries and payments in the nature of salaries, e.g. overtime. 
The major causes of the increase in the total wages bill were: 
application of National Wage Case increases occurring during the financial year, 
other pay increases awarded to Public Service Act staff, and 
growth in staff numbers. 
It is not possible to identify more clearly the actual additional salary cost of every new employee appointed during the period. 
Because of the many variables involved (see (1)) it is not possible accurately to equate the growth in costs of office accommodation and general costs associated with a new employee with the growth in employment. 
The Right honourable member will be aware that the Government has imposed restraints on staff growth and administrative expenditure including the non-replacement of existing office furniture and fittings, during this financial year. 
Anybody who listened to the speech of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  must feel some sadness and disappointment. The real difficulty of the Opposition is that it is engaged in an action which is unfortunately a combination of cynicism and irresponsibility. I was disappointed this morning that the Opposition did not take a more positive, more intelligent and more reasoned approach to this subject. When I first saw the matter of public importance listed I thought that the Opposition might put forward some sensible, intelligible suggestions in the national interest to assist in what is a real and crucial social and economic problem. My disappointment is immense. I am bitterly disappointed that the Opposition's so-called shadow Minister for Labor, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who sits opposite me does not agree with what I am saying. Unfortunately, therefore, I will have to lump him in with my remarks about the Opposition's approach. Frankly, I thought that he had more to him. I hope that he will not persist with this line. 
The Opposition has raised this matter of public importance. One would expect that at least something would have been said in a positive and progressive manner. What sort of proposition is put forward? We heard quotations from Plato from the year 400 B.C. I do not have the unemployment figures for that time. 
-Yes, but I note that it was used in the context of trying to denigrate youth, as certain people in every generation denigrate their youth. The honourable member is no exception. I say that there is nothing wrong with the youth of Australia today. Honourable members opposite will never get over the shock to their system when this Government gave 18- year-olds the right to vote. They will never recover from it. 
The honourable member for Petrie talked about the worst inflation, the worst economic conditions, the worst industrial disputation and the worst unemployment since Federation. What utter garbage! There is no other way to describe that statement. Where has the honourable member been? Does he not know what happened in the Depression? Does he not know of the great industrial disputes of the past? Does he not know what happened in the 1920s, in 1949 or in the early 1950s? Does he not know about the inflation of the 1950s? Does he not know about the great industrial disputes of the 1920s? Of course there is bad inflation. Of course there is bad unemployment. But when the honourable member makes such a ludicrous, broad, sweeping statement he merely displays a degree of ignorance that is unaccountable in a member of Parliament. 
This Government will use every effort and will strain every muscle to eliminate unemployment: It is a cardinal plank of the policy of the Australian Labor Parry that it shall not have unemployment. The Government will use every effort to avoid it. It must be recognised by every reasonable person that our trading partnersthose who have a similar economic system to ours and those who do not- are suffering from the same sort of pressure of inflation and unemployment at this time. The national interest is not served by this cynical attempt to ride to power on the backs of the unemployed. I wish that some of those who hold senior offices in the Opposition understood personally what unemployment was all about. It is all right to talk about it from a lofty height, from the intellectual safety of the ivory tower, from the background of the silver spoon. Those who understand the difficulties and the trauma of unemployment would never tolerate it as a deliberate policy. The Government accepts that the present position is intolerable. It will be doing everything possible to eliminate it with the shortest possible delay. 
But some of the suggestions which are made from time to time are so economically unsound that not only would they not assist the current position but they would also positively worsen it. Some of these sorts of speeches made in this Parliament tend to undermine the confidence of the Australian community in the economy, thus making the situation worse. The honourable member for Petrie suggested that the Government's attitude has prevented people from saving. For goodness sake, savings bank deposits are skyrocketing at the present time. They are now in excess of $ 14,000m. Our problem is not that people will not save; one of our problems is that people are saving too much because they are listening to those who preach the gospel of despair and doom and they are scared to spend. This situation has been encouraged deliberately by some irresponsible and cynical sections of the Opposition- the desperadoes for power. 
The labour force in Australia between November 1972 and May 1975 has increased by 4 1/2 per cent- not decreased. At the end of May there were almost 260 000 more people in the labour force than there were at the end of November 1972. Let me remind the honourable member for Petrie that at the end of 1971 and early in 1972 some 65 000 school leavers were looking for work. But I did not hear him or his Party expressing this grave concern then. In fact they did nothing. 
In a moment we will come to how you did that. We expect that about 250 000 school leavers will be coming on to the labour force at the end of this year. The Department expects that about 80 000 of them will be registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as unemployed. We are not suggesting that there will be a rapid absorption, because of the slow pick-up that is presently occurring in the economy. One of the great problems of unemployment to which I have referred in the past and which members of the Opposition do not wish to face, is that at any time when all of the unskilled labour of this country is employed there is an acute shortage of skilled labour. When there is not an acute shortage of skilled labour and when there is a balance between the vacancies and the jobs available there is acute unemployment among the unskilled labour. That is a legacy of the Liberal years of neglect. Like it or not, those are the facts. The Opposition might as well face up to the situation because it will not be allowed to forget it. 
What this Government has done in the meantime has been to endorse such things as the national apprenticeship assistance scheme, which was introduced by this Government in 1973 and which has been a significant and substantial encouragement to employers to train young people. Under the National Employment and Training scheme for non-apprenticeship employment a subsidy is payable to employers to encourage them actively to train people with inplant training. It would do Opposition members much more credit if they were prepared to use their energies and efforts to highlight and publicise these schemes and to advise those in the labour force and the employers that these schemes are available. They should be encouraging people to know about them. They should be encouraging people to use them rather than discouraging them. Every time they make a speech, members of the Opposition attempt to undermine confidence in order to bring about a failure so that they can gain some cynical political advantage. 
In 1975-76 the Australian Government will be spending $40m in these various forms of assistance for training. This will make for a more flexible labour force which can be better utilised in Australian industry and commerce, thus overcoming the great deficiencies and difficulties that come from unemployment. The honourable member for Corangamite recently made a statement about the Commonwealth Employment Service. Let me say to him: Yes, the Commonwealth Employment Service is visiting schools. He seems to think there is something sinister in that. What the departmental officers are saying is that school leavers should seek the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service as soon as possible to advise what they should do. The careers reference centre caters for some 300 000 people every year. 
-The Opposition parties did set it up and I congratulate them on at least taking that faltering step but they need not have kept it such a secret. They never advertised that service. They hardly told a soul about -it; we have. We have extended it and last year about 300 000 people went to see it. We are not saying to young people that they should go down and get on the dole, as was implied in the statement of the honourable member. 
-We are not saying that. We are advising them of their rights. The situation is that on the one hand some members of the Opposition say that all youths who are not working are sponging on the rest of the community while on the other hand others are saying that we should not be encouraging them to get- out to work. I do not know what it is that members of the Opposition are trying to achieve. 
The other thing that this Government is trying to do is to extend the Employment Service and to ascertain what vacancies exist for school leavers, particularly those with the necessary skills. For those who cannot find employment, for those who are unable to obtain reasonable employment, this Government has increased substantially the unemployment benefits payable in order to reduce the disadvantage and the suffering. No monetary payment will ever overcome the indignity, the mental trauma and the suffering of a person who genuinely wants a job and cannot get it. 
-I am pleased to know that the honourable member agrees. I am pleased to know that he will stop this garbage can treatment of young people who have not got employment. Referring further to the field of training, under the student assistance schemes in 1971-72 the total expenditure by the previous Government was $32.7m but this year under this Government it will be $95.25m. In the field of student enrolments, 14.6 per cent of the population between 17 and 22 years was enrolled in 1971 and 18.1 per cent was enrolled in 1974, an increase from 1 93 000 to 250 000. In the last 8 years of LiberalCountry Party administration in this country the Government spent $77m on technical and further education. 
In the period from 1973-74 to 1975-76 the amount being spent is $151.7m. The honourable member for Corangamite interjected and said that the previous Government got them jobs. That is part of our problem. It got them jobs all right but it did not encourage people to acquire the skills that this country needs. It just threw them into dead-end jobs. It did not matter what it was. The Government at that time was concerned about factory fodder. We are concerned about human development. That is the difference. Honourable members opposite are concerned only about providing labour for the mills. We are concerned about providing labour for those industries which are essential to Australia's long term advantage - 
... . and ensuring that the individual citizen can obtain those skills that he wishes to obtain. The honourable member for Corangamite says that there will not be many left. That is the sort of irresponsible cynicism that he should be ashamed to utter. What he is trying to do is to talk down this economy further. As a prospective responsible Minister he should be using his best efforts to increase confidence and to get factories re-opened and expanded. Instead of that all that the Opposition is trying to do is to run down the economy. This cynical and irresponsible act is a cruel attempt to exploit the plight of the unemployed in this country. I only wish that some honourable member opposite had had some first hand knowledge of unemployment. Some honourable members opposite certainly will have it before too long because when the Australian people next get their chance to speak I think there will be one or two honourable members opposite who will not be around this place. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of proposed new complex for the Antarctic Division headquarters and for the Hobart regional laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories, Kingston, Tasmania. 
The proposal involves the construction of 8 separate structures, seven of which will be occupied by the Antarctic Division and which will provide accommodation for offices, display and conference areas, laboratories, workshops and stores while the remaining one will contain separate offices and laboratories for the Hobart regional laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. The buildings will be constructed with reinforced concrete columns and floors and pre-cast concrete wall panels. The roof will be of galvanised steel decking, suitably insulated, and windows will be of tinted glass in aluminium frames. Air conditioning will be provided to all occupied areas in the laboratories, administrative buildings and instrument workshop. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7m at September 1975 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969-1974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Second three-year program of improvement and maintenance of the Stuart and Barkly Highways in the Northern Territory. 
The proposal is the second 3-year program for the highways and includes approximately 325 kilometres of pavement strengthening and widening, approximately 235 kilometres of road realignment and the construction of 14 bridges, besides routine maintenance and pavement resealing. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $34.6m. The Committee in recommending the construction of these works has concluded that: (i) The Stuart and Barkly Highways form the main road links within the Northern Territory and its continued development is dependent on the provision of adequate transport facilities; (ii) the upgrading in accordance with the national highways standards is justified and will increase road safety; (iii) the works will reduce the prolonged transport delays now experienced in each wet season; and (iv) the economic and social benefits which the proposed improvements will provide to the Northern Territory community are considered to outweigh any possible adverse environmental effects. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That the resolution of the House of Representatives of 5 December 1974 referring the construction of the proposed central laboratory facilities, Casuarina, Northern Territory, to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, be rescinded. 
The Darwin Reconstruction Commission is responsible for all works in the Darwin area, which is that part of the Northern Territory within a distance of 40 kilometres from the Darwin Post Office. This proposal is also the responsibility of the Commission and does not require to be referred to the Committee. 
I move: 
That the resolution of the House of Representatives of 28 November 1974 referring the construction of the proposed water resources centre, Darwin, to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, be rescinded. 
The Darwin Reconstruction Commission is responsible for all works in the Darwin area, which is that part of the Northern Territory within a distance of 40 kilometres of the Darwin Post Office. This proposal is now the responsibility of the Commission and does not require to be referred to the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I thank the honourable member for his comments on both projects. They were substantially put back on account of the disaster -that afflicted Darwin through Cyclone Tracy. The planning of both projects is continuing. The date on which they will reach contract documentation has not yet been determined. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the right honourable Member's question: 
Question No. 1715 was answered on 2 October 1975 (see  Hansard of  2 October 1975, pages 1715 to 1718). 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of a navy supply centre and army workshop facility at Defence Establishment Zetland, New South Wales. 
The proposal is for the redevelopment of the exLeyland car manufacturing plant at Zetland for defence purposes to provide a Navy supply centre and an Army workshop and servicing facility. The work proposed comprises the construction of one major new building, the conversion and rehabilitation of existing buildings and the installation of specialised stores handling and vehicle servicing facilities. A complete fire detection system is proposed for all buildings together with an improved fire suppression installation. The rationalisation and upgrading of engineering services, the renewal of major sections of roofing of 3 buildings and any necessary minor maintenance of buildings are also included. The estimated cost of the proposal on August 1975 prices is $13.5m. I table the plans of the proposed work. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Sadadeen high school, Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of a second high school in Alice Springs to provide educational facilities for approximately 500 students, with site potential for Stage 2 extensions to meet further population growth. The building will be constructed with reinforced concrete columns and floors. Most external and internal walls will be of locally manufactured concrete masonry. However, to provide maximum flexibility some internal walls will be designed as lightweight partitions which can be removed or relocated as necessary. The roof will be of coloured steel deck suitably insulated. Windows will be aluminium framed with tinted glass to alleviate glare. Evaporative cooling and winter heating will be provided to all occupied areas of the school. 
The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred to the Public Works Committee was $5.43m. In the course of the public hearing the Committee was informed that a detailed examination of the design aspects of the proposal had resulted in a revised estimated cost of $5.2m. The Committee concluded that there is a need for a second high school in Alice Springs to cater for the projected growth in enrolments, that the site is suitable, and recommended the construction of the work in the reference. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and Electoral Bills (Nos 3 to 7) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
An interim reply was forwarded to the honourable member on 11 June 1975, and a substantive reply on 30 September 1975. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2789 which appeared in Hansard on 5 June 1975 (page 3546). 
This Bill seeks to do no more than to give voters assistance to make a free and unqualified choice as to who they wish to vote for at a particular election. The opposition to this Bill is a further classic example of the humbug and the mania for obstruction which is possessed by this Opposition. This is not some unusual or unique proposal. Some 25 countries have already adopted a proposal that the political affiliation of candidates be shown on the ballot paper. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  in introducing this Bill nominated 25 countries ranging from Austria to the United States, from Canada through to the South American countries, most of Western Europe, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Italy, South Korea and Luxemburg. Twenty-five countries have this provision in their electoral laws. But the honourable gentlemen opposite seem to take the view that it is some sort of a plot by the Australian Labor Party to gain an advantage. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask you and members of this House to analyse what members of the Opposition have been saying this afternoon. To make it easier for a vote to be formal and counted in an election is apparently a plot by the Australian Labor Party to gain some advantage. To ensure that the disadvantaged and the aged, in filling out a complex Senate ballot paper, have their choice counted as far as they wish it to be counted is a plot according to the Opposition. The fact that we get something like six or eight times the number of informal votes when we have a large number of candiates as in the last Senate election in New South Wales as against the last House of Representatives election in New South Wales, apparently fades away into insignificance as far as the Opposition is concerned. It is determined to try to perpetuate a system whereby minorities can be elected to government. The Australian population ought to recognise this for what it is. It is a planned campain to have Australia ruled by a minority government. The Opposition has never accepted the fact that majorities should control governments in Australia. It is ludicrous to put forward a proposal saying that this legislation is some devious scheme to give the ALP an advantage or some devious scheme to make it harder for persons who are not members of major political parties to be members of this Parliament. It is sheer and utter nonsense. This legislation in fact makes it easier for the elector to cast an intelligent vote. 
Of course I can understand my friends from the National Country Party not wanting that to happen because there would be a few of them who would not be around for long if they got an intelligent vote in their electorates. But the fact of the matter is that this proposal will allow for each candidate to be classified and named and identified on the ballot paper. The various provisions contained in this Bill which require the registration of the name of a political party are designed to prevent abuse. I can understand the apprehension of the Liberal Party which changes its name every few years. As soon as the old one gets worn out it tries to put on a new cloak to cover up the same old faces. I can understand the National Country Party, or the Australian National Country Party, or the National Party, or whatever name it finally determines, not wanting to have the same name in every State. I can understand that. But the people ought to know. The electorate in, say, New South Wales, ought to know that it is ashamed of the name it uses in Queensland and it ought to know that the National Country Party does not want to wear the mantle of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  or it does not want to have that noose around its neck is the better way of putting it. The Opposition parties cannot have a multiplicity of names. A party should have one name. If a party wants to have different names a simple procedure is involved. It registers a different party name. It can do that, but it must be a separate party. 
Humbug, cant and hypocrisy will not and should not in any way confuse the Australian people. This is a typical example of the Liberal and National Country Parties' opposition to every suggested electoral reform. Whether it be in regard to positions on the ballot paper or, as in this case, the question of identifying the candidates in accordance with their political affiliation, or optional preferential voting or more proper and reasonable electoral boundaries, the conservative forces of the Liberal and National Country Parties will be seen in opposition and they will fight these proposals all the way through because they insist on trying to perpetuate minority rule. Any misrepresentation, any strategy is fair for them, so they believe, in order to prevent the majority of the population of Australia having the final say in who controls the government of Australia. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

The Minister for Labor and Immigration has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Briefly, the present functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service are: 
the registration, referral and placement of applicants for employment; 
the raising, registration and filling of job vacancies; 
the collection of statistics relating to the labor market including comprehensive monthly surveys of CES transactions in dealing with the unemployed, the numbers unplaced at the end of the survey period, vacancy activities, unemployment among school leavers, the handicapped, Aborigines and apprentices, employment and overtime in larger private factories with appropriate comments on the reasons for significant variation in figures; 
the provision of Vocational Guidance or Employment Counselling when necessary; 
the review of industrial, occupational and related trends with regard to present and future demands for labor and to give advice and information on labor market trends to employers and prospective employees in the area; 
to offer a special employment counselling and placement service to school leavers, the handicapped, older workers, discharged servicemen, ex-prisoners, aborigines and migrants. A special service is also offered in respect of professional employment, harvest labor requirements and in meeting requirements for major construction and other projects; 
to advance fares (on a repayable or non-repayable basis) to workers proceeding to jobs or employment interviews for work to which they have been referred by the CES; 
to operate the National Employment and Training System. This includes the identification of clients likely to benefit from training, counselling clients about training opportunities, approving courses of training within given delegation and the supervision and oversight of ongoing training; 
to receive, investigate and make recommendations on claims for Income Maintenance and/or relocation under the Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme; 
to refer and place clients in Regional Employment Development Scheme (REDS) projects; and 
to act as an agent for the Department of Social Security in relation to the administration of certain provisions of the Social Services Act 1947-1975, particularly in the issue and receipt of claim forms and first income statements for unemployment benefit and in the administration of the 'work test' which is the system used to determine whether suitable employment is available for a claimant or recipient of unemployment benefit. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The 1975-76 advertising publicity and information budget Division 365/2/06 proposed for the Department of Labor and Immigration includes $350,000 for advertising. A provision of $23,000 for migration advertising on behalf of the Department of Labor and Immigration is also included in the appropriation for the Department of the Media. Previously this particular item was included in the appropriation of the Department of Labor and Immigration. 
The planned Labor and Immigration advertising program for 1975-76 includes $ 100,000 for staff advertising and $250,000 for promoting employment opportunities particularly for youth, handicapped persons and aborigines, and for apprenticeship and industrial training. 
In 1974-75 expenditure on advertising amounted to $ 1,534,678. Prior to the amalgamation of the Department of Labour and the Department of Immigration in mid- 1974, aggregate expenditure by both Departments on advertising comparable with that included in answer to question ( 1 ) is as follows: 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2586 which appeared in Hansard on 5 June 1975 (page 3545). 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service has provided the following information for answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Government's decision that, as a special measure of expenditure restraint, persons travelling at Government expense on internal domestic airlines in future would do so at economy class rates was announced by the Prime Minister on 18 August 1975. 
The decision was to take effect from 1 September 1975. The Prime Minister stressed, however, that until the decision was implemented the Government expected all persons covered by the decision to observe its spirit by travelling economy class. 
With regard to staff employed under the Public Service Act Departments were notified of the Government 's decision and the Public Service Regulations were amended to delete references to class of travel. For staff not employed under the Public Service Act, the appropriate authority was requested to give similar effect to the Government's decision. 
While I am not aware of any particular instances of public servants travelling first class on internal domestic airlines, it is possible that some may have continued to do so up to 3 1 August 1975. From 1 September 1975 1 would expect all Departments and authorities to be applying the Government's decision. 
The Public Service Board has advised Departments that in those instances where staff have an entitlement to a particular class of travel in accordance with a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator, the determination provision should continue to apply, and, that the Board would take up separately the question of seeking amendments to any relevant determinations. The Board has now examined this , matter further and I am advised that there is one determina.lion currently affecting staff employed under the Public Service Act which specifies a class of travel for internal domestic air travel. In other areas of Australian Government employment an entitlement to first class domestic air travel is contained in several awards/determinations of arbitral tribunals. Appropriate amendments to the relevant awards/ determinations will be sought as soon as possible. 
The information sought is not readily available. There are relatively few areas where staff have an entitlement to first class domestic air travel contained in awards/ determinations. Overall, the staff concerned do not undertake extensive domestic air travel. Furthermore in the case of these staff the Government would expect that they observe the spirit of the Government's decision and travel economy class in the interests of reducing expenditure. 
I move: 
Inpart5omit'Section2l2 . . . Repeal the section'. 
I have circulated the amendment to Schedule 1 on page 25 of the Bill to omit the proposed repeal of section 212 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The position is that the Postal and Telecommunications Commission (Transitional Provisions) Act 1975, which was assented to on 12 June 1975, contains in Schedule 2 a similar amendment of the Commonwealth Electoral Act in respect of the repeal of section 212. This amendment came into operation on 1 July 1975. Consequently the repeal of section 212 has already been effected. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Schedule 1, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
I have seen allegations that wage indexation, the policy which has been adopted by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on the initiative of this Government, is in the context of a wage freeze. That description is completely inaccurate. Wage indexation guarantees a maintenance of purchasing power of all wages for wage and salary earners generally; that is, those covered by awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the arbitration tribunals of the various States. It also means that industry and commerce are able to plan knowing that wage increases will be within a certain limit. They can look forward to wage increases being adjusted from time to time in accordance with the movement in the consumer price index and are not concerned that unions will be seeking to claim in anticipation of what they may guess to be the likely increase in the cost of living. It is important to note also that every State government eventually supported the Australian Government's proposal as did a significant number of employer organisations. 
It is also significant to note that the Liberal and National Country Party Opposition, particularly its Leaders in this Parliament, vigorously and strongly opposed the Government's proposals. The former Leader of the Opposition, before he took his walk through the valley of death, strongly advocated that the Prime Minister should instruct the Minister for Labor to change the Australian Government's submission. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, while he was walking across his tightrope, said that the Liberal Party would never accept wage indexation. He said that it would be sheer economic madness to introduce wage indexation in 1975. The present Leader of the Opposition said that he was certain Australia could not take the risk of introducing wage indexation. Of course, the Leader of the National Country Party thought that it would be foolish to bring in wage indexation. In fact, he reached the extraordinary conclusion that indexation would form pan of the subtle, silent revolution at work in Australia. So much for this allegedly alternative government which has virtually no policy on wages. 
It has no real policy on wages. There are 2 points in this document called  Employment and Industrial Relations Policy,  which is put out by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. This is alleged to be a comprehensive statement, but it has 2 points on wages. The first is that there is a need to raise the minimum wage in Australia. The second is to provide for skill, effort and responsibility. I read those points. I fancied that I had seen them somewhere. I found out that this was part time, partial, plagiarism as those parties took those 2 points from the platform of the Australian Labor Party. But they are very silent indeed- and understandably so, because they probably do not know any better- on how they will ask the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to implement these 2 policies. Of course this matter causes some amusement to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. But one can understand that; it is probably a nervous giggle. In respect of union bashing, let me briefly refer to 2 points,  Mr Speaker. 
The Government does not accept the proposed amendments and adheres to its original proposal. The Government's proposal is that where a person in the employment of Australia, a State or some public authority is sent overseas in the service of Australia, the authority or the State, he and his spouse are entitled to retain their enrolment and voting rights. As the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  said, the Opposition's proposal would mean that everyone and anyone going abroad for any period, no matter how limited or unlimited that may be, would be entitled to remain enrolled and to vote in parliamentary elections. One might take the view that a person who was abroad for 20 years would still be entitled to vote even though he were not in the service of Australia. I think that there is a clear difference between those who are abroad in the service of Australia, a State or a public authority and those who are abroad for their own personal or private reasons. Of course, those who are abroad now are not necessarily denied the right to vote. That right is guaranteed under the other provisions of the Act. But where a person is overseas for an extended period he does not have that right. 
The proposal of the Opposition concerning a person who has a fixed intention of returning to Australia and of living within a subdivision is far too wide. The Government believes that it would be open to abuse. The honourable member for Curtin also said that this is another example of the Government's seeking to amend the law to suit itself. That is a grossly improper thing to say. He has said it several times and I cannot allow it to continue to be said without challenge. In this particular clause the Government is seeking to facilitate the rights of certain citizens to vote in parliamentary elections. The many amendments to these Bills- particularly to this Bill- seek to assist in the democratic procedure of conducting elections. The obvious proposal which comes from the honourable member is that the more voting is facilitated, the more people are able to vote, the easier it becomes to cast a vote, the fewer informal votes there are, the more this will assist the Government That may well be true, but it is also true that to facilitate the expression of opinion by electors is basic to the democratic concept. It is just as logical for me to say that what he is putting forward is that he is seeking to make it harder, that he is seeking to subvert the democratic process, that he does not really want an expression of majority rule, that he wants a manipulated result whereby the Opposition parties can scramble back into government. It is a forlorn hope. I am sorry to disappoint him. That is a very long way off. 
The Government opposes the amendment. We oppose the amendment because we believe that it introduces provisions which would be open to abuse and could result in fraud. 
I will tell the honourable member for Curtin how. There is no provision in the amendment which in any way places an obligation on a person, having been removed from the register, to notify of a change of address. It could facilitate impersonation. A person might move from the address for which he is registered and some other person who may not even be enrolled could be at that address. It could be that a person who is not entitled to be enrolled could be at that address. The fact that somebody applies once and satisfies the returning officer once that he is entitled to a postal vote does not necessarily mean that that will be so in the future. Section 85 is specific and it has been for very many years in restricting the right of postal voting. It is restricted for good reason; that is, because postal voting is open to abuse. Successive governments have decided, wisely in my view, to ensure that postal voting be kept to those circumstances and cases where people would otherwise be deprived of the right to vote. Any person who is residing a long way from a polling place is entitled to apply. It is well known. It is advertised at every election. There is no reason to suggest that a person who lives some distance from a polling place cannot apply for a postal vote. 
It is not a city argument. 
It is not. The fact is that people living in the city happen to go to country areas, or did the honourable member not know that? That is one reason why people apply for postal votes. I can remember when I narrowly lost an election in 1969 because an extraordinary number of absentee votes came in from a place called Werris Creek which everybody knows is a little railway town in the north-west of New South Wales, not known as a place to which people from Bondi go for their annual holidays. Nevertheless, these votes all turned up and honourable members would be surprised at the way they went. At any rate, I do not want to go too far into that except to say there is the prospect of impersonation of voters under the present electoral system and this proposition which is put forward now by the Opposition would make this easier. I will give the honourable member for Curtin good advice. We are not having this proposal. We will not have it. We will oppose it. The person who has a legitimate reason to vote by post can make an application and that application will be facilitated. The proposition put forward by the Opposition is open-ended- open-ended in the extreme. It would mean that a person having once got himself on to the register of postal voters would be entitled to stay there almost forever until the returning officer found some reason to take him otT it 
Yes, once. 
-When he makes a declaration. That is what I am concerned about. In fact, that leaves the way open for impersonation. I believe it is fair to say that on world standards the present provisions for postal voting are very generous and they should not be made more generous. I believe the Opposition's amendment should be rejected. 
The Government does not accept that this clause should be deleted. In the present Commonwealth Electoral Act there is a grave and serious deficiency and this amendment which has been proposed by the Government seeks to overcome it. The fact is that, whether the honourable gentleman opposite likes it or not, the Distribution Commissioners are virtually prohibited from having staff to assist them in what is a very onerous, complex and difficult task. I find it absolutely incredible that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  would say on behalf of the Opposition that he will seek to deny and will hope to succeed in denying the Distribution Commissioners such staff assistance as is necessary. 
If the honourable gentleman wants a division we will have a division but the fact is that he is doing a very wrong thing in seeking to inhibit the Distribution Commissioners at any time from giving full effect to their obligations under this statute. At present there is no way in which they can appoint staff. For example, if the Distribution Commissioners wish to have a survey done, if they wish to have some research undertaken or if they wish some person to undertake an examination of various facets or facts which surround a particular proposition, they cannot do it; they have to do it themselves. That seems to me to be a waste of time and a very inefficient way of carrying out a business. It strikes me as being incredible. It is suggested that the Minister has too much power under this proposal but the fact is that somebody has to determine how many people can be employed. There must be some public responsibility for it and some person has to have responsibility for saying how much remuneration or what allowances shall be allowed to such persons as are appointed. If the Minister does not do that I do not know who else would do it. It is all very well to say that he should draw on the Public Service. I would have thought that that proposition was more open to the criticism which the honourable member put forward. In other words, in the Opposition's view some person from the Minister's Department or from some other Government department should be appointed. Our way would mean that a person with professional independence was appointed. A person who was appointed to this position and who did not have that quality would undoubtedly soon be the subject of criticism in this place. 
-I believe the Opposition's proposal is too narrow. We may want experts from beyond the Public Service. 
Of course it is the intention to have persons who are experts in their field. 
-It does not say that they shall not be in the Public Service. 
-I thought the honourable gentleman was saying that we should restrict it to members of the Public Service. 
If the honourable gentleman is curious I will say it again. I believe the provision as it stands in the Bill would allow the widest possible choice of expert assistance to the Distribution Commissioners at any given time. It is a simple proposition which has a great deal to commend it for the efficient operation of the Distribution Commissioners in their work. There is no plot involved in it. After all, what harm can they do? They will not have any say in what the distribution should be. That is clearly in the hands of the Commissioners and the present statute does not allow them to be given any assistance. It seems to me to be a completely negative and obstructive approach on the part of the Opposition if it is going to oppose a simple proposition of this kind which is designed to give effect to a provision which will allow the Distribution Commissioners to have some assistance. 
I want to make it clear that it is not a question of seeking to have some persons superior to others. It is simply a question of whether those who are abroad as part of their public duty should be given a right to vote. That is the Government's proposal. We see this proposal by the Opposition as being far too wide and being open to abuse. That is why we oppose it. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Garland's)  be agreed to. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
and (2) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 3110  (Hansard,  page 1598 of 1 October 1975). 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Committee on Community Relations. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970-1973 I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My predecessor's statements regarding the housing inspection service referred only to consideration of a proposal to establish such a service. This proposal is currently still under consideration. 
I am unable to say yet with any certainty what the impact will be except to say this: Within 3 weeks the Government will not be able to meet its commitments in respect of certain works and construction; by the middle of December the Government will not be able to meet some other commitments; and by the end of December it will be completely unable to meet its commitments in the field of construction. That will have some pretty horrific consequences not only for the building and construction industry but also for employees in the industry and for the economy generally. I cannot believe that in this Parliament there are such cynical and heartless people as would inflict such economic vandalism on the Australian community by persisting with this action. I certainly hope that those gentlemen opposite will think their attitude again and will prevail upon their Senate colleagues to allow this Budget to go through before their present action wreaks such havoc on this economy; havoc from which it might well never recover. If the cash flow from Commonwealth contracts is cut off a number of very substantial and highly reputable building contractors will be in grave danger of going bankrupt. Our opponents might as well face the consequences of their action, because these guilty men will be held responsible and the Australian community will reap from them a very heavy penalty as the price of such economic and political vandalism. 
One could listen to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  but one could not hope to glean much from what he said. One listened with great intent when he said that he wanted a decent government and did not want a government of dishonesty. Where was he when the former Government hed and lied? Where was he when the former Government, which he now supports, lied to the Australian people on Vietnam? He owes allegiance to that Government although he was not part of it. He was one who supported the concept and still supports the concept that it was the right of the then Government, based on a he, to conscript our youth to die in the jungles of Asia, and that Government would do it again. 
-The honourable member for Riverina laughs. He regards this matter as being funny. He is undoubtedly proud of the fact that the previous government lied, yet these are people who say they uphold the tenets of decency. Their hands are dirty. They are in no position to talk about decency. They are people who have no concept of decency or ethical standards. The honourable member for Wentworth said: 'No man on this side will let us down'. That shows a reckless disregard for Australia, for the Australian economy and for the Australian people. All that honourable members opposite are concerned about is a cynical and ruthless snatch at power. It ill behoves those who tear up every constitutional convention and every tenet of political and constitutional decency to have the gall, the nerve and the colossal hide to talk about Labor larrikinism Surely if there is any larrikinism in this Parliament it has been shown every day of last week - 
-These people who lied and lied to justify the immoral conscription of Australia's youth now say that they want a government of decency. Where are their standards? They are double standards. But they will not fool the Australian people. The honourable member for Wentworth said that the Government is implanting fear where there is no need for fear. Surely even he could not be serious in that proposition. Does he seriously suggest that the contractors who are running out of funds and the workers who are facing dismissal because of the Opposition's wanton economic vandalism have no need to fear? He will see what their reaction is. If he has not seen it already he will see it in the near future. 
The Liberal-National Country Party coalition members are guilty of political gangsterism in the extreme. They are engaged on a course of economic vandalism, and they wash their hands of it They walk away. They tried to get away with it by simply heaping abuse on the Government. They will find that they cannot snatch power in Australia and that the only way to gain election to the Government benches is to wait their turn and to submit themselves at the proper time for election by the Australian people. Their proposition is that the Government should make it easy for them and that the Government should deny those who elected it and should now give the Opposition the opportunity, if it can, to mislead the Australian people. 
I was interested to note that the learned member for Wentworth, a former Solicitor-General, was very careful indeed not to become involved in the legal argument. The most significant thing about his speech is that he left out the basis of constitutional precedent for his argument. He did so because he has not got one. The Constitution simply does not contemplate a double dissolution because of a Budget rejection. He knows it; we all know it. It is about time that those people who talk about honesty show some honesty in their speeches in this Parliament. It is impossible and it is impracticable for the constitutional provisions for a double dissolution to be implemented in terms of a Budget. How could the country wait 3 months while the Senate decided that it would again reject the Budget? How could the country wait while the Parliament was dissolved and an election was held, which would take perhaps 3 months to determine? Does he seriously suggest that the founders of the Australian Constitution intended that there should be a period when the country would go a full period of 6 months- half a year- without there being an appropriation of funds? It is so ludicrous to be stupid in the extreme. The situation was not contemplated. 
At the original Convention the founders of the Australian Constitution did not contemplate that there would be a rejection of a Budget by the 
Senate in this Parliament. I use for the basis of that view the fact that the original Constitutional Convention had before it a specific proposal that the Senate should have power to reject a Budget. It is not in the Constitution. It was deliberately and calculatingly left out of the Australian Constitution because the founders recognised that to include such a provision would be to give a powerful and improper weapon to the House which was not the popular House. 
What is the precedent that is quoted by others -not by the honourable member for Wentworth? It is said that it happened in Victoria. My attention has been drawn to section 56 of the Victorian Constitution Act. That Constitution Act provides that the Legislative Council has the right to reject a money Bill. Like the Australian Senate it has no power to alter but, unlike the Australian Senate, it has the specific power to reject. That power was specifically not included in the Australian Constitution for the Senate. I suppose we can see how clever lawyers and other people twist, weave, turn, dodge and shuffle to try to make things say what they do not say. This afternoon we have seen two eminent lawyers on the other side dart, weave, shift and shuffle in an attempt to make the Australian Constitution say what it does not say. The fact is that the Australian Constitution does not provide for, does not allow and does not specify in any way the right of the Senate to reject a money Bill. All the evidence is in favour of the proposition that it was never intended that the Senate should be able to reject a money Bill. What the Australian public is faced with is that the Australian Constitution and the conventions surrounding it have been kidnapped by the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. What have been held to ransom are the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. That is why the Australian people are turning out in their tens of thousands to voice their opposition and their disapproval of this wanton vandalism which the Opposition is trying to perpetrate on the Australian community. 
Let there be no doubt about who is responsible for the suffering which is about to descend on the Australian public. Honourable members opposite said in their advertisements- paid for undoubtedly by foreign interests- 'We must do it'. Let there be no doubt that in every newspaper in which a full page advertisement appeared the Liberal and National Country parties have taken full responsibility for the action which is to occur. We know that this campaign is very expensive. There used to be a time, whenever Labor suggested social reform, the Liberals would say: 'Where is the money coming from?' Now we can ask where their money is coming from to pay for this campaign. We know where it is coming from. They refused and voted against legislation in this Parliament designed to allow the Australian community to see where the money is coming from. They are the guilty men. They are the men who oppose legislation to require the disclosure of funds. We see the reason why. They said in effect that their donors were ashamed of them just as they are ashamed of the donors of their funds. They refused to disclose their donors because they are financed by foreign owned corporations which cannot wait to get their grubby, avaricious hands on Australia's natural resources. They want to plunder Australia the same as they did when the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in control of this country. 
Prevarication, fabrication, distortion and suppression of truth are no enemies of the LiberalNational Country Party coalition. They are not weapons that honourable members opposite shy away from. Honourable members opposite will say or do anything to try to discredit this Government. Even this afternoon in this Parliament the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a false accusation, an accusation which is stupid, against me. He misquoted a former Minister, a man who is no longer alive, as saying that Australians should not become a nation of little capitalists. He went on, having made that calumny, to attack me, saying that I said: 'We are going to make them a nation of littler capitalists'the Leader of the Opposition did not learn much at Oxford- '6 squares is enough'. He falsely attributed that statement to me. It is a false and malicious statement without any foundation in fact. He might be interested to know that no building authority in Australia will allow the construction of a dwelling smaller than 7 squares. I forgive him for his ignorance, but I would hope that he would at least give me credit to know that much. I never made that statement or anything that resembled it but that presented no difficulty or inhibition to the Liberals of this country. They will falsify, misrepresent, prevaricate and fabricate in order to suit their miserable purposes. 
The Liberals said that under Labor home ownership had fallen from 72% per cent to 68.7 per cent. The figures are right but the period is wrong. Those figures referred to the fall in home ownership between 1966 and 1971. They will say anything and do anything to try to discredit this Government. This Government has been elected twice by the Australian people. This Government was elected in May of last year and more people voted for Labor senators than for  senators of all of the other parties combined. That is a fact that honourable members opposite and this Parliament must face up to. The Liberals do not have a mandate to misuse the Senate. The Liberals, by conniving, by distorting the ballot papers and by arranging for excess numbers of candidates, with no possible hope of and no interest in being elected, were able to get an increase in the informal vote thereby gaining a better position. Then they break every convention to try to manipulate a majority. Let there be no doubt that these are the people who are responsible for any chaos which ensues. 
Australians, if they want leadership, will not turn to the  bikie  grazier. They know his form. He is now entering the valley of death. He will find himself in a dark gully before long and he will find that the assassin's dagger which he wielded so efficiently himself will transfer to other hands. He is a man who destroyed others and he himself will be destroyed, if not by his own party, by the Australian people who will not tolerate vandalism and will not tolerate irresponsibility. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In 1974-75, the advances approved for Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania prior to June 1975 totalled $37.41, $35.44 and $24.22 million respectively. In June, additional amounts of $6.4, $2.0 and $2.0 million respectively were approved for those States on the basis that the amounts would be taken into account in deciding the allocations for 1975-76. During deliberations on the Budget the Government took into account these additional amounts and regarded each of them as an advance against the 1975-76 allocation. For each of these States the amount for 1974-75 was, therefore, deemed to be the total of the. amounts approved before June and the advance allocation was offset against the deemed amount for 1974-75 in arriving at the amount to be advanced in 1975-76. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Income Tax Bill and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr 
Speaker, that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I shall gain full details for the honourable member and let him have them without delay. But I should say to him that not only are allowances for apprentices, students and others in serious doubt, but there is a grave danger that they will be eliminated completely within the next couple of weeks. For example, the Regional Employment Development scheme will not be able to meet its commitments for the month of October; it will be some $8m short in being able to meet its commitments, as a result of the blockage of Supply in the Senate. I suggest that if the honourable gentleman is seriously concerned about this matter he should direct his question more to his colleagues in another place and see what they can do about getting the Supply Bill through- that is, if he is seriously concerned about the plight of people undergoing training and retraining and who are receiving allowances from the Government. It is little use the honourable member standing in this place asking me questions about this matter because my hands are tied. The Minister whom I represent is in no position to make funds available until the honourable member's colleagues take off the strangle hold that they have on the Australian economy. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the PublicWorks Committee Act 1 969- 1 974. it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Canberra Hospital-Proposed extensions to podium, stage I. 
The proposal is for the construction of a 4-level, air conditioned extension which will provide facilities for enlarged casualty, outpatients and day patients departments, consulting suites for use by specialists, a central administration area and new intensive care and coronary care areas. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $8. 17m. The Committee, in recommending the construction of these works, has concluded that there is a need to extend the podium of the Canberra Hospital, that the proposed facilities are necessary and should be provided, that consideration should be given to relocation of the mortuary and providing a small child care facility adjacent to the casualty and outpatients waiting area and that the site selected is suitable. 
The Department of Housing and Construction presently is amending the design of the podium extensions with special regard to re-arrangement of the lower ground floor according to the recommendations of the Public Works Committee. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided me with the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) I am informed that detailed information on breaches of the National Service Act was provided by the then Minister of Labour and National Service in a reply to a question by  Mr C.  R. Cameron (Question No. 2666,  Hansard,  20 April 1 97 1 ). I also refer the honourable member in particular to part 3 of the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2243 which appeared in  Hansard  on 13.5.74 (page 2198). 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My Department has not maintained statistics of the Scheme in relation to Electoral Divisions although it has, in relation to some specific requests, extracted and provided this information. To provide the information sought for each Electoral Division in Australia, however, would require a considerable amount of time and work to be undertaken within the Department and I am reluctant to ask that this be done. I would add that it was never the intention of the Scheme to approve projects by Electoral Division, although it was the practice to advise all Members of the House of Representatives of projects which had been put forward in local government areas which fell, wholly or partly, within their electorates and to seek their comments on them. 
My Department has been able to compile figures which show that, since the inception of the Scheme on 10 September, 1974, the number of projects approved has been 8191 and the amount of funds approved for payment under the Scheme at 1 6 October, 1 975, was $ 1 89,78 1 ,549. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a proposed multi-storey ward block, Repatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes, Queensland. 
The proposal provides for the construction of a six storey multi-ward block designed to accommodate the requirements of 288 beds, kitchen and dining facilities, library, duty medical officers' common rooms, convention room, staff change and amenities rooms, storage rooms and plant room. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $ 12.3m. 
The Committee, in recommending the construction of this work, has concluded that there is a need for a new ward block at the Repatriation General Hospital Greenslopes to replace outmoded and substandard ward accommodation and associated facilities and that the new ward block should be located on the site presently occupied by 11 timber buildings. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Many builders, and construction companies particularly, are expressing their serious concern at the wanton vandalism being exercised or threatened to be exercised by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition. Even this morning there was a report from the Director of the New South Wales Branch of the Master Builders Association expressing concern about the serious effects that will flow to the building and construction industry if this Budget is not approved and approved quickly. The facts are beyond dispute. The total amount of investment expected in the housing and construction industry this year is $9,500m. Of that, $4,500m will be financed by government contracts and goverment work in one form or another. The amount at risk in the Budget is $ 1, 050m. 
-The honourable member for Curtin says that it is rubbish, which illustrates the depth of the ignorance which is permeating the Opposition. It is at least a ray of hope that members of the Opposition do not understand what they are doing- hopefully that is the position- because if they look at the facts and look at what effect their action will have they will see that what they are doing is kicking the life out of an industry when it is down. That is what they are doing and that is what they have to face up to. 
The building and construction industry has gone through a severe recession. It is now showing signs of coming out of the ressession If $ 1,000m worth of investment is cut off or unreasonably deferred or delayed it will have not only a very serious effect on this industry but also a secondary and snowballing effect through the economy generally. For example, this $ 1,050m represents a little over 10 per cent of the total investment to be made in the building and construction industry this year. If this investment is cut off it will mean inevitably the retrenchment, the dismissal of between 50 000 and 60 000 construction workers. It will have at least the same effect on those who supply the industry; for example, those engaged in the supply of bricks, timber, steel, glass and the other materials used, those engaged in the transport industry in carrying those goods to building sites, and those engaged in furnishings and other woodwork used to fit out those buildings. Already delayed are contracts worth $7.693m. That includes only those works which are individually worth more than $100,000. Some honourable members may be interested to note that it also includes the amounts for contracts worth $2m which were to be let in the Northern Territory. 
The short answer is that there are disastrous effects. Chaos is facing the building industry. It is all very well for a rich farmer from Victoria to laugh and joke about the plight of the building industry. He has no concern, but he might have some concern shortly when he finds his bull being held up on his farm rather than being shipped through the Victorian meat works. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3110 which appeared in Hansard on 1 October 1975, page 1598. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Under the Home Savings Grant Scheme, nonrepayable grants of up to $750 are made to young married couples, and to young widowed or divorced persons with dependent children, who have met the conditions of the Scheme, to assist them in the acquisition of their first matrimonial homes; 
Under the 1973-1974 Housing Agreement, 
repayable advances are made to the States' Home Builders' Accounts for on-lending through terminating building societies, or an approved State lending authority in some States, to means-tested prospective home owners; 
subject to the approval of the Minister, part of the advances made available to State housing authorities under the Housing Agreement may be used to provide bridging finance to local authorities or institutions for community amenities that are not the responsibility of the housing authority. 
Financial assistance by way of grants-in-aid have been provided to two organisations whose activities relate to my portfolio. 
(a) Information on the Home Savings Grant 
Scheme is available from the explanatory pamphlet 'A Gram for Your Home which may be obtained on request from banks, building societies and offices of the Department. 
(i) Information on Home Builders' Account loans is available from the Registrar of Cooperative Societies or equivalent authority in each State; 
Information on bridging finance for community amenities is available from the booklet 'Australian Government Assistance to local government projects' which may be obtained from the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
1 refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to question No. 2691 in Hansard of 21 August 1975 (page 468). 
-Section 45 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act does have provision for secret ballots for the settlement of industrial disputes. The provision is limited to the settlement of industrial disputes as defined by that Act. But secret ballots in those situations may be ordered by a presidential member of the Arbitration Commission or by a Full Bench. Previous to 195 1, any member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Court, as it then was, had the power to order a secret ballot; but that was limited in 195 1 by a Liberal-Country Party government. The same provision was re-enacted in 1972, thereby limiting the right to order a secret ballot to a presidential member or a Full Bench. There was a ballot ordered in 1962-1 think it was during the storemen and packers' strike- which was not proceeded with because the dispute was settled. I think the last one was in 1945- if I remember correctly it was during a tramways dispute- and it was resolved to continue the strike. 
At this stage it may be pertinent to refer to another strike which threatens to have far graver consequences than any industrial dispute in living memory. That is the strike by the Senate, which refuses to carry out its functions and pass the Appropriation Bill or even deal with it. That strike will have far-reaching repercussions. It could throw finance into chaos and could have serious repercussions for the housing and construction industry. 
What an excellent suggestion from the honourable member for Kooyong. He again is on an excursion into the industrial relations field. The last time he went there he said that unions were not made up of one big red blob. Of course, under the careful vigilance of the honourable member for Mackellar, we would not find too many Reds in the Liberal Party but we would not have to look too far to find the one big blob. The honourable member has come in again today to say: 'Let us have a secret ballot'. My suggestion is that, if the Liberals are so keen in advocating their secret ballots to settle disputes, perhaps the new compromise, a further compromise, which seems to be in favour with the Opposition these days, might be for the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister to use their influence to have this strike settled by a secret ballot and order, or agree to, the holding of a secret ballot of the senators on the Appropriation Bill. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Prior to the Government's directive of 10 September 1974, relating to the application of the Code of General Principles on Occupational Safety and Health in Australian Government Employment, there was no requirement for Australian Government departments or agencies to record and report their accident experience. 
Nevertheless, quite a number of undertakings have participated in a voluntary reporting scheme for many years, and have forwarded annual returns to the Department of Labor and Immigration for consolidation. The numbers of undertakings participating in the scheme, and the incidence of injuries per 1000 persons employed, over the past 10 years for which figures are available, are shown in the following table. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives, noting the Report of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament presented to both Houses on 30 September 197S and accepting the recommendations made by the Joint Committee, resolves as follows: 
I am not reading a speech. 
I am not. 
I move: 
That the resolution of the House of Representatives of 30 July 1974, referring the construction of the proposed Australian Post Office Administrative Centre, Penh, to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, be rescinded. 
The original motion to refer the proposal to the Committee was put to the House prior to the formation of the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The 2 commissions have conducted a detailed reassessment of their separate office accommodation requirements in Perth which indicates that the proposed administration centre could not satisfactorily cater for their differing requirements. The Australian Postal Commission will use the Perth General Post Office and the adjoining Commonwealth property known as the Central Hotel to meet its accommodation needs after 1980. The Australian Telecommunications Commission will use the existing accommodation pending development of a separate new office accommodation proposal. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister representing the Minister for the Media on 4 December 1974 (Hansard, page 4590). 
I am not aware of any specific undertaking given by the Government or by the Minister for Labor and Immigration to State governments or to anybody else in respect of this matter. I am aware that there has been some discussion about the advisability of such legislation being introduced and the matter has been subject to close examination. I am not aware whether the Minister proposes to introduce that legislation or, if he does propose to do so, when he proposes to introduce it. I think it can be safely said, however, that the cause of apprehension which existed at the time has passed. In other words, there was some suggestion with justification that sweetheart agreements were being made and that employers were prepared willingly to enter into agreements with trade unions on the basis that it is better to increase the cost of the product than to take the consequences of an industrial dispute. I would think that the honourable member might give some credit to this Government for having eliminated that practice almost completely. Through action taken at a Government level and action taken through the Prices Justification Tribunal that practice has been blotted out. So the position now is that the wage fixation system which the Opposition opposed- I can understand its frustration and concern- namely, wage indexation, is working fantastically well. 
I am sure the Opposition will be pleased to know that previous estimates of the level of increase in average weekly earnings have proved so far to be wrong and that the likely increase in average weekly earnings will be significantly less than was anticipated. My friend the honourable member for Wide Bay is trying to make an intelligent interjection. He should keep trying; it was not a bad effort. The fact is that wage escalation in this country has slowed down remarkably. Whether the Opposition likes it or not, trade unions have shown a remarkably responsible approach in recent months subsequent to the appeal by the Prime Minister and the actions taken by this Government. I think those who want to make union bashing more selective ought at least to give some credit to the fact that in this country at this time of economic crisis trade unions have adopted a far more responsible approach as a result of the exhortations of this Government than has been evident at any time I can remember since the war. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-74 to permit the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to refund to the Fremantle Port Authority amounts equal to such parts of the stevedoring industry charge as the Authority considers appropriate for the purposes of meeting the long service leave and pension entitlements of a waterside worker in respect of persons who, prior to their registration as waterside workers, were employed as crane drivers by the Fremantle Port Authority. Approximately 30 Waterside Workers Federation members are currently employed by the Fremantle Port Authority as crane drivers. While they are members of the Federation they are in the unusual position of not being registered waterside workers. The conditions of their employment have been the subject of direct agreement between the Fremantle Port Authority and the Waterside Workers Federation. As employees of a Western Australian Government statutory authority, the men enjoy long service leave and pension benefits which are more generous than those to which registered waterside workers are entitled under existing stevedoring legislation. 
The Waterside Workers Federation has long sought the registration as waterside workers of these members without loss to them of their separate long service leave and pension entitlements. In 1973 the Port Authority and the Federation agreed in principle on an arrangement which provided that crane drivers would become registered waterside workers and retain their separate long service leave and pension entitlements. This arrangement was to be limited to those 30 or so waterside workers who were employed as crane drivers at the time of registration. Future crane drivers are to be subject to the normal conditions of employment. 
This amendment is therefore necessary in order that the long service leave and pension components of the stevedoring industry charge in respect of the men be reimbursed to the Port Authority, the Port Authority already making provision for them. (  Quorum formed) 
It should be noted that the amounts to be refunded are not equal to those privately being set aside by the Port Authority for its crane drivers but are equal to the charge ordinarily set aside for long service leave and pension entitlements for waterside workers generally and which the Port Authority would have paid had it not been making separate provision. 
The Bill seeks to create a new section 7c of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act which would give effect to the refunding arrangements outlined herein. The Act already provides for certain refunding arrangements in other restricted circumstances in respect of 'special agreements'. 
The moneys to be refunded would be from amounts paid to the Authority under section 46 of the Stevedoring Industry Act. These moneys are synonymous with the stevedoring industry charge as section 46 of this Act provides that amounts paid into Consolidated Revenue under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act be fully appropriated to the Authority. 
The components of the charge involved in these refunding arrangements are variable and cannot be expressed in absolute or percentage terms because it is necessary for the Authority, from time to time, to adjust the proportions of the overall charge which are to be allocated to long service leave and pension entitlements for waterside workers. The Bill has been sought by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, the Fremantle Port Authority and the Waterside Workers Federation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) and 2) It has been assumed that the Right Honourable Member's use of the term 'grants' relates to financial assistance under a continuing program which can involve the exercise of a degree of judgment in determining whether it is provided. It has also been assumed that he intends to exclude financial assistance which constitutes a benefit, entitlement to which is virtually automatic, provided that prescribed conditions governing the eligibility of a person or group are satisfied (eg, unemployment benefit, livingawayfromhome allowance for an apprentice, and financial assistance to an employer in respect of the employment of apprentices). 
On this basis programs coming within the scope of the question are: 
the Regional Employment Development Scheme (REDS); 
special assistance aspects of the National Employment and Training System (NEAT); and 
those aspects of the Trade Union Training Program which have involved the making of grants to assist in maintaining certain trade union training activities. 
3 ) The purpose of these programs have been summarised below. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Shortly after the Government introduced the Regional Employment Development Scheme it decided that it would provide additional funds to approved sponsors to meet increased costs of wages where these flowed from increases in award rates and it did make provision to meet reasonable increases in costs of materials during the progress of projects. 
It would involve a considerable amount of work in my Department to ascertain how many organisations have lodged claims for increased costs which have not been approved for payment, and I am reluctant to ask for this to be done. 
The Ministers administering the Scheme decided on 10 September last that no further cost escalation would be funded on projects, other than in the most exceptional circumstances. This decision was taken to ensure that the $135m provided in the Budget for the Scheme in 1975-76 would be used to enable all projects on which work had already commenced to be continued within the approved financial allocation, to permit projects previously approved but not commenced to proceed in areas experiencing most severe unemployment, and to meet legitimate expenditure claims by sponsors of projects which would not be proceeding. 
Claims for expenditure legitimately incurred will be sympathetically considered and, to the extent that funds are available, payments will be made where there are exceptional circumstances. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) The names of the persons appointed to the Arbitration Inspectorate, Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and Australian Industrial Court since 2 December 1972, relevant experience and available information as to positions held in organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are shown in the first, second and third columns of the attached schedule. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Question No. 1557 was answered on 6 November 1975 (see  Hansard of 6  November 1975, pages 2904 and 2905). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information derived from the study will be included in a handbook of Australian Dwelling Design and Construction. The publication is intended to aid all those concerned with the design and construction of homes in Australia. 
Two, an architect and a quantity surveyor. 
) Some of the information required for the study is being provided by State Government Departments and local government authorities. 
No. 
5 ) The cost of the project will represent the salaries of the professional officers included at part 2. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) My Department has not maintained statistics of the Scheme in relation to electoral divisions although it has, in relation to some specific requests, extracted and provided this information. To provide the information sought for each electoral division in Australia, however, would require a considerable amount of time and work to be undertaken within the Department and I am reluctant to ask that this be done. I would add that it was never the intention of the Scheme to approve projects by electoral division, although it was the practice to advise all Members of the House of Representatives of projects which had been put forward in local government areas which fell, wholly or partly, within their electorates and to seek their comments on them. 
My Department has been able to compile figures which show that, since the inception of the Scheme on 10 September, 1974, the number of projects approved has been 8191 and the amount of funds approved for payment under the Scheme at 16 October 1975, was $189,78 1,549. 
and (4) The cost of advising by telegram organisations sponsoring projects under the RED Scheme that their applications were approved is estimated at $14,100 during the period when the practice was commenced on 2 January, 1975, and discontinued on 31 July, 1975. The cost of advising by telegram Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service that applications had been approved is estimated at $14,100 during the period when the practice was commenced on 2 January, 1975, and discontinued on 31 July 1975. Sponsors of applications which were not approved were notified in writing, as were Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
As indicated in ( 1 ) and (2) above, my Department has not maintained statistics of the Scheme in relation to electoral divisions. Providing the information sought for each electoral division in Australia would require a considerable amount of time and work to be undertaken within the Department and I am reluctant to ask that this be done. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The staffing of the Department's Aboriginal Employment Sub-section at the end of September 1975 was as follows: 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service has provided the following information for answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The Public Service Board has advised me as follows: 
The title of the Board's Management Consultancy Division was changed to Management Improvement Division on 21 August 1975. The functions of this Division are to: 
Plan and implement a program of efficiency reviews in association with departments; participate with departments in implementation of recommendations. 
Provide consultancy assistance to departments and agencies in improvement of organisations, systems and procedures. 
Provide a focus point on machinery of government matters within the Board's Office and maintain appropriate records; undertake reviews of administrative functions and study machinery of government generally. 
Promote effective use of departmental internal consultancy services through liaison, dissemination of information on management improvement techniques and systems and training programs; administer the staff suggestions scheme. 
Co-ordinate engagement of, and provide an advisory service to departments and agencies on, the engagement of external management consultancy services. 
Only part of the Division's staff is employed on assignments of a consultancy type in departments. The Division's capacity to undertake such assignments is not large and the Board does not envisage that it will be substantially increased. It is not the practice to undertake consultancy assignments which could more appropriately or effectively be undertaken by the internal resources of departments or by the engagement of commercial management consultants. 
Total annual salary costs for the current staff of the Division at current rates of salary would be $371,841. Estimated travel and subsistence costs for 1973-76 are $33,000. Provision has also been made for expenditure of up to $1,000 on printing. 
On 23 October 1975, 24 officers were located in the Division. 
