 Mr Speaker,  I congratulate you and the  Chairman  of Committees on your elevation to these responsible positions in this House. My presence in this House is the direct result of a consensus of the electors of Eden-Monaro. I would not be here today but for the advice and help of the former honourable member for Eden-Monaro,  Mr Allan  Fraser. To my mind  Mr Fraser  ranks among the finest politicians this country has produced. The manner in which he handed over his electorate responsibilities to me deserves the highest praise. The results of his experience and his advice were freely given, but never pressed.  His  many friends were acquainted with his support for me, but never directed.  His  distinguished contribution to this House and to the electorate of Eden-Monaro covered nearly 50 years of Australian political history. I now take up his task with enthusiasm, and look forward to a rich, humane approach to government in the coming years. 
The work of Allan Fraser and his compatriots has laid the foundation for the programme outlined in the Governor-General's speech. This is a programme of social reform, a drive to reassert the authority of morality over technology - of man * over law - and to correct a society in which humanity has become a casualty to the laws of economics. Of the 4 principal grounds providing a basis for the Government's programme I would like to examine 2: The failure of the existing social and economic structures to meet the needs of modern society, and the need for government to plan for the inevitable change that confronts us in the future. Technical change and economic development alter the framework of our society. Increasing productivity demands a rapid change in our attitudes. New commodities open a new way of life for our people. The essential connection between the changing technology and our life style has been overlooked by previous governments. The result is that our way of living, our future expectations and our very morality have not been able to keep up with the demands of the new technological age. The products of technology have tended to enslave rather than to free the people of this country. 
Change is not needed for its own sake but it must come if human values are to achieve priority over the machine. Freely available motor cars create the need for new laws, a new sense of social responsibility and a new pattern of Government expenditure if lives are not to be wasted on the roads of our country. New technology will affect our morality. Efficient contraceptives are facts of science. They cannot be wished away. They will force on to the community a new morality because in many ways they make the old morality redundant. I am not quite sure whether these contraceptives are the ones geared to metric conversion ' that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  seemed to refer to when he introduced the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill. 
The social security measures outlined in the Governor-General's Speech quite correctly emphasise the urgency of welfare provisions. These measures represent the basic steps in the development of a national welfare policy, freed of discrimination by sex, age or economic condition - a welfare programme which is a real response to our national conscience and which should be a basic condition in any civilised community that has a respect for its own citizens. A national welfare policy should provide a dignified way of life for the minority groups in our community which cannot contribute to the economic processes. Given this national welfare policy, it is essential then to provide a flexibility and a mobility in our labour force which gives our people the maximum opportunity to express themselves and the maximum opportunity for the nation to benefit from their skills and intelligence. 
Proper education and retraining programmes provide a flexibility of labour and ideas which are basic to a creative productivity in our community. Too often education becomes lopsided because the community attaches status to certain qualifications such as university degrees, and underrates others such as trade qualifications. A continuing educational programme, such as has been outlined by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  in moving this motion, will tend to remove these artificial distinctions. The effect of failure in the academic world will be muted if people can rejoin the commercial area and try again for skills and professions later on in life. If our educational system is to give maximum opportunity to our people and provide the proper basis for our productivity it must be flexible. It must allow people to move in and out throughout their lifetime and contribute to the community by re-education. 
Another important aspect developed in the Governor-General's Speech was the initiation of an industrial policy based on the needs of a creative society. In this country the traditional approach to the relationship between management and labour is based on conflict. The assumption that management and labour must always be at war underlies the community concept of industrial relations. It is a destructive concept in which nobody is right and in which antagonism is fueled to preserve the privileges and status of a few. Such an approach develops from the view that our economy is static; that we must take from one to give to another. In fact creative productivity will create more for all. 
In moving from destructive scarcity to creative productivity people must discover that they belong to the same country. They must discover their solidarity and freedom to innovate. Interdependence between the social groups within our community and economic progress go hand in hand. Productivity calls for the integration of different skills and professions. Once again it calls for the opportunity for people who have made their contribution in one vocation to try their hand in another - to receive a new challenge instead of being discarded on to the junk heap of retirement because they happen to have reached a particular age. The first step in this movement lies in closer consultation between all community groups involved in the economic processes rather than the divisive basis which has formed the philosophy of our approach to various economic sectors in our community. 
The people who have made their contribution in one profession should have the opportunity to accept challenges in other areas. Such an opportunity requires a continuing educational process. This is essential if we are to condition technical change to human needs rather than to subjugate man to technology. The potential productivity that can be enjoyed will be unleashed by using the total skills and experience of our community. Emphasis must be placed on our human resources rather than on the material resources of the land. The people of the country and their potential have been neglected. If we husband and protect our human resources we will have maximum scope for innovation. Costly and sterile subsidies can be replaced by the more rational use of our material resources. Subsidies are designed to protect the worker. They are not designed to produce a particular commodity. The subsidy or the tariff is designed to protect an individual group of employment, whether it be farmer or manufacturer. The people matter, the product is incidental. 
Given these conditions and this basis of our economic approach, the stage will then be set to expose our business and industrial activity to the real rigours of competition. Too often private enterprise has been confused with competition. Unrestrained private enterprise has led to the development of monopolies and cartels. Such economic domination has resulted in stagnation and the use of resources to defend an outdated position. In terms of the suffocating effect that this has on innovation, there is little difference between a mature established monopoly and a bureaucracy. Both types of organisation provide a barrier to new ideas. I see from the notice paper that the Opposition is concerned about the qualifications of the staff of Ministers. I believe that under this Government appointment to positions in organisations such as the Australian Wool Corporation will depend on technical qualifications and ideas rather than associations which may have developed over the years with entrenched monopolies and cartels, associations developed in the Establishment and which are based on anything but the requirement to make a contribution in terms of ideas. It is my view that business competition requires a rule maker. Without any rules of the game competition will defeat itself or the community may have to pay the price of inefficiency. The Governor-General's Speech outlines the proposals this Government intends to adopt to control prices and business practices and yet maintain competition. 
Government proposals to develop regional growth centres are long overdue. A healthy Australian society must develop the entire continent and provide balanced, sensible living conditions for the people. Eden-Monaro presents a particularly exciting regional development opportunity. Canberra is a major growth centre and its growth must be integrated with the surrounding area. Cities such as Goulburn, Queanbeyan and Cooma are strong communities and sensible overall planning is required to integrate their development with the explosive growth of Canberra. The milk, vegetables, fish and meat produced in the Eden-Monaro electorate can supply Canberra with its food requirements. Inadequate access roads which take their annual toll of life, uncoordinated sub-division with poorly serviced housing and crowded, polluted beaches may become the legacy of unplanned expansion. Disasters such as these can be replaced by triumph if this Government joins in a partnership with State and local government groups to develop the area around the Australian Capital Territory. The same challenge will develop in future around the new cities planned by this Government. The integration of city and country will become a recurring responsibility for the Commonwealth in the future. 
Nowhere will the changes proposed in the Governor-General's Speech be more significant than in the country. It is time to eliminate yet another division - the division between country and city people. We are members of one nation and it is only by seeing ourselves as Australian that we can improve the value of life throughout the entire continent. Separation of country from city again creates a conflict situation which is so unproductive. It is important to change the image that has developed over recent years of the poor country cousin. A history of shortterm palliatives has developed a caricature of the beggar farmer always coming to Government for a subsidy, drought relief, deficiency payment or compensation to offset some change in the economic tide. We must restore the strong pioneer initiative that has been historically associated with farming in Australia. We need to do this by establishing a firmer economic base for the farming business. 
As a starting point it should be recognised that when Government policy is directed at increasing the standard of living of the whole community the farm business suffers in many respects. If the average wage earner spends more and more on the luxuries which go to make life easier for him he spends a smaller proportion on the necessities of life - food, clothing and housing. These are the products of the farm sector. The end result is that the unit return to the farmer for his produce falls in real terms and in order to offset this decrease in income farmers must increase output from their business. Labour-intensive operations have to be replaced with capital. This creates the demand for specialised credit facilities. Just as we have specialised financial arrangements for the purchase of bousing so we need specialised financial arrangements for the agricultural sector. Many farm projects take time to pay off - sometimes 10 to 15 years after the basic decisions have been made. It is therefore essential that we have credit arrangements for the farming community which are geared to the unique farm business requirements. I believe that if we have such credit arrangements many of the problems of the farm sector will be overcome. 
Another political decision which has to be made in regard to farming is a sociological decision. It might be assumed in some areas that the most efficient way of farming is by using large scale operations, maximising the returns of the large holdings and using sophisticated capital equipment. But, as so often happens, economic efficiency clashes with sociological responsibility. Company farms will tend to deal with capital cities. The country towns and provincial areas will wither away from a lack of business, and the structure of the communities will be overdominated by the largest centres. To have a balanced community and a virile country town business it is essential that we base our farms on the family farm unit. This is not an economic decision. The economic advantages of a family farm group too often revolve around the idea that the sons and daughters of farmers are expected to follow in their parents' footsteps, and they are conscripted to a life that they may not enjoy. It is essential that increased labour mobility reaches the farms of Australia and that the children of farmers are exposed to a range of options in regard to their own future careers. Unless these children have this choice they may be condemned to a life that they do not enjoy, and the country as a whole will forgo the productivity that can flow from contented and properly adjusted workers. 
Many of the issues which are of concern to our community are clouded by a failure to define clearly the political and other responsibilities involved. I take for an example the proper use of our environment. Eden-Monaro contains some of the finest beaches, forests and snow country in Australia - probably the best. Clearly it is a national responsibility to preserve these areas. Unfortunately the debate about preservation of these areas at the moment is being carried on by extremists. Conservationists who apparently allow no involvement by people in the environment are opposed by sectional interests who pay little or no attention to the long-term national impact of their short-term proposals. In most of the debates about the environment the missing element is a definition of the community objective and priorities for a particular area. Defining these matters is a political responsibility. 
In the Kosciusko National Park some may regard water conservation as the main environmental objective. A major proportion of our population depends on this, the largest watershed in Australia. If this is so and if it is decided in the political forum that it is so, we need to ask the ecologists to define the plant associations that will facilitate long-term water conservation in this area. Having determined the appropriate plant associations, it is then necessary to develop proper management to maintain the chosen association. 
No environment is static, no plant association will remain the same on its own, and at any time certain plants will be dominating others. A natural succession will mean that we will lose the association that serves our purpose. Therefore it is essential to manage the environment. We can define 3 areas of responsibility relating to the problem of environmental conservation. Firstly, there is the political responsibility of defining the objectives and priorities for which the area will be used. Secondly, we need research to understand the variables involved. Thirdly, we need the management that will allow us to control these resources in the best interests of the community as a whole. In a wider sense the political responsibility of defining the objectives and priorities has been clouded in the political sphere by too many superficial questions and a tendency to divert attention from the substance of community priorities to the details of management. Instead of focusing political debate on the purpose for which we should use our resources for the community welfare we find people concentrating on the use of resources to satisfy short-term political pressures or concentrating on the details of management, for instance by asking where the money is coming from instead of asking whether the priorities are right. 
I commend the Governor-General's Speech to this House as a speech concerned with the real political issues of our country and outlining the basis on which we can build a new creative productivity from which the whole community will benefit. 
I thank the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for providing me with the backdrop for my speech tonight. But before dealing with him and his shallow analysis of the Australian economy I should like to deal with the position which exists in the Goulburn Abattoir. Last Wednesday, 28th February, the Goulburn Abattoir was informed out of the blue that 3 meat inspectors would be transferred. Eight months ago a killing-line there was stopped and meat inspectors were removed to match the production of the plant. Last Friday the number of inspectors at the abattoir was reduced from 11 to 8. 
They were DPI inspectors. The withdrawal of meat inspectors from an abattoir is a serious move as it means that production must be reduced, staff laid off and contracts may have to be cancelled. Meat inspectors must cover a wide range of goods and deal with a wide range of export conditions. Various countries specify different conditions, and particular blends in terms of the export throughput of the abattoir require different rates of inspection. At the moment, in Goulburn and throughout New South Wales generally - this will lead me later to the remarks made by the honourable member for Gwydir - a strong demand for carcass meat has come from Japan. In order to export carcass meat to Japan, it is necessary to cut glands. Why this is necessary, I do not know. An offer by the industry to have its own staff cut these glands has been rejected and the departmental officers have insisted that they should do this job themselves. Having looked at the position at Goulburn, it is my consideration that the Department of Primary Industry is preoccupied with the American market to an excessive extent. In addition to the veterinary requirements in relation to the inspection of meat, the normal quality control inspection operation in which samples are taken of the product is not followed. Every carcass must be inspected. For all practical purposes, meat inspection is an input in the production process. The relationship between the production decision and the inspection decision determines the output at each meatworks. 
It seems to me that the consultation that exists between the managements of the various meatworks and the Department of Primary Industry leaves a good deal to be desired. I believe that it is absolutely essential that the inspectors who have been removed from the Goulburn abattoir should be returned to that plant if we are to avoid a situation in which staff will be laid off. It is interesting to examine the reasons why this position has arisen at Goulburn. Similar circumstances have manifested themselves throughout New South Wales. This development gives the lie to Country Party calls for devaluation of Australia's currency. The day after the American dollar was devalued by 7 per cent, the price of Australian meat sold to America rose by 10 per cent. The Country Party has been telling us that rural producers will be penalised by the American devaluation. The fact is that prices on the American meat market have increased by 10 per cent. The reason for this increase is clear cut. If members of the Country Party who are seeking to interject will allow me to continue, I will give them a lesson in marketing. 
Abattoirs in New South Wales are supplying one of the largest demands that has ever been experienced in this country for Australian meat for export to Japan. Contrary to what has been suggested, this demand seems to be well established and looks like being a long term demand. Japan is now paying world record prices for Australian meat. In view of devaluation and its alleged effects on primary producers, honourable members may well ask why this is happening. The real position - Country Party members avoided mentioning this when analysing the situation - is that relationships between various currencies do not matter. What matters is our selling strength and our bargaining strength in any market. The fact is that the bargaining strength of nearly every agricultural industry in Australia is so great that world prices must be paid for our products even by the United States of America. It is a load of rubbish to say that prices paid for goods exported to America will fall because the American currency has been realigned. The fact is that present wool prices, wheat prices and meat prices prove what I am saying. 
As the honourable member for Wimmera knows, wheat prices are contract prices. The low wheat prices which growers are receiving at present are a legacy of the administration of the former Government. To-day Australia's agricultural industries enjoy one of the strongest bargaining positions that they have ever attained. The decision on the Australian currency taken by the present Labor Government has been demonstrated to be so timely as to be an embarrassment to the Opposition. The Opposition's argument would hold water if the bargaining position of our agricultural sector was weak when the revaluation decision was made. The contrary is true. The bargaining position of our rural industries was strong. I point out that sugar growers in Queensland are still waiting for payment of the money that was promised to them by the previous Government as compensation following the earlier devaluation decision by the British Government. 
I return to the question of meat inspections. We seem to be confronted with an incredibly strong demand for meat, due partly perhaps to the fact that the world respects our trading position and the wisdom of our economic decisions. But when one examines the problem that exists among the meat inspection services in this country one is struck by the fact that there are 2 meat inspection services, the State inspection service and the Commonwealth inspection service. This position is ludicrous because these 2 inspection services have separate facilities built into every abattoir in which they operate. The Goulburn abattoir has toilets for the State meat inspectors and toilets for the Commonwealth meat inspectors. I am not sure what the position is with women's and men's toilets. 
Surely this situation requires examination. In South Australia the Commonwealth carries out the functions of both the State and Commonwealth meat inspectors. In New South Wales the current thinking is that it may be best to hand over the responsibilities of the Commonwealth inspection service to the State inspection service I have an open mind on the matter so long as the job is done properly and the flow of meat inspection services does not inhibit our potential to export meat or even to slaughter meat for human consumption. If this can be achieved I will be satisfied. But it seems ludicrous to have 2 services operating, thus duplicating costs and creating the sort of difficulties we have had at the Goulburn abattoir and at other abattoirs in New South Wales. I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for your patience but the same could not be said of my opponents on my right. 
The Bill before the House seeks to increase the contingent liability of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation by $250m. At 31st December 1972 the Corporation held 1,090 policies which had a contingent liability of $415m, which was very close to the limit allowed under the provisions of the Act. It is clear that the liability needed to be extended to increase the business of the Corporation. The Corporation was established 'n 1956 as a non-profit making body to cover the risks associated with overseas trade. Throughout its life it has increased its services to the exporter. Now it provides insurance for investment overseas. Thirty-three joint policies have been issued under this activity of the Corporation. They have a liability of Sl im. Buyer credit, which was introduced in 197.1-72, has attracted a great deal of support. Forty-five firms have taken up policies which range from 2 to 10 years in duration. This has enabled Australian manufacturers to enter the capital market overseas. There is a growing market for Australian products overseas. Recently 104 firms applied to take part in a trade fair which was to be held in Hong 
Kong between 12th and 17th March. Our manufactured exports overseas have increased from S80.4m in 1967-68 to $ 103.4m in 1971- 72. 
No doubt the interdepartmental committee which is considering the advisability of establishing an export bank will be looking very closely at the Corporation. The Corporation is now geared to examine the factors which contribute to risk associated with the sale of capital goods on long term credit. It arranges credit, and it has an information service which gives an extremely good dossier on overseas buyers and their credit worthiness. It might be argued that the export bank could be based on the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. I would like to develop for a few moments the general principle underlying the Corporation because I believe that government risk-taking organisations could play a larger role in our total economy than they do. The Corporation is a purely business operation. No subsidy is involved in this operation. There is a sensible economic evaluation of risk, and the Corporation has the resources to cover those risks. In many other areas of our economic activity Australia is confronted with the same risk problem - either the risk is too great for private enterprise to take or it involves capital larger than any organisation in Australia could muster. 
A government risk-taking organisation which followed the principles of the Corporation could, I believe, be developed to insulate primary producers from movements in prices on world markets and could be used also to develop a drought relief organisation. The principle of basing risk taking on proper economic considerations, I believe, deserves a great deal of consideration to insulate these other areas of our economy, some of which have caused great difficulty over the years. I commend the Government for supporting this particular activity, which is indeed properly based and does not demand from the Government any particular subsidy to insulate our exporters from risks. Without the organisation there can be no doubt that our export trade would not have grown as securely as it has since 1967. 
I would like to take, too, the basis on which our export market is developing. We have heard from the Opposition that the Government's action in regard to the appreciation of the dollar and its subsequent failure to follow the Amerian dollar down have placed the manufacturing industries of Australia and exporters in general on a very poor basis. Of course, this is true in relation to our conventional outlets. It is true in relation to America and appears to be true now in relation to Britain, although the future may hold a different answer there. It is not true in relation to Japan or now, since this morning, in relation to Germany. The fact is that the whole monetary situation of the world is in the melting pot. One of the major facts which has emerged from recent considerations and could have been anticipated from at least 1971 when the Americans devalued their dollar for the first time is that the American dollar is now not the powerful influence in world business that it has been in the past. The hard reality of this position is that American influence is not as dominant as it was in the past, and we would be very unwise indeed to remain completely chained to the American situation because we could, for example, have found ourselves now in a situation where we would have to follow the European Common Market countries into a float, and then we would know whether or not the present government action had been correct. I sincerely hope that the solidity of our currency can be maintained, and I believe it will be because of government action, and it will not be necessary to float our currency. If it is, the world will pass its judgment. In economic terms the world has already passed its judgment. 
This country was forced to take the action that it took on 23rd December in which we appreciated the dollar. It was forced to take this action in pure economic terms, as any economist could read from the level of our overseas reserves. More importantly, I believe, we were forced to take this because of American pressure. I find it very difficult to accept the contradiction inherent in the Opposition's argument. On the one hand this Government is being condemned because of its refusal, the Opposition says, to go along with American directions in foreign affairs, and on the other hand this Government is being condemned by the Opposition for taking the very action that the Americans would wish us to take in regard to our currency. If any honourable members have any doubt about this we only have to examine statements that have been recently made by Secretary Sholtz, of the United States Treasury in which he has announced that the Administration would soon have to introduce  a  comprehensive 
Trade Bill that would renew the President's authority to raise or lower tariffs in relation to trade concessions. This Bill of course has been supported by the  President.  The Americans have also threatened to use retaliation against countries such as ours with high overseas reserves, and these retaliations would involve capital controls, trade restrictions such as quotas, and tariffs. 
There can be no doubt that unless the Australian Government had taken the sort of action that it has taken we would have found that our export outlets in the American market would have been restricted by the use of these controls. More importantly, the Americans are now contemplating relaxing the ban on the flow of overseas currency. They presently have a tax of 11.25 per cent on United States purchases of foreign securities. It is intended to eliminate that tax. They presently have restrictions on United States bank loans to foreigners and it is intended to relax that restriction. There are limits on the amount of American money that firms can send out to build factories overseas. They intend to relax those limits. In other words, unless Australia held a very strong position in terms of its currency in relation to America's we would have found various controls which have insulated us in the past from selling out to this country being relaxed and it becoming extremely difficult, apart from the introduction of very stringent controls in this country, for us to have maintained any sort of jurisdiction over our own currency. 
So I believe that the export climate is very favourable in the medium to long term for our Australian industries. In the field of primary produce the market prices tell their own story. Insofar as the export of manufactured commodities is concerned, it would seem to me that it is necessary for Australian manufacturers to look for the markets where we have the strongest competitive advantage. This is a world of change, and one of the areas in which change is becoming very, very frequent and very strong is the area in which we sell our produce and products. Clearly at the moment one would look very carefully, as manufacturers are doing, toward Japan. We must take a second look now at the European Common Market and also, of course, we must look very carefully at China and Russia. These are the changes that the currency movements at the moment are indicating as the future for Australia. It is in such a changing situation, full as it is of risk, that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation plays such a dominant and useful role for our exporters. I commend this Bill to the House and hope that the same principle will be considered for other areas of risk in this business community of ours. 
-! speak tonight because I feel it is time that the wool industry in Australia realised that decisions are made in this Parliament in respect of that industry and that the Government will not follow the traditional practice of allow' ng policy decisions to be made outside this place. Within the last few weeks a report produced by the wool industry on the subject of the objective measurement of wool in Australia has been released. 1 do not think many honourable members have seen the report which involved the expenditure of $1.5m of Commonwealth funds. The report was paid for with Commonwealth money, but apparently the Australian Wool Corporation did not consider it necessary to release the report to members of this House. 
In view of the inquiry into wool marketing that is now being conducted by the Australian Wool Corporation, I believe that the Parliament should take a very active role in wresting the initiative away from people whom the Country Party, in its practical way, has left in office to make decisions for the industry over the last 15 years. Their term of office has resulted in one disaster after another. But this seems to be the major qualification that the Country Party looks for in selecting members for organisations such as the Wool Corporation. That Party seems to want people whose only claim to notoriety is that they have been associated with one disaster after another. Apparently the more tragedies that one can be associated with the more likely one is to be selected by the Country Party to lead an organisation within the wool industry. The situation in the wool industry today is that wool prices are determined in a fashion market. The result is that wool growers these days find that their income is subject to violent fluctuations. There are only 2 ways that I can see to remedy this situation. I see from the behaviour of Country Party members opposite that kindergarten is out again. They cannot even take time to show interest in a matter that presumably their supporters have close to their hearts. 
I repeat that the wool industry is subject to violent price fluctuations. These can be moderated in 2 ways. The first is by introducing some insurance into the market system. I believe that, now that we have had the experience of a season of very low wool prices, we should have great confidence in supporting the Australian Wool Corporation to the tune of 2 million bales in a businesslike proposition in which capital is provided for the Corporation to buy wool. This is preferable to adopting a policy of subsidising growers through deficiency payments. Our recent experiences show that if the Corporation had purchased 2 million bales of wool it would now have accumulated a considerable amount of capital from the profits on the resale of that wool. But, more importantly - and this is an area on which the wool industry has not concentrated very seriously in the past - we need to keep our options open right through the pipeline. We need to be able to say to the manufacturer who makes his own choice to produce a product out of alternative fibres that we intend to keep our options open. We have a marketing organisation which will now commission processing and which will ensure that we have wool tops and not just synthetic tops, wool yarn and not just synthetic yarn and that wool products will go across the counters of the retail shops in the world rather than synthetic fibres alone. 
The reason why options have been closed to consumers is that the Corporation has restricted its activities to the greasy wool market. We have not been able to say to the world: Here is the wool product; we are in the business of selling it; we are going to make it if nobody else does'. It is not necessary to acquire capital investment to do this. We can commission the people who have already invested capital to carry out the job. For example, it might be necessary for the Wool Corporation to commission work behind a tariff barrier in order to maintain the competitive position of wool. This is a far more positive approach, I submit, than the ones to which we have been subjected because in this way the actual competitive mechanism can be stimulated and wool can be sold at all points. At the moment we control only the greasy wool end of the pipeline. 
Other changes have taken place which have gone right past the organisation of the industry. I should like to concentrate tonight on one in particular which stems from this report, which the Wool Corporation has failed to distribute to members of this Parliament. That is the radical changes which are taking place in clip preparation and the hand-: ling of wool. Not one attempt has been made to bring the people whose livelihoods will be threatened most into these considerations. I refer to the wool classers and other people employed in the business of marketing wool. Today they are naturally very concerned. I would not be at all surprised if we find a great deal of industrial unrest in this area of primary industry, simply because the Country Party and the Liberal Party have failed to keep these people briefed on the developments which affect their very livelihoods. The whole professional justification of some people will be swept aside by these new technological developments. Yet not one step was taken by the former Government to keep these people informed of these developments. The greatest barrier to technical change in the wool industry will be the legitimate barrier of people whose personal interests have been jeopardised by a lack of consultation. This is the spirit of the industrial relations policy of those who are now in Opposition. Consultation in this area has been vital for so long that the debt that remains now will represent a major barrier to reforming the wool industry. 
Another problem which plagues the wool industry and which needs very close attention is the confusion of functions that exist in the present Corporation. At once this Corporation is empowered to collect cost data from enterprises which compete with commercial enterprises under the jurisdiction of the Corporation. How, for example, can a private enterprise wool testing organisation - presumably, 
Opposition members are wedded to the view that private enterprise is very good - be expected to hand over its costings to the Wool Corporation when the Wool Corporation is also responsible for the commercial operations of the Australian Wool Testing Authority. This would immediately give the Australian Wool Testing Authority a very strong commercial advantage. While ever we have this situation the conflt between the rule-making function of the Corporation and its commercial operation is irresolvable. This should have been recognised by the people who established the Wool Corporation. They were warned about this. They were warned about many other aspects of the Wool Corporation which will come back to plague the wool industry for the many years, until they are changed. 
 I warned them and I was their adviser. I warned those people who established the Corporation. The situation now exists where there is a legacy from the Country Party of people whose justification for being on the Corporation is that they have the right connections. They do not make a contribution to the activity of the Wool Corporation in any positive way. There are one or two notable exceptions to this rule but their voices are very much muted by the overwhelming weight of traditional associations which exist between these people, and the interests they represent. One could spell them out. The dominant role that Dalgety Australia Ltd, has played in the last 4 or 5 years in wool marketing bears close examination. The interests that this company represent go right into the heart of the organisation. The man who was supposed to represent wool manufacturers on the Wool Corporation belonged to a firm which went bankrupt. So much for his management. His position was saved by the Dalgety organisation. So this firm exercised its influence through the Corporation in many ways. 
One could spell out the same sorts of associations with all sorts of companies which have a vested interest in no change taking place in wool marketing. Today the Corporation has to be badgered into realising that, having spent $1.5m of Commonwealth money, it has the responsibility to produce reports and provide them to members of this Parliament. The Corporation has spent Com monwealth money like water in the past without any accountability. It has made decisions which have a fundamental impact on the Australian wool industry. It made those decisions in isolation from this Parliament. I am very pleased to belong to a Government which will see an end to this sort of decision making outside this place. 
My grievance today is directed at the simplification of the effect of revaluation on the economy. I believe that the attempt by the Opposition to over-simplify this position has not only led the electorate into a position where it fails to see the facts but also has deceived its own members, as witnessed by the question asked today by the right honourble member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  which indicated that the right honourable member for Lowe quite clearly thinks that the Australian dollar has appreciated against the Japanese yen. The question he asked makes sense only in that context. The facts are that we have devalued against the Japanese yen, and the right honourble member for Lowe, who claims some expertise in this field, has been beguiled by his own Party's propaganda on the matter. 
Despite expectations that the revaluation of the Australian dollar and the devaluation of the United States dollar would seriously affect the primary agricultural products of this country, we see that prices give the lie to this position. Figures recently collected by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics show, for example, that the average prices for clean wool sold in Australia rose by 24 per cent over the prices paid prior to the Australian revaluation on 23rd December. After the American devaluation prices paid for wool rose by 11 per cent again over those ruling just prior to the revaluation. Prices paid for light bullocks in the Brisbane market rose by SI per 100 lb just after the United States devaluation on 19th February. Lamb and mutton prices in Victoria rose by between lc and 2c per lb after the Australian revaluation, and after the American devaluation mutton prices rose again. Lamb prices suffered a slight decline from record prices that they established at that time but have since recouped this fall and have now reached record levels, as all honourable members know. Prices paid for wheat and sugar are covered by international agreements and both products are enjoying high prices on the world market. In both cases the anticipated supply for the next season suggests that Australian producers will continue to enjoy very high returns for their products. 
Claims that changes in Australian currency have seriously affected returns to primary producers are not supported by the current price relationships in the market place. The factor which has been overlooked by the Opposition has been that in each of these commodities the Australian exporter has enjoyed a very strong bargaining position. In some cases the advantages of this position have been given away by previous agreement, but in the main prices reflect the fact that such countries as America have had to pay world prices if they want the supplied. If they do not pay them, they do not get the goods. This is particularly true for meat, in relation to which the American market in the past has been restricted by quotas which have placed an artificial restraint on the price established in the market for our products. 
The Australian economy had reached a crisis by September of last year in which our overseas reserves had reached an unprecedented $4,500m, compared with the $l,500m normally accepted as adequate to service our import requirements. This high level of reserves attracted criticism from the US Secretary of the Treasury,  Mr Schulz,  in a very thinly veiled threat that the US would use its power to introduce restrictions on exports of meat, wool and products that we export to the US. Had these restrictions been imposed, our primary producers would have been far worse off today than they are now under the present Government's policy of maintaining a sound and viable currency on world markets. Internally, the capital flow from overseas had a major inflationary pressure on our economy. Increasingly, overseas funds were being used to finance high risk enterprises requiring high returns on capital. Much of this money was not going into productive activity or creating employment but was helping to fuel the inflation of land and property prices. The result was a rapid transfer of these assets into foreign ownership. 
Evidence of this can be found in my electorate of Eden-Monaro. A large property near Goulburn recently has been purchased by overseas interests for Sim. The prime purpose is to subdivide this agricultural land into residential areas. Other examples of overseas money financing land speculation can be found abounding in this country. In addition a large volume of money was attracted into Australia because our currency was expected to move up. This expectation was soundly based on the fact that the previous Government, at the insistence of the Australian Country Party, had fixed the Australian exchange rate at the lowest end of the margin agreed by the International Monetary Fund. Had the Australian Government at that time fixed the exchange rate at the level agreed to, and honoured in spirit an agreement it had with the International Monetary Fund, the expectation of revaluation in Australia would have been dampened. 
The facts of the matter are that the position, as inherited by the present Government, was that our journey, by international agreement, could only move in one direction and that was upwards. The important factor, as I mentioned before, influencing world prices for Australian commodities is that the demand for our commodities is expressed by a large number of buyers at the moment. The 2 factors which influenced the price paid in the market are the balance between supply and demand and the number of buyers wishing to purchase the product. If we have a single buyer wishing to purchase a certain supply of commodities from our market, the price it pays, because it has a monopoly position, will be lower than the same price paid by a group of buyers wishing to secure exactly the same level of supply. 
Our primary products at present are in a very competitive position in nearly every market. Criticisms of the actions of this Government in regard to changes in currency have been directed exclusively at the view that we have only one purchaser - the United States of America. These critics have been preoccupied with the dominance that that market has played in the past. They have failed, for their own convenience, to recognise the new dominance of Japan and other markets on the world scene. They have failed to recognise that market conditions have changed for those engaged in agriculture in Australia in that we now have a range of purchasers instead of being dependent, as we were originally, on Britain and subsequently on the United States. The right honourable member for Lowe has also been beguiled by this argument, as witnessed by the question he asked this morning. Of course the Japanese silk industry would give instructions to raise the price of its commodities in Australia. Anybody who examines the relationship between Australian currency and Japanese currency at the moment will recognise that we have devalued in relation to Japan and therefore the prices of Japanese products in Australia must rise. 
I believe it is absolutely essential that the electorate be properly informed on these matters. It is also absolutely essential that we get away from this very narrow-based attack on the electorate's intelligence. It is firmly believed, 1 would suggest, as the premise for the argument presented by the Country Party, in particular, to the electorate that the electorate is foolish and that its intelligence does not extend beyond the sort of statement that is directed immediately at what would appear to be its short term interests. In this case the lie is in every farmer's bank account. The lie to the Country Party's arguments is in every saleyard and wool selling centre around this land. Wherever you look now agricultural prices are at record heights. This is due in no small way to the fact that our economy is strong and our currency is highly respected throughout the world. 
The proposal to create a prices justification tribunal gives rise to the suggested establishment of this committee. The 2 must be seen together. We have heard from the Opposition a case based on the old mentality of a conflict approach. It is not even true to say that we are talking about competition between prices and wages. Wages are a component of prices and if there is a conflict it is within the various components of prices that it should be identified. It is because of the lack of knowledge of the components of prices that we have had to make the judgments of the past and it is in order to develop a body of knowledge to give us an intelligent basis for judgment that this motion has been brought before the House. In elementary terms we might consider that prices consist of the components of wages, rent, overheads and profit. One could perhaps develop different arguments for different terms but the price we pay across the counter takes into consideration those costs. It is in order to identify those costs that the Government has suggested the establishment of this committee. 
The causes of rising prices can be many. They can involve any one of those components. They might be due to a change in productivity, a lack of competition in the market place, or undue rises in any one of the individual components. By attacking the whole proposal today on the basis of a competition between capital and labour the Opposition has over-simplified the position. It has oversimplified it to the point where we cannot take a comprehensive and objective approach to the whole matter. The prices justification groupthat is, the committee and the tribunal - will be collecting facts to analyse the factors influencing price rises. It will be able to identify the source of the price rises. It will be able to identify the type of market system in which those price rises take place. This identification may be enough in itself. It may point to the cause and, having revealed the cause, public action in itself may be enough. The housewife and the shopper, knowing the reasons for the price rises, will be able to discriminate in their shopping procedures in order to avoid the areas of exploitation. 
On the other hand the analysis may point to the need for new legislation which may not necessarily be confined to the restrictive trade practices Acts. Such legislation may be directed towards Increasing the rate of flow of innovation into our community because quite often price rises are due to a restriction not necessarily on prices charged but on ideas that are accepted in the market place. Certain economic concentrations prevent innovators from developing ideas in the market place. It may be that such an examination of price structure will point to the need to encourage innovation in those various areas. It may be that we need to examine very carefully the relative concentration of economic and political powers in various parts of our market system. All these factors will emerge from a close examination of the prices situation in various areas. It is for this reason - the reason of illumination - that the proposal has been put before this Parliament. 
In order to achieve this correctly, it is absolutely essential that the communication between the buying public and the various elements in the market system be kept open. The whole question of communication is one which requires attention not only in this field but also in many fields of endeavour in our social structure. I suggest to honourable members that one way of looking at this is to consider the need for public contact to identify areas of increasing prices and to feed back to the public information that the proposed committee and the subsequent prices tribunal determine. There needs to be a flow of information and the best way to carry out that flow and to have a sensitive contact with the community is through this House and its members. They are the people who must justify this decision to their electorate. This will be yet another area in which the communication between the member and his electors will take place in a very meaningful way. This public contact which is so essential can be achieved by the committee which we now are proposing to establish. 
Having made this contact, it should be recognised that we are not fully qualified research people. We need to be able to discriminate between the issues which are placed before this committee by the public that are identifiable. We need to sift out various proposals put before the committee and pass these on to a research group. It is not so easy to identify a research group in a simple way. We must have a research group which is applied and another more fundamental in its approach to various issues. The field officers and the applied research workers should, 1 believe, be identified fairly closely with the parliamentary committee. More fundamental and basic research needs to be identified with the prices tribunal. The need for legislation and the definition of that legislation can come from the tribunal. 
So, we have this transition in the communications process from members of the public who believe that they are being subjected to undue price rises, through this House and its members. We are able to act as the sounding board for their objections, sift out these objections and classify them, perhaps in terms of the type of market system in which the price rises are taking place. For example, it could be a fully competitive system; it could be a cartel; it could be a monopoly. One could enumerate various market systems. The parliamentary committee will be in a position to classify these price rises in those terms and present the prices justification tribunal with fundamental problems that arise in terms of price justification. 
I believe that this will be a very important committee, not only because of its economic implications but also because of the contact that it will establish with the general public It will bring government closer to the public. It is a sensible project, both technically and politically. It is sensible politically because it removes from the arena of these discussions a great deal of emotion that is generated on the basis of labour versus capital. We on this side of the House do not need to be told that capital requires a return. We do not need to be told that people who invest in property require rent for that property. We do not need to be told that, from time to time, wage demands get out of line. But we on this side as well as on the other side of the House need to know the relative balance between each of these components in prices. To identify prices and wages as a part of the conflict is to over-simplify to the point of being completely wrong. If this argument is to be presented at all, it needs to be identified in terms of the return on capital - if you like, profit - versus wages, both pf them being a component of price. 
The issue of price control has been examined by various groups and various parliaments. This Government has acknowledged the restrictions that must be placed on the control of prices. It is quite clear that restrictions on price control must exist and that is why we emphasise the concept of price justification. To talk of price control is to miss the point that we have presented for the consideration of the House, namely, the concept of price justification. Price control requires a very large bureaucracy. It is an expensive operation to carry out and, indeed, is an almost meaningless operation in the absence of an understanding of the prices themselves. It is because we realise that it is a meaningless, expensive operation that the concept of price justification is being presented to the House under the proposal to establish this committee. 
I commend the proposal to the House. I believe that the amendments proposed by the Opposition have been covered in the terms of reference of the proposed committee. Item (1) (c) of the motion moved by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is in these terms:  such other matters relating to prices as may be referred to the committee by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
Such a suggestion in the committee's terms of reference obviously will give the committee the necessary scope to consider prices charged by public enterprises. It is also obvious, of course, that the cost or price structure within a public enterprise will be known to the governments controlling that enterprise. The question of access to these costings does not arise. The question of access to private enterprise costings has been the subject of Bills introduced by the Opposition when it was in government. In the Wool Industry Bill the. Australian Wool Commission was given the power to examine and request prices and costs charged by groups which were operating in competition with the public utilities owned and run by the Wool Commission. Presumably, it was not necessary when the now Opposition introduced that Bill to point to the differences between prices charged in the private sector and those charged in the public sector. The power given to the Wool Commission was restricted to the private sector. Members of the Opposition established their own precedent when they were in government and it was unnecessary to move this amendment in the light of the terms of reference which are now before the House. I commend the proposal to the House. 
Most of the discussion on this Bill has been devoted toward electoral ends, lt seems to me that we need to return to examine just why it is we are in this place as individuals. I think members of Parliament have 3 basic functions. Firstly, they have to represent electors in 2 ways, and 1 will come back to this point. Secondly, they have to take part in the determination of policy in this place and thirdly, to examine the actions of the Government and its bureaucracy. As to the policy determining role and the examination of the actions of government, this could be done by people outside the Parliament. They would require special skills, other attributes and experiences. I think that in this sense members of Parliament are accountable to the electorate and in that sense and only in that sense do they differ from people outside with the same skills and mix of experience. 
It is on the first function that I think .we need concentrate. In this function we find justification for the Bill that is before us today. In representing the electors we have 2 separate jobs to do. We have to represent the individual elector who may have been subjected to an error by the bureaucracy or some form of injustice or who may just need some form of advice on what to do and how to go about his problems. In this sense the members we as individuals represent are absolutely vital because it is that specific number which determines the number of telephone calls to be attended to, the letters to be answered and the representations that we have to make. What I believe to be the most serious level of our representation is the need to represent individual people and to try to overcome their problems. It is inevitable that a bureaucracy will make mistakes. It is inevitable that each of us will have to contend with these errors. It is in this respect that 10 per cent is a very wide margin to consider when we compare different electorates. At another level we represent our constituents in the form of submissions which have to be prepared for various interest groups in our electorates. These might be business groups, local council groups or social interest groups. But these submissions require a great deal of work and attention and the number of submissions prepared by a member of Parliament is roughly proportional to the number of people he has in his electorate. Also., of course, the . number of submissions is proportional to the number of interest groups that are represented in the electorate. There is no way on earth in which the number of interest groups in electorates can be equalised. My own electorate of EdenMonaro is divided by a scarp which runs right down its eastern side. There is no way that geographic distinction will not separate the interest groups on the coast from those on the tablelands and also the interest groups of people who live in the country from those who live in the 2 cities of my electorate. So in any electorate there will be a disparate number of interest groups represented. 
This brings me to a point which has been made time and time again in this chamber and which I believe to be the main deficiency in our capacity to perform our task. I believe that members of Parliament should have access to research skills and to people who can prepare the submissions that we are called upon to make. I doubt whether there is any member in this chamber who could actively participate with interest groups that he has to represent in this Parliament in order to prepare their submissions and put their case squarely before the country. We need to have this sort of resource and it has no relationship at all to the number of people we represent. I am speaking of the access to resources which none of us enjoy at the moment. We need research skills and a person on our staff who is capable of marshalling the arguments and representing our constituents in a way which is in their best interests. 
I believe that the Bill before us today concentrates our attention on the reason why we are in this Parliament. First of all we are here to represent individuals and injustices that are perpetrated against those individuals from various sources. In that sense we are strictly related in our functions to the number of people we represent. As I said before, 10 per cent is far too wide a margin in this respect. The age pensioner whose cheque has been delayed for 3 weeks in my view has to get top priority over any profound policy functions that the politician has to perform. These people who have to represent 80,000 people in their electorates just cannot contend with the volume of work that comes through at this level. It is absolutely essential that we equalise that work load in particular. Members of Parliament have other functions to perform in this place in regard to their activities in policy determination and examining the actions of government and the bureaucracy that works for it. With this in mind 1 believe it would be very useful for members to have access to personal research assistance. I know- 
Clause 3 of the Bill refers to community of interests, means of communication and travel, the trend of population changes and all of the factors for which we need to have research assistance. As I was saying, the other functions that a member of Parliament has to discharge in regard to policy and the examination of actions of government also require this sort of personal research assistance. When we look at the sort of representations that we have to make for individuals, I believe it would pay us to bring these cases together and to examine in the aggregate the sort of problems with which one is confronted. In the short time that I have been here I have made 32 representations to the Postmaster-General's Department, 19 to the Department of Repatriation, 44 to the Department of Social Security, 35 to the Department of Education and 14 to the Department of Health, as well as many other representations for individual cases that 
We  have not characterised in these terms. But I put this as an example of  the  type of representation that it is necessary for us to bring into this place. If we examine the breakdown of representations we receive we discover certain pockets of bureaucratic inactivity or other omissions which affect individuals in our electorates. If we had research assistance we would be able  to put these  cases into a systematic form- 
Thank you for your guidance,  Mr Chairman.  The matters contained in clause 3 show that the individual member has to diversify his activities in such a way that the amount of time that he is able to devote to these activities is determined by the number of individuals he has to represent. As I have said, I believe that this is a most important factor in determining the allocation of his time. I am suggesting that the matters contained in clause 3 give rise to the extra work that a member has to do and this work would be covered by the facilities I have mentioned. I believe that this approach to the problem of representation in this Parliament, as portrayed in this clause, is the only way in which a member can effectively discharge his responsibility and perform the functions for which he has been elected to this Parliament. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. During his recent visit to the United States, did any American officials express views on the Australian action in regard to currency exchange rates? If so, what position did they adopt? Would it be true to say that the Australian action complements that taken by the United States authorities? 
1 speak to the proposal to establish a Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory which will examine factors relating to the Australian Capital Territory. I believe that the opportunity that will be given to us to examine the various factors that relate to the development and expansion of the Australian Capital Territory is a very exciting one. This Committee will be able to examine the social factors which generate problems in the physical development of the Territory. I think it is interesting to put things in perspective and to have a look at the change in population that has taken place in Canberra over a very short period. In 20 years since 1950 the population of Canberra has increased from 22,000 to its present level of 154,000. We have seen the growth of a completely new city and the establishment of a reference point for the same sort of growth in other areas throughout the Commonwealth. I believe that because the growth of Canberra has been under some control and under the scrutiny of previous committees on the Australian Capital Territory, it has been possible to avoid many of the problems of growth that have occurred outside the Australian Capital Territory where there are conflicting areas of decision making and also where there are difficulties in resolving the conflicting demands of private and public enterprise. 
In the case of the Australian Capital Territory many of these demands have been disciplined and it has been possible to offer residents of the Australian Capital Territory at very reasonable expense services which are superior to those available outside its boundaries. I think the committee we are now considering will have a new set of problems before it. The growth of the Australian Capital Territory has reached the stage where the city of Canberra is now a reality and where it is recognised as a city and an entity in its own right. We have to be careful that not only does the Commonwealth accept the responsibilities for the problems generated within the city of Canberra but that it also accepts the responsibilities for the problems that the very presence of the city generates around its periphery. 
Previous joint committees on the Australian Capital Territory have issued reports on the milk industry in the Australian Capital Territory, the fruit and vegetable market and employment opportunities in the Australian Capital Territory. In each case these 3 reports represent opportunities for the hinterland around the Australian Capital Territory - opportunities for employment and market opportunities for fruit and vegetables and for milk. So, the contribution made by the ACT to the hinterland could be positive. On the other hand, without proper consideration of future developments by authorities both in the ACT and outside it, problems will be created for the surrounding areas because of the concentration of people that exists in the ACT. They must get in and out and that in itself creates problems for road facilities surrounding Canberra. 
Other problems also will be created, despite the fact that in the future the Joint Committee on the A.C.T. that we are now considering will be more involved in social problems generated within the A.C.T. than perhaps it has been in the past. Despite the fact that the A.C.T. is well equipped to handle social welfare and educational problems and various other areas of social activity, it still is true that difficulties are created in the A.C.T. which are unique to this area. For example, there are difficulties over rent which are created by regulation 97. Difficulties are created because of the high cost of land. The price for a restricted block of land in the one year period from May 1971 to May 1972 rose from $2,680 to $3,263 and for unrestricted blocks of land the price rise was even more spectacular. The average price rose from $3,478 to $7,244. These types of problems have been created in the A.C.T. and result in people moving across the border to find some relief from rent and land prices. In the main, these are people who live in domestic circumstances which do not have the proper margins for emergency situations. In the main, their domestic incomes are low. They moved across the border because they could not afford to pay the rent in the A.C.T. and because in Canberra they were unable to earn enough income to sustain a reasonable standard of living. So, when any social or domestic problems strike their families, they are particularly vulnerable. It seems that a culling influence is going on that aggravates the situation in the areas around the A.C.T. I feel that it is the responsibility of the Joint Committee that we are now discussing to consider the consequences of its actions in these areas in the light of the demonstrations that we already have of these consequences. 
This is an exciting prospect. I do not subscribe to the oft quoted view that what we see in the A.C.T. is wasteful of money and that, because the rest of the country does not have these facilities, they should be denied to the people in the A.C.T. On the contrary, I believe that the A.C.T. represents what could be the lot of every citizen in this country if we were able to bring proper planning into the development of towns and cities and proper consideration to their welfare needs. It is because the Commonwealth Government has been in the position of making decisions in these areas that the facilities in the A.C.T. are as good as they are. Throughout the election campaign, I made no apologies to the electors of Eden-Monaro for the fact that my children enjoyed the facilities of pre-school education in the A.C.T. It was the policy of the Australian Labor Party to provide that same facility for the children in Eden-Monaro. I believe that we need this reference point to show the electors of this country exactly what can be done, given co-operation at all levels. 
The Joint Committee on the A.C.T. which we are discussing has its functions completely restricted to what goes on inside the A.C.T. However, I have illustrated how its decisions can have an immediate bearing on areas surrounding the A.C.T. Of course, they also have a bearing on the country at large. Our capital city should be a showcase to the country and to the people who visit it. I believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that, when we have overseas visitors, whether they come on business or for pleasure, we show them the best that Australia can produce in terms of living conditions. It must impress people who come to Canberra that here at least we can approach them in a businesslike and efficient fashion and provide them with the facilities that are necessary - perhaps everywhere else but inside this place - to carry out business dealings. 1 believe, too, that the Joint Committee on the A.C.T., as it has had in the past, has a special responsibility to ensure that, when the people of Australia visit this capital, they are given proper hospitality and guidance, that our own citizens can understand the functions of government as easily and as comfortably as possible, that they are made familiar with al] the warts and advantages of government in this place and that they have a realistic appreciation of the fundamentals of government. I do not believe that this can be done unless the environment in which they appreciate these things is such that they can relax and concentrate on the matter in hand. 
The Joint Committee has an exciting mandate, in my view, lt must be one of the few groups in Australia with the exciting prospect of considering the physical and social development of a city and with the ability to consider the implications of their decisions on the wider scale. As I have already illustrated, the effects of its decisions on the periphery of the Australian Capital Territory are rather serious. In regard to the wider area of Australia, its decisions are based on the need to show the citizens of this country what government is all about. In the international area, its responsibility is to create an environment in which and the facilities by which we can discharge our business responsibilities efficiently. I commend the Government for its proposal, for the way it has brought this matter before the House and also for the composition of the proposed Committee. I believe that its composition should reflect the opinion of both sides of the House, as it is designed to do, and that the Committee should be one in which all members have the opportunity, directly or indirectly, of participating in this exciting area of decision-making. 
Last Monday the Federated Storemen and Packers Union placed a ban on the export of wool from Victoria and New South Wales. The ban may be extended to Tasmania. An important cause of this dispute is the proposed implementation in wool stores of new wool handling methods which can fundamentally affect the future employment of those working at the stores. This position has been engineered by and has developed over the period of the last Government. Time after time requests were made for a consultation between the people who were developing these techniques and the people employed by the wool marketing industry. Until this Government came to power there was no consultation whatever between authorities such as the Australian Wool Commission, the Australian Wool Board, the 
Federated Storemen and Packers Union and other people employed in the wool market. 
Let us look at the position that has developed in this area. The wages paid to storemen employed in wool stores are currently among the lowest 10 per cent paid to storemen anywhere in Australia. A trucker in a wool store receives the princely sum of $66 a week. How can a man keep a family on $66 a week? A classer receives $73 a week and the last consent award was in 1969  -  the only one for the last 9 years. Prior to 1964 there was a history of consent awards. The result has been that in Adelaide wool stores there is a labour turnover of 300 per cent per annum while in Yennora, the worst, there is a labour turnover of 1,000 per cent per annum - an indictment of industrial relations in the wool marketing industry. If ever we needed a witness to the need for consultation in such situations it is in the wool marketing industry. But instead what do we get? Eight days before election day political appointees were appointed to the Australian Wool Corporation by the Australian Country Party. These political appointees are there to enshrine the vested interests that have been responsible for this serious situation in the industry where technological development has been frustrated for the very good reason that people employed in the industry see their livelihoods jeopardised. There has been no consultation and these people have been regarded as the scum of the earth by the wool brokers who are the people who called the shots while ever the Country Party made the policy decisions in Canberra. As we have heard over the last few days, the Country Party at that time revered the principle that the decision should be made outside this place. The industry told the Country Party what to do. The Country Party was proud of that. The section of the industry that told the previous Government what to do so far as the wool industry is concerned was the only organised group in it - the selling brokers. The National Council of Wool Selling Brokers called the shots right through the period when the Country Party brought down policies for the wool industry. 
If we need a good illustration of the way that this works let us take a look at the hot spot of trouble today. There is a 1,000 per cent labour turnover at Yennora. Why was the store at Yennora built? It was built because Dalgety Australia Ltd had nowhere to go, and Dalgetys held the key in the Australian Wool Board and in the Australian Wool Commission while ever it was giving the Country Party the riding instructions. Dalgetys forced the Yennora situation on to the Government. Let us take a closer look at how this happened.  Mr William  Vines, the Managing Director of Dalgetys, was also the  Chairman  of the Wool Commission. Also on the Wool Commission is  Mr S.  S. Nevile. I name them tonight because the last time 1 raised this point 1 was accused of not being direct.  Mr S.  S. Nevile is a director of Port Phillip Mills Pty Ltd. It went bankrupt two or three years ago and it was bought by Dalgetys.  Mr Nevile  is an employee of Dalgetys. We see the situation that has developed at Yennora. It is a completely uneconomic proposition. The wool that is put into the store cannot even be found. The wool is sold and then it cannot be found to be delivered to the buyers. The labour relations are so bad that there is a 1,000 per cent turnover. And we wonder how this happened. One has only to go back over the history of the way in which decisions were made in the wool industry to realise how it happened. 
It happened because, as we have heard, the Country Party and its Liberal Party associates in this respect are devoted to the principle that they have been propounding in this House for the last three or four days - that policy should be made outside this House, whether it be by Dalgetys or by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. This principle has led us into what is a serious situation for anybody who has the interests of the wool industry at heart. We now see technological developments frustrated. These developments could bring major economies into the industry of the order of $100m a year. These  developments are  frustrated because the labour component has never been involved in the business of developing these techniques. No attempts whatsoever were made under the previous Government to accommodate the adjustments that are necessary so far as wool classers, storemen and all the other people who are employed in this industry are concerned. The fact that no union representative was included on the Woo] Corporation is witness to the callous approach to the problems associated with this situation. I believe that this is one thing that this Government has to look at very closely. 
We need to adjust this situation very quickly. There is no question that the adjustment will cost a lot of money because it is now too late to carry out the gradual transition which could have been achieved if consultations with the trade union movement had taken place three or four years ago. But no, the  Sir William  Gunns and the other people who called the shots and made the wool policy outside this place were not the sort of people to regard the workers in the industry as anything but parts of the machinery that could be dispensed with at any moment. It was this sort of attitude, this confrontation attitude, this callous approach to the people employed in the industry that brought about the present situation. 
There are comments on the side. Let me suck them up,  Mr Speaker.  An honourable member said by way of interjection that the wool growers voted me in by mistake. The wool growers, I might say, are very intelligent. They finally showed *he Country Party that they are no fools and that they will not be strung along as the Country Party has attempted to do by the control it has had in this House. The wool growers are intelligent. They would not be told. They would not be fobbed off by the platitudes of the Country Party. They would not be told that so-and-so was a good thing because it helped Dalgetys. They would not be led along any more into deficiency payments and price averaging plans which were loaded on to that industry by the previous Government. All of these directions came from the selling brokers. The wool growers of this country would not be led on any more. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  is quite right in saying that the wool growers voted me in. That is why I am here. The wool growers of this country refuse to accept directions from outside this House. They refuse to accept that this place should bring down a wool policy which brings profit only to that very small sectional but highly organised group in the political spectrum of the wool industry. The honourable member for Wimmera was quite right; the wool growers did indeed vote me into this House and do not let him forget it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question. Will the Australian delegation to the 
International Wool Textile Organisation conference in May of this year include a technically qualified member of the Australian objective measurement project who is able to explain to this international conference the important findings of that project? Will the Australian delegation include a government representative able to define to this international conference the Australian Government's position in regard to wool? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
What are the objectives of the study being carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on the South Coast of New South Wales. 
When is it expected that the results of the study will become available. 
In which general areas will recommendations be made in the report of the study. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has his attention been drawn to the tent which has been erected on the lawns outside Parliament House and which carries 2 signs, one being Women's Embassy' and the other 'Abortion Law Reform'? Has the Minister received any complaints about the presence of the tent? Is the Minister considering taking any action? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the policy of the Australian Wool Corporation in allocating wool testing work to competing test houses. 
How many bales of wool have been tested for the Corporation and the Wool Commission by (a) the Australian Wool Testing Authority, (b) Wool Testing Services and (c) Auscore during the period 1st June 1972 to 31st March 1973. 
What procedures are adopted in allocating wool testing contracts. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. In view of the high cost involved in providing telephone connections to isolated areas, is the Post Office investigating alternative communication systems for these areas? If so, what progress has been made in developing new technologies in communication? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many airfields in Western Australia are currently served by MacRobertson Miller Airline services using Fokker F28 aircraft? 
How many, of these airfields have gravel surfaces and runways of 100 feet or less in width? 
What jet aircraft other than F28 have clearances to operate from 100 feet wide runways? 
What restrictions normally apply on the operation of aircraft into and out of such airfields? 
Unlike the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  I certainly would never invite the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to be my doctor. I feel quite sure though that if the Minister for Labour happened to succumb to such a suggestion he would have no difficulty in reaching the proper diagnosis, which undoubtedly would be myopia, the inability to concentrate on any but one single issue, one single election slogan at a time. We have heard tonight that inflation rests solely and wholly on one of the many factors which contribute to price rises - wage claims. To demonstrate and emphasise such a narrowly based argument it is necessary to resort to distortions of the facts as they stand. It is true that this Government has been burdened with a Budget deficit running close to $ 1,000m. The components of the deficit are interesting. The Treasury has given them in its publication - the Treasury Information Bulletin. Is the Country Party questioning the honesty of the Treasury? The Treasury stated that $638m of this deficit was due to the previous Government's commitments. An extra $260m of this was due to the panic stricken state of that Government as it exploded into the last stages of its reign and it was necessary, it felt, to try to hold the ship together by pouring into the economy another $260m. So out of $ 1,000m we can attribute $900m to the last Government. So it is necessary to resort to this type of distortion to justify an argument which is so narrowly based that it becomes an election slogan than can be understood by the simplest of Country Party supporters. Of course, there are many causes of inflation. It is interesting to look at Australia's record in regard to productivity. In 1968 the increase in the productivity index was 3.21 per cent. In 1970 it had fallen to 0.8 per cent. All the time there was a steady 2 per cent per annum increase in wages. 
An interesting phenomenon - I suspect that this is one of the areas which the Prices Justification Tribunal will reveal as a major factor in the demand for increased wages - is that marginal tax rates are increasing all the time. The extra dollar that the wage earner gains from the Arbitration Commission is eroded at a greater rate as his income increases. So the taxation schedule, acting as an accelerator on inflation, is a concealed pressure point in this whole process. Also, the flow of money or the availability of funds in this country was increased dramatically during the reign of the previous Government. Assets such as land in particular, not commodities, were sold at phenomenal prices to overseas interests. This was one of the main factors aggravating the flow of overseas capital into this country. Money chasing too few goods' was the slogan we heard from honourable members opposite around 1960 and 1961. Indeed, that also happened under the previous Government in the closing stages of its reign. Huge sums of money were flowing into this country to buy land and other assets which were not offset by commodities produced for people to buy. 
Another area on which the Prices Justification Tribunal will centre its attention is what is happening in this country in the field of technological development. It is interesting to read from a report produced by the Department of Trade and Industry that a survey based on 1,321 enterprises revealed that research and development expenditure by them was $95m. This represented 1 per cent of the total sales of those enterprises. Seventy-five per cent of those enterprises were wholly or mainly Australian owned, but they incurred only 39 per cent of the total expenditure on research and development; whilst 61 per cent of that expenditure was spent by overseas firms. There is other evidence that Australian enterprises are not responding to the possibilities of increased technological development. There are many reasons for this, so diverse and complicated that only the Prices Justification Tribunal will reveal the areas in which this type of restraint is having an effect on inflation in Australia. 
An interesting analysis along these lines, to break down the components of price and identify the pressure points, was published recently in the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economies'. This revealed yet another facet of the sort of information that the Prices Justification Tribunal will reveal. For example, about 4 per cent of the retail price of a woollen suit is the value of the raw materials. On the other hand, something like onequarter of the retail price of knitting wool is the value of the raw material. In other words, the value added to the suit naturally increases the price. The raw material component accounts for a considerably smaller proportion of the retail price in the case of a suit than in the case of knitting wool. Under different economic pressures the price of a suit may rise and the price of knitting wool, for example, may remain stable, depending on where the price pressure occurs. Only after we have made a detailed examination of the components of price will we be in a position to make a sensible decision about where action must be taken to stem this flow. 
Another aspect for the Prices Justification Tribunal to consider will be the actual market mechanism - whether it is a monopoly mechanism, a cartel mechanism or a free competitive situation - that fixes prices. Meat prices will be an interesting study for the Prices Justification Tribunal because I believe from the evidence that is available on the market pricing of meat - there is a lot of evidence available - that meat is a competitively priced commodity. It will be of use to examine these types of markets in order to get a contrast with a monopoly pricing situation. In the case of meat and particularly in the sale of livestock, even at the point where it changes hands from the farmer to the next person in the process - a merchant or a meatworks operator - there are different types of pricing mechanisms which can influence the price paid. For the same total demand on any given day different prices are obtained under the bidding system which is adopted generally in Australia - it is called a progressive bidding system - and under a tender or sealed bidding system. We obtain a different price again if we have a contract arrangement stretching over time. 
So it will be necessary for the Prices Justification Tribunal and its allied body, the Joint Committee on Prices, to examine in detail the pricing process for each commodity; otherwise we will never be able to understand how we can correct the situation. For example, in a cartel arrangement it may be that the pricing arrangements are competitive but there are industry agreements which restrict the services available to the industry. It is no good from the consumer's point of view having new technology if among the people involved in the industry there is an industry agreement which prevents that new technology from being applied. So it could be that, instead of attacking wages and profits or in some way attacking the actual monetary implications of the mechanism, we will have to attack an agreement on the question of services offered to the industry. 
A very good example of this situation is the industry with which I am most familiar - the wool industry. There can be no doubt that the cartel agreements between the wool selling brokers who are members of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers were the reason for the restraints on the introduction of technological developments in that area. All 1 ask from the Country Party, whose members are interjecting, is that it be objective even if it is myopic. 
We have now a situation where technology, which is the main fuel for increases in productivity, in too many areas of Australian industry is subject to restraint for various reasons. The solutions to these problems will at all times be different. It is for that reason that the Bill we are now considering does not define any specific action to be taken in the event of a particular price rise. In one instance it may be action in regard to profits. In another instance it may be action in regard to competition. In yet another instance it may be a recommendation that research and development be carried out to improve the technology, and therefore the productivity, of the particular industry. 
In the area of applied technology in this country we are very deficient. We have a great deal of fundamental research but much of this does not find its way into increasing productivity in our industrial situation. It may well be that, by putting its finger on this sort of problem, the Prices Justification Tribunal will point to a completely unexpected outcome of its deliberations. I would expect this to be true if the whole study is, as this Bill will ensure it is, objective in its approach to the consideration of inflation and price rises. 
We hear from the sidelines that such a thing is completely futile and other comments such as: 'What about supply and demand?' These sorts of comments are typical of the reactions that come from this very slogan orientated approach to the sort of problem we are considering tonight. Supply and demand is, of course, the traditional response. But what does it mean? Supply and demand means that on one side, if demand fluctuates violently in the face of fixed supply, the only thing that can happen is that prices move like a yo-yo. When prices move up and down rapidly we hear squeals from the Country Party. If they are right at bedrock bottom and the price for wool is something like 15c per lb, we hear squeals from the Country Party. That is what happens when we hear talk about supply and demand in this naive and inane fashion. 
We need to look at the mechanism behind supply and demand. We need to know what the market mechanism is in order to avoid these unfortunate fluctuations and their effects both on the consumer and the producer. It is of no use shouting slogans at the industry. We must bring to bear on these market problems an objective approach which will help us to understand the very basis of the price formation process. We now have a very effective mechanism to do just this in the form of the Joint Committee on Prices. That Committee will be receiving inquiries from the public and from various industries and it will direct the attention of this place to those pressure points in our economy which need attention. These can then be considered on a larger and deeper scale by the Prices Justification Tribunal, which is the subject of this Bill. 
This Bill is designed to overcome one of the difficulties which might confront the Tribunal if no limitation is placed on the area of investigation. The Tribunal will investigate only those corporations whose gross turnover exceeds $20m. This will include most areas of activity in this country. It will mean that the Tribunal is not wasting its time on small industry groups or small struggling industries. It will be considering the very large sector of our economy - largely overseas owned - which calls the tune on nearly every pricing arrangement. Therefore, under this sort of restriction the Tribunal is placed in a workable situation. About 380 corporations come within the ambit of its interest and there is complementarity between this group which I am talking about now - the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Joint Committee on Prices - because it is the Joint Committee which will have contact with the public and discuss the issues with the public. It will, as is quite right and proper, establish the priorities for investigation indirectly because that Committee will respond to the pressures which the average man in the street and his wife feel when they shop. I commend this as a very constructive approach to a very real problem. It is a problem which I might point out to this House has not yet been solved in regard to the theoretical approach of overseas economists or domestic economists. It is not a price control measure as is sometimes implied. It is not a distorted and singular approach to one aspect of the economy. It is an attempt to get a basic understanding of our economy which will then help us to prescribe the appropriate solution to the problem of prices. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Is it correct, as reported in this morning's 'Australian', that the proposed teacher assistance will be delayed until 1 July next year? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the functions of the Australian National Committee of the International Wool Textile Organisation. 
Is the Committee formally obliged to report its proceedings and decisions to Parliament or the Australian Wool Corporation. 
Who are the members of the Committee. 
I thank the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  for the nice things he said about me. In this friendly frame of mind I feel I should thank - and I would be most ungracious if I did not take this opportunity to thank - the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  because it may not be known that he brought the power of his realm to bear on Eden-Monaro in the intersts of the Labor Party. Members of this House may be unaware that the honourable member for Wimmera has released a Press statement in Eden-Monaro which has given me the opportunity to point to the evils of Yennora, to this insidious Dalgety-inspired Australian Wool Board nightmare which, of course, is the main thing attacking the only natural wool handling centre in Australia - Goulburn. I am very grateful to the honourable member for Wimmera for giving me this platform to reinforce once again the claims of Goulburn as a decentralised wool handling centre. 
The Bill we now have under consideration sets out the arrangements for financing wool research, wool promotion and the administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council,  Mr Lee  Steere, have criticised the level of wool tax. The current wool tax is exactly the same as that established by the previous Government at the beginning of the 1970-73 triennium. In 1970 the tax was set at 2 per cent of the gross value of all wool shorn. The current tax is the same 2 per cent. During the 1971-72 season, an additional .45 per cent was charged to cover the cost of the cost of the administration of the Australian Wool 
Commission. This was subsequently reduced to .4 per cent, the same as that charge now to be levied under the current Bill. Because wool prices fell to very low levels the 2 per cent tax was reduced to 1 per cent for the 1971-72 and 1972-73 seasons. This reduction was partially offset by an increased government contribution. Uncertainties in the flow of research funds during the period of low prices have created serious difficulties for organisations involved in wool research. This coupled with the need to examine carefully the expenditure, of money on wool promotion is the reason - the stated reason - why the Government has restricted the present arrangements to one year. 
It would appear that the honourable member for Wannon and others, including his grazier supporters such as  Mr Barston  in Victoria, have failed to read the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development CDr Patterson). In this speech it is clearly stated that the Government is examining ways of developing both the research and promotion programs on a longer term basis. The honourable member for Wannon has little regard for the facts. They tend to spoil his image of the devil socialist Government. Contrary to his claim, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  did consult the members of the Australian Wool Industry Conference executive before drafting the present Bill. Industry leaders may find it less embarrassing and more effective if they check the facts with the real Government instead of following the hallucinations of a superseded squire. 
In regard to the method adopted for financing research, it should be pointed out that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other research bodies find the present procedures quite unsatisfactory. Funds dependant on market price movements soon fall out of phase with the requirements of continuing research. For most projects, 3 years is far too short a time. The stages in effective research can be enumerated as the statement of the broad area for research, investment in capital equipment, assembling staff, detailed research planning, generation of data, analysis of that data, publication, and the development of the applications of this research. 
Universities can rarely reach the publication stage in this particular series of research events. Often they can complete only the analysis and sometimes only succeed in completing the data collection phase. The position for universities has been aggravated in the past under the wool industry fund because the Wool Board research committees have displayed very little appreciation or consideration for the problems associated with organising physical research in particular through universities. The current shortage of wool technologists can be traced back to the withdrawal of Wool Board support for training technologists at the University of New South Wales. A 3-year funding period hardly ever allows research groups such as the CSIRO to develop the applied aspects of their work and it is essential, in my view, to extend the funding period to at least 5 years if such applied research is to be undertaken and the final fruits of research are to be gleaned for the industry's benefit. 
On balance it would appear now to be better to fund research on a continuing and assured basis from consolidated revenue and to transfer the tax revenue either into consolidated revenue or into promotion. It is the view of many supporters of the Government that the $29.4m that is proposed to be spent on wool promotion should be subjected to detailed examination. Much has been made of the idea that detailed expenditure statements of the International Wool Secretariat should remain confidential. This claim does not impress me. A similar plea for confidentiality was made for withholding the costs and benefits of Yennora and the price averaging plan. Both projects could not be justified in economic terms and the cloak of secrecy was invoked to cover the extent to which vested interests profited from both these schemes. 
On other occasions such as the reserve price debate, confidentiality was invoked to cover a complete absence of research or objective argument to support aspects of the case made at that time by the Wool Board. In the present case, this Government has the responsibility to ensure that 29. 4m of industry and taxpayers' money is properly spent. There is a great deal of circumstantial evidence that it is not. Most good research workers employed by the IWS fail to publish after they are employed. The main economists in the IWS have displayed a dismal understanding of work carried out in Australia in their economic fields, and it is personally known to me that they cao read. Productive research is outgoing. It requires the stimulus of a regular exchange of ideas via publication and discussion. The lack of this outgoing approach in both theIWS and the ancestors of the present Wool Corporation should be a cause for great concern among research workers. 
The current Bill will provide$1.8m for the administration of the Wool Corporation. This could be a significant year for the Corporation. We await with interest the next wool marketing report in what has now become an endless saga of reports.I note with interest the support offered to the World Corporation by the honourable member for Wannon. Does he really support the concept embodied in Yennora that runs against the logical development of decentralised wool handling, a concept that not only is uneconomic but would eliminate selling centreslike Portland? Objective measurement and sale by sample are pointing directly to decentralised wool handling as the most economic way in which wool can be handled in the new marketing system. Consequently, such a system would enhance a port such as Portland. The honourable member for Wannon supports the Wool Corporation in its centralising policy which is typified by Yennora. Does the honourable member for Wannon and his fellow socialist haters support the policy of the Wool Corporation in directing all of its wool testing business to the Australian Wool Testing Authority at the expense of the other 2 testing houses? This is an area in which competition is absolutely essential if standards of testing are to be maintained. 
Yet, during the last 12 months, the Australian Wool Corporation has sent 28,500 bales out of a total of 31,000 bales to the Australian Wool Testing Authority. None at all went to the new firm Austcare because it may introduce a competitive element into the business and so threaten the livelihood of the Australian Wool Testing Authority. Is it just a coincidence that the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation is also the  Chairman  of the AWTA and that  Mr Neville  is also on both groups? Why does the honourable member for Wannon so strongly support this exclusive Government contract in regard to wool testing and so violently fight a simple equalisation for Trans-Australia Airlines? 
The honourable member for Wannon claims that I am concerned about the report on wool marketing to be produced by the Wool Corporation. He is right. Look at the record. A reserve price scheme recommended by the AWIC was badly researched by the Wool Board and beaten as a consequence at the referendum. The abolition of small lots was justified in what I view as a dishonest research report which freely acknowledged the vested interests of the selling brokers. 
I would like to quote from page 2 of the report on wool marketing presented to the Australian Wool Industry Conference on 31 October 1967. The report states: 
. the Board considered that an increasein the minimum lot size would lead to significant savings in brokers' and buyers' costs. It therefore recommends that one, 2 and 3  bale  lots  be  eliminated. 
At the same time, research conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics clearly demonstrated that the abolition of small lots would cost growers more than it saved brokers and buyers. Yet this became the main plank in the Wool Board's subsequent marketing policy. These developments led to the present price averaging plan in which the Government pays a subsidy to offset selling brokers costs. The Corporation has had a major problem in trying to rid itself of this inspired marketing idea. A pattern has developed. The Wool Board and the Wool Commission -the same men, different names - constantly have failed to deliver credible posicies.It became necessary for the previous Government to set up crash committees to save face -the Crawford Committee, the Objective Measurement Committee and the Randall Committee -each as a consequence of the failure of the Wool Corporation or the Wool Board or the Wool Commission to deliver the goods. 
This is now our Government; it is the Opposition's Corporation. Is it any wonder that I am afraid the report that emerges from this Corporation will be inept. I will be the first to praise the Corporation if that report is soundly based, on sound research principles. What makes it even worse for this Government is that both  Sir John  Crawford and  Sir Richard  Randall, who have been able to salvage something in the past, are now busy doing other things. In my view wool marketing, which will be the great issue for the Wool Corporation in the next few months, needs only one objective, and that is to sell wool at the best possible price for the grower. 
In considering the factors involved in developing an efficient wool marketing system, the Wool Corporation would need to examine the scope for developing new marketing techniques, the supervision of standards, the price formation mechanism, price equalisation, new handling procedures and the level of processing which it is prepared to be involved in. I believe it is vital to separate the functions of research, supervision of standards and marketing. I hope the new scheme incorporates this separation of functions. Research in wool marketing requires a completely different environment from that required to operate a commercial system. Research must be carried out in an environment in which innovation blossoms. To carry out a systematic marketing program it is necessary that all members of the staff follow a certain pre-defined set of laws and rules about the practices adopted by the organisation. These 2 functions are contradictory. On the one hand the research worker needs freedom to change his mind and on the other hand, in order to run a bureaucracy or an efficient commercial organisation, it is necessary to have rules which all members of that organisation understand and respect. 
There needs to be continuity of practice on the one hand and discontinuity of practice on the other. To put these 2 together, as has been done in the past, in the Wool Corporation is to make a grave error. So, the research function and the commercial functions of this new marketing body should be separated in the Act. It is also clear, of course, that the rule making function of any marketing organisation needs also to be separated from its commercial operations. How can an organisation which has a vested interest in the outcome of the rules make the rules for the whole industry? Therefore, I believe it is necessary to separate out from the new marketing organisation these 3 separate functions of research, rule making and the commercial operation in the market. In addition, I believe it is important that the Wool Corporation should act as a commercial marketing organisation and that it should not adopt the practice that has been adopted in the past of going overseas for advice alone and functioning only as a greasy wool marketing operation. It is in the interests of Australia that the new wool marketing body should market at all levels in the conversion system - greasy wool, tops, yarn, fabric and the employment of designers to ensure that we have some influence on the total world demand for wool. 
I believe that it is absolutely essential that the new wool marketing organisation should be organised on a vertical basis in economic terms rather than a purely horizontal basis which deals exclusively in the marketing of greasy wool. Of course, the development of objective measurement and sale by description should be encouraged. It is my firm belief that if these developments are encouraged we will be leading towards a decentralised wool handling system in Australia in which wool is handled very close to the point of production and sold by sample. Probably computer bidding will take place at points around the world. It should also be clear now to most people who have studied the detail of the new technical developments in wool marketing that we are on the threshold of selling wool by description alone, which will give us more freedom in regard to the handling and transport of wool. But in order to realise this freedom it is essential that the price formation mechanism be changed from the present progressive bidding system to sealed bidding which allows impersonal bidding on a computer. 
Sealed bidding, coupled with sale by description alone, will give the wool market of Australia a completely different complexion. The role that containers have played in the past will be shown to be very restrictive in this new marketing operation. I believe it is important that the wool industry and this Government face up to a potential point of conflict in the transfer of wool from the grower to the overseas consumer. There are many aspects which I believe ought to be incorporated in the new wool marketing plan. In particular, I believe it is important to separate the marketing function and the insurance function. We have often had a great deal of confusion in the past because we have confused the role that, for example, a floor price and a flexible reserve price played in the market with the price formation function. In fact, these are insurance devices put into the market in order to equalise the flow of income to growers. The floor price and the flexible reserve price were carefully examined and set out in the Crawford Committee's report which formed the basis for the Wool Commission. The use of both of these devices coupled together will allow the new wool marketing organsation to bring into the market an element of insurance which has to. date been missing. 
I suspect that the present Wool Commission has been very tentative indeed in its use of the flexible reserve price. The theory of this device is that the reserve should always be held on an upward market just below the market price so that when the market peaks the Corporation purchases wool at the time when the price falls. The fact that the Corporation is there at the peak with its reserve enables it to hold prices up and prevent the sudden and disastrous decline in wool prices that has become a characteristic of the wool industry in the past. The flexible reserve price should have been used, in my view, to a greater extent in the past season than it appeared to be used. On the downward trend, the Wool Corporation has control over the rate at which the price declines by virtue of its use of the flexible reserve. When the price reaches the floor price the Corporation moves in to purchase. On the subject of the floor price, I believe that there ought to be, in settling this floor price, two separate components, namely, a commercial component which is the responsibility of the new Wool Corporation and based on commercial decisions and expectations alone and, if necessary, a welfare component which should be the responsibility of this place. A welfare component in a commercial operation is a matter of political judgment which should be made in the political environment. I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Do the recommendations of the CSIRO wool harvesting report of July 1972 indicate possibilities for improving methods and reducing costs in this relatively high cost sector of wool production. 
If so, has consideration been given to the proposal for the establishment of an instrument, similar to the Australian objective measurement project, to foster developments in wool harvesting. 
Is it the intention of the Australian Wool Corporation, with woolgrower associations, the CSIRO, the wool handling section of the industry, machinery manufacturers and other suitable groups, to establish a comprehensive industry and research body to plan and co-ordinate the development of new wool handling techniques. 
If so, will the body include expertise in the fields of engineering, science, animal husbandry, wool growing, industry and commerce, with a full time executive officer and other part-time members. 
Let us go back to 2 November to put this debate in context. On 2 November there was the following headline in the 'Daily Telegraph': Minister and PM Disagree'. What Minister? It was the then Minister for Primary Industry. The former Prime Minister and former Minister for Primary Industry disagreed on one essentia] thing - rural credit. As the former Minister for Primary Industry correctly said, it is essential for farmers to receive long term credit because of the difficulties of marketing and the changing character of development of farms. Even though the $65m - a wonderful figure - grant from the farm development loan fund is a good start, it is only the beginning and it is not enough to establish a rural bank. In the 'West Australian' newspaper on the same day the following appeared: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  said tonight that the Government had not yet completed consideration of the many complex issues involved in a rural bank. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  is quoted as saying that he was disappointed. The article continued: 
The decision is a setback for the Country Party, which has been pressing for the establishment of a rural bank since the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  announced in the Budget that $20m would be allocated for long-term rural loans. 
The facts are that we entered the election campaign with not a farmer knowing whether there was to be a rural credit scheme. The decision making process in the previous Government was that the Country Party proposed and the Liberal Party disposed. This applied not only to the question of rural credit. 
Let us go back to the debate on the reserve price scheme. Who was the vigorous opponent then? It was none other than the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who later became Prime Minister. Who were the supporters - luke warm I admit - on the election platform? None other than the Country 
Party. At that time the Minister for Primary Industry was  Sir Charles  Adermann. Now this decision making process is being held before this Government as a worthy ideal for it to follow. Let us look very carefully at what has happened. The reason that this matter of definite public importance has been raised today is that in the Victorian electorate of Dundas the Australian Labor Party first preference vote increased in the recent Victorian election. We lost that seat because the Country Party in one of a series of desperate moves in the previous election had given its preferences to the Labor Party. However, in this election the Country Party withdrew those preferences from the Labor Party and witnessed the spectacle of its total vote being reduced considerably. That is the motiviation of the Country Party in bringing this matter on for discussion today. The fact is that this Government has announced explicitly to many farmer organisations - I have spoken to some ten or twelve of them - that agricultural policy is now undergoing review. This Government refuses to initiate action impulsively. It requests, and in fact insists, that this long term planning in which we are now involved, must be firmly based but the industry must understand what is being done. 
Sitting suspended from 1 till 2.15 p.m. 
The Opposition parties have created a fiction in regard to the way this Government works. We find the Opposition parties more readily accepting their own fiction because their own governmental mechanism was very strongly dictated by the whims of whoever happened to be the Prime Minister at the time. The facts are that the mechanism used by this Government to arrive at decisions involves the back benchers in a considerably more intimate way than was true for the Opposition parties when they were in government. This Government has as a mechanism 3 decision making areas in this process. The first consists of the Caucus committees. In regard to the present debate, the Government's primary industry committee is the relevant one. We also have Cabinet and Caucus. By the time the decisions have been through these 3 areas, they have been subjected to very close examination and we can be sure that the policy that evolves from this mechanism  is  very soundly based. 
In particular, the primary industry committee, as are most of these committees, is taken extremely seriously by the Ministers involved. On the primary industry committee we have not only the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  but also the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and this shows the falsity in what was claimed by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  earlier today in this House. The honourable member for Wannon has done nothing but display his own ignorance and complete neglect of the facts of the situation. The committee that makes these decisions has as its full members the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Northern Development. How could the Minister for Northern Development go behind the back of the Minister for Primary Industry when they are members of the very same committee that makes the decision? It is absurd to make this claim. 
The members of the Opposition are deluding themselves in perpetuating their fiction of what they believe happens. They have failed to see that the electorate has long since failed to believe the fictitious images that the Opposition raises as a spectre in connection with the Government Party. The primary industry committee, of which I am secretary, has made itself available to all industry groups in the agricultural sector. These groups have displayed a great willingness to speak to the committee. Not only that, but they have also commended the attitude of this Government for its willingness to wait for one year to collect the information and the views of these primary industry groups before it enters into any important policy decisions. The Government subjects these matters to a great deal of consideration and, in fact, we find that the agricultural interest groups have far more interlligence and rationality than the Australian Country Party has traditionally given them credit for possessing. These groups recognise that their policy must be based on a rational and sensible ground. 
When this Government took office, it found as I have already illustrated, complete confusion as to what the Opposition's position was in regard to rural credit. Not one elector could tell honourable members what the now Opposition intended to do after the great dispute between the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the Prime Minister of the day and the then Minister for Primary Industry. Absolute confusion was the keynote of the previous Government on rural credit policies. We found a complete absence of any long term drought relief program which would mitigate against the serious effects of drought and other climatic factors. We found absolutely no protection for market price variations. We found the apple and pear industry in complete chaos. We found that land speculation was so rife as a result of the economic policies of the previous Government that the rating systems in the country had created an impossible cost for the agriculturalists. We found them paying rates that were more equivalent to rents and the very basis for these phenomena was that the previous Government had permitted land speculation to occur unchecked. 
But we look not only to rural finance and the wool reserve price plan to find this dichotomy of opinion between the Liberal and the Country Parties in the previous Government; also, the Country Party wanted to recognise China, while the Liberal Party did not. Public statements were made by the respective leaders of those 2 parties which illustrated a complete disagreement on that point of policy. In this debate one can see the reflection of this confusion between these 2 factions of the previous coalition Government. Yet the Opposition has the audacity today to hold before this Government - a government which is 5 months old and which already has established its reputation as being sensible and soundly based among the agricultural groups - an illustration of the way in which it made decisions for the rural sector when it was in government. I know that the electors in the country will not accept this but will turn down the confusion that that coalition Government represented. Fundamentally, that is why this matter has been raised as being one of public importance. 
I mentioned earlier the vote in the Victorian electorate of Dundas in last Saturday's State elections. The facts are that in the rural areas of Victoria, the Australian Labor Party vote increased last Saturday. The vote for Labor in Dundas, Portland and Kara Kara was higher than for the previous State election. The Country Party vote in Wimmera was half of the vote it received at the previous election. The only solid result to emerge from that election in Victoria is that the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Parity are a dying race. Let us consummate their marriage quickly and see them exported from this country as quickly as possible. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. Does the practice of funding research from industry funds create difficulties in planning research? Has the Minister received complaints from research groups on aspects of this funding and the difficulties that are created? 
We are speaking today to the Appropriation Bills and the Supply Bills dealing with the supply of money to allow government to function. I will take the traditional approach and cover various aspects of the Australian economy. In particular, I will dwell for a moment on the son of approach that is taken by many specialist economists to the problems of this economy. I draw the attention of the House to an article which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' on Friday, 25 May. The article was headed Tribunal Draws Economists Scorn'. It was a front page article. It reviewed the proceedings of a coreference in Adelaide on the. Pries Justification Tribunal. It crystallised the cart of criticism we have, heard today,  Sam  tag honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  which is narrowly based and deals with a very small section of the total economy. 
Specialists in their field tend to suffer from the problem of referring to their own particular specialist interests. I recall, when I was a specialist on wool physics, sitting in the union building of the University of Leeds and wondering why I could not talk to the attractive girls around the union building, until one told me that she was not in the least interested in the plasticity of wool which at that stage was my only interest and my only topic of discussion. It brought home to me a lesson which obviously was not understood by the economists at the Adelaide conference, because each of them established his base for attacking the Prices Justification Tribunal in his particular specialist area. For example, the Prices Justification Tribunal and the problem of inflation overall were characterised by one of the economists as a confrontation over wage claims on the one hand and the need to justify profit rises on the other. To me, that is far too narrow an interpretation of the problem. This will be one of the aspects dealt with the Prices Justification Tribunal in its work. 
Another economist defined the causes of the current inflationary pressures in 3 ways - excessive government spending; an inordinate rise in the money supply, which he was good enough to attribute to the previous Government; and the rise in import prices, which is an importation of inflation into Australia.  His  prescription was a cutting back on public expenditure. I submit to the House that it is time we examined the priorities which lead to this prescription. The election campaign was fought on social issues. The questions df education, health and other welfare problems were clearly defined in the. last election campaign as a major area for government expenditure. Five months after the Government was elected we find economists resorting to the solution of cutting back on public expenditure at a time when this Government is meeting problems and issues which cere clearly put before it as the major issues at the last election campaign. What priorities does this economist hold when he is prepared to cut back on the very issues on which this Government was put into power? It is clear that we need to look at other areas of private and public expenditure in or#r to curb t&amp;o presures that exist in the present . economy. 
To simplify the recommendations by looking at the easiest area of restraint is, in my view, to miss the point. 
Another economist, possibly correctly, claimed that business is not taking excessive profits and that the Prices Justification Tribunal will only reveal this fact. If it does, that is fine; but at least the public needs to have this fact brought before its attention. An agricultural economist who was not named in the article dismissed the Prices Justification Tribunal and the concept as a whole as not worth consideration. The point to be made here is that none of these economists, in fact no economist throughout the world, has presented the solution to the problem of inflation. Without the answers, they are prepared to criticise, and to criticise, as I have illustrated, from the point of view of their own narrow experience in their own specialisation. The basic paper which was the subject for discussion on this occasion correctly called for a cost-benefit analysis of most projects and most areas of government expenditure. I fully subscribe to that view. However, I add that social consideration must be included in such a cost-benefit analysis. It is no good using economic parameters alone as justification for expenditure. We must build into these economic parameters other considerations relating to the social impact of this expenditure. Under those terms I would support the approach of the basic paper at this conference, namely, that cost-benefit analysis should be brought to bear. 
Another economist dismissed the idea of prices justification on the ground that the only areas in which it would be effective were those in which monopoly pricing existed in the economy. The basis of his dismissal was the idea that there was a large number of monopolies in the economy and therefore the Prices Justification Tribunal would require an inordinate number of staff. Almost certainly this will be one area of pricing revealed by this type of investigation, but again I suggest that it is only one of a number of factors that will be revealed by this process. The point that seems to have been missed by the critics of this process is that once again we have no lead from any other part of the world on the approach to controlling inflation. The whole rationale of this approach is that we need to look at individual pricing mechanisms to obtain a better understanding of the things which cause prices to escalate. Firstly, it may be wage claims. Secondly, it may be monopoly pricing. Thirdly - I suspect that this will emerge as a very strong factor - it may be the failure to increase productivity in various areas. We can see from various price rises that wage claims alone are. not enough to explain rapid increases. The prime example is the rise in meat prices, which is attracting most attention at the moment. No one with even a superficial knowledge of this pricing mechanism could attribute that price rise to wage claims. There are many price increases that are due to increases in taxation or the cost of government services. These are more directly in the control of the Government than are some of the other measures we can use to control the economy. I put my finger particularly on the question of productivity because it is a complex area which involves the willingness of manufacturers to accept technological change and, in some cases, provide a competitive area where, their own technology and capital investment will be challenged by other people with new ideas. 
The Australian Industries Development Association in making the case against such things as the Prices Justification Tribunal in its bulletin No. 242 of June 1973 has a very interesting graph on the front page which shows that productivity in Australia has remained fairly constant over the last 2r years. I believe we need to ask the reasons why productivity rises have not been spectacular in this country. One can look at the expenditure on research and development in Australia by Australian industry and find that it falls far short of expenditure by similar organisations overseas. We could find many areas in Australian industry where traditional practice has stood as a barrier to the introduction of new ideas, partly because, as I suggested before, the existing industry has invested large volumes of capital in the traditional processes and they do not wish to see this capital jeopardised by the introduction of new technology. The Prices Justification Tribunal and the associated parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices will in fact reveal some of these areas of price pressures in Australia. Because it is a new area and because it is an experience that no other country has gained, we can expect in the first instance to be educated. We can expect that these 2 groups will point more specifically to the pressures that give rise to price increases in our economy. 
It is far too simple to define the problem as most of the economists have done and, indeed, as most members of the Opposition have done in their speeches in terms of one. or two factors that are responsible for price increases in the economy. It is quite clearly a complicated matter which requires the careful scrutiny and examination that these 2 bodies - the Prices Justification Tribunal and the parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices - will give. I submit that we are now on the threshold of an interesting experience in relation to the management of the economy. Firstly, this Government has accepted the clear mandate from the electorate to give some of the wealth of the country to the underprivileged members of our community. It has also accepted the clear mandate to divert some of this investment into educational resources. These are issues which we have a mandate to carry out and it is whistling in the wind to suggest that a reduction of expenditure in this area is a solution to our current problems. 
It is clear also that this Government needs to develop retraining programs to give labour much greater flexibility than it has had in the past. This is a prerequisite for us being able to allocate our resources more effectively throughout the community. Many of the subsidies and tariffs that we have now in the economy which act as a barrier to the redistribution of resources are not there to produce the. particular commodity but are there quite correctly to protect the welfare of people whose incomes depend on those industries. If those people can be transferred from one industry to another through effective retraining programs, the need for tariffs and subsidies will be reduced significantly. Clearly we need to establish a much more rational and sensible social basis for our community if we are to have a rational, sensible economy. If we continue, as was the practice over the last 23 years, to concentrate on the whole issue as a conflict situation in which it is labour versus capital and in which any 2 groups which can be made to fight are spurred on to fight, then, of course, progress will be frustrated as it has been. These 2 bodies - the Prices Justification Tribunal and the parliamentary Joint Committee - represent a new adventure in opening up our knowledge of the avenues and pressures which cause dislocation in our economy. I commend these Bills to the House. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has some endearing characteristics and mannerisms, and I am sorry that tonight I do not have his spectacles to wind up my argument in the way he twirls them to wind himself up. However, let me draw the attention of the House to the parallels that he has drawn. The question before the House tonight is whether people should be represented. The parallel that has been drawn is whether the Australian Capital Territory and its population of 180,000 people should be compared with the Antarctic and its population of 180,000 penguins. Whom do we represent in this place? Half way between here and Antarctica is the State of Tasmania, with 609 representatives at either the local government level, in the State Parliament, in this place or in the Senate. Tonight we are talking about representation of a population half as large as that of Tasmania, which has long been carried by one member for the ACT, a member for many years denied full representation rights and the opportunity to vote on issues affecting the Commonwealth of Australia. The people of Canberra were denied the opportunity of democratic representation in this place for a great deal of the time that they had a member here. 
I have a very strong interest in this subject. Firstly, I live in Canberra. I was one of the people who had to depend on the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory to represent them, but more importantly I represent an electorate which cradles Canberra and provides the warmth and the background for this place to survive. The ACT, with its population of 180,000 people, has more than a passing bearing on my electorate. It is in one way related to the electorate of Eden-Monaro. I feel that without proper representation in Canberra the people in the area will fail to drink Bega milk for the rest of the time that we are in Government. 
There are issues such as this in which I have a vital concern. I recall my very close and friendly relationship with the previous member of the Australian Capital Territory. I can tell this House right now that if Jim Fraser had run at another election or had stood behind a candidate for this place one of the things that he would have been saying from the platform in that election campaign would have been that the job of representing the ACT is too big for one man. Anybody who knew Jim Fraser knows that he gave his very life to the representation of this electorate in this place. That job was far too big for one man. He was the only person in the whole of this country who could have made that point emphatically and in a way that nobody would have disputed. The job is far too big for one man. 
Compare the 609 local government, state government and federal representatives that Tasmania has to represent it. Why should we be discussing such an issue in such a way in this place tonight? Why should people who live in Canberra, many of whom after all have come from electorates that honourable members in this place represent, suddenly, upon coming to the ACT, cease to have the privileges that other Australians enjoy, the privileges of democracy and representation which we all so correctly support for the people in other areas of Australia? The Northern Territory has its unique problems. Again, it is expected to be represented here by one person. How can this be done? How can anybody argue against the fundamental democracy of giving people proper representation? We need to have a proper recognition of people's rights in this place tonight. 
There is only one question. Are these eople Australians and are they going to enjoy the democratic advantages that other Australians enjoy? What is unique about the people of the ACT and the Northern Territory? Do they get some special privilege which allows them to be cocooned without proper representation? Where is the great honour that we hear about from the Opposition on the hustings, this great privilege that is given to the individuals of the country in defence of their liberty and in defence of their right to be represented properly in this place? Where is that great thing tonight? I ask this individualist laissez-faire Liberal Party which pays such tribute to the rights and privileges of Australian citizens: Where is this great thing tonight? It seems to be completely swamped in the analogies that we have been expected to swallow in the arguments that have been presented. 
What sort of parties do we find confronting this Government on the Opposition benches tonight? Can there be any question that the Australian Capital Territory is underrepresented? Can any objective person who applies himself to this problem say that both the ACT and the Northern Territory are properly represented? Can anybody deny this in the face of the facts? Even if we accept the proposition that we should have a fraction of the representation that Tasmania has, the request that 4 people should represent the rights of the people of the ACT is a very mediocre request when we are confronted with 609 representatives for twice the population of the ACT. That would work out at 300 for the ACT on an equivalent population basis. It is a mediocre request indeed. Now we find that the Opposition goes through the farce of going back to 1870. We know that it lives in the past. The Opposition quoted the conditions of 1870 as a reason why people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory cannot be properly represented in this place. 
There are objective people in this community. The population of Australia, in the main, are reasonable people, objective people who vote for common sense. There cannot be any doubt about the outcome of this Bill tonight and its worthy objective. There is undoubted unanimity among the 180.000 people, the growing population of the ACT, that they must have proper representation ;n this place. As I said earlier, I had the unique experience, among those 180,000 people, of knowing the previous member of the Australian Capital Territory on a very close and personal basis. I know the present honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in a similar way. I also represent an electorate which, as I have mentioned, cradles this electorate of the Australian Capital Territory. 
There is a close and proper association between the 2 areas. The interdependence was not recognised by the previous Government. It is absoluetely essential for a proper spirit of development of the region that we have good representation in the Australian Capital Territory. That is in the interest of both EdenMonaro and Hume, those 2 electorates on the flank of this area. There is an interdependence between the areas. The problems that those electorates suffer are created by the A.C.T. At the same time, the opportunities that will give those 2 electorates the chance to develop and expand are created again by the A.C.T. We are confronted in this area with either disaster or success. In order that this opportunity to capitalise and become successful is taken, in order that the roads that connect the areas are made capable of handling the tourist trade and do not impinge on the economies of those other ,2 electorates, in order that market outlets in this place are capitalised on and in order that the hospital and educational facilities that the Australian Capital Territory offers can be used to the benefit of the total region it is absolutely essential that we have proper representation in the A.C.T. and that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has time to get past getting the odd cat out of the tree and looking at the wider issues that affect the total area. The electoral representation work that is involved in the office of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory would leave most honourable members in this place staggered. 
We hear, quite correctly, that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has extra staff to help - one extra person in his office. There is one extra person in his office. My wife worked for the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory on a part time basis because of the overwhelming amount of work that he had to do. We saw one member for the Australian Capital Territory killed by this job. Yet we have this begrudging attitude from the Opposition. It begrudges the fact that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has one more person on his staff than any other member of the House of Representatives. Yet the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has to do the amount of work that is done by 300 parliamentary representatives in other areas. This is the level of appreciation that the Opposition shows for the problems of the Australian Capital Territory. I could not conclude, on a better note than this display of ignorance of the problems which exist in these 2 Territories. 
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority was established by the Commonwealth in 1949. Its function was to carry out detailed investigation, design and construction of the Snowy Mountains scheme over the period of its operation. An area of over 2,000 square miles has been worked and there is now an integrated water and electrical generating system. It is quite a feat by world standards. There are now hundreds of miles of transmission lines interconnecting the supply systems of New South Wales, Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory. The capital cost of the scheme will amount to about $800m by the time of its completion, all of which will be paid for from revenue from the supply of electricity. A water supply of 2 million acre feet is a bonus to the inland of Australia and it will not be necessary to cover the cost of delivering the water because that cost will be covered by revenue from electricity supply. 
The Snowy Mountains Council was created to direct, control and maintain the completed works, and it now operates from Cooma. As the scheme is in my electorate, situated in our largest snow area and one of the most scenic regions in Australia, I have asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  to organise a government members' tour of the area. This has been agreed to by both Ministers. I hope honourable members, particularly new members, will take the opportunity to inspect the scheme and to see the area in which it is situated. 
All members are invited. I thank the honourable member for the correction. In 1970 the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation was established to use the engineering skills and expertise built up by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. The Corporation has won overseas projects against very strong international competition. On the invitation of the New South Wales Government the Corporation is involved in work on the Shoalhaven scheme and the Eastern Suburbs Railway. This Bill removes the restraints on the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation that confine its activity to the development of water resources, works associated with electricity and underground works. Even in those areas, because of the restrictions, the Corporation had to operate through private consulting engineers and could not engage in any construction work in Australia. We believe that they are unnecessary restraints on the operations of the Corporation. 
The possibility of completion with private enterprise is a myth. On the contrary, the Corporation has provided opportunities for private enterprise in this country that did not previously exist. We believe that the unnecessary restrictions have had quite a dampening effect on the expansion of the Corporation. The Bill lifts the restrictions and the Corporation can now accept contracts for consultation and construction works. This will allow the Corporation to tender for works on such projects as the national pipeline. I also feel that in addition to the restrictions imposed by the Act another anomaly deserving the attention of this Parliament has existed. The Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority inherited very strong arbitral powers which presumably were required for the functioning of the Authority during the construction period of the scheme. These powers are now extremely overbearing and wide sweeping in respect of the present function of the Authority and the future function of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. I believe, as the member for the electorate, that those arbitral powers should now be subjected to very close scrutiny. The powers associated with the man in charge of the new organisation should be reduced to fit the function of that position. With the removal of the restrictions on the scope of the work that the Corporation can undertake it is expected that many more people will be absorbed from the Snowy Mountains Authority. In this respect I would like to discuss for a few minutes the impact of this measure on the town in which the Corporation is situated. 
Land sales are currently being undertaken by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. In my view, at least, this action seems contrary to the express function of the lands commission and of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. That Department has established a lands commission to purchase land for urban development and a Cities Commission to develop that land under proper guidance. In respect of Cooma, the temporary nature of the Snowy Mountains Authority is relevant. Its objectives have been achieved and I think it is time to review what is to happen to the houses in 
Cooma. Most of the Authority's houses in Cooma were built for a short life span of about 20 years. Most of them have exceeded that life span. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, a permanent organisation, has been established and it is time that we looked at the provision of permanent accommodation for the people employed by the Corporation and the Snowy Mountains Council. On that point it seems sensible to employ the resources of the Cities Commission. I hope that that aspect of this Bill and its relationship to the setting up and administration of the Corporation can be handled between the Corporation and the Cities Commission. I hope that some consideration will be given to the wider work of the Corporation. 
The social conscience of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority has become one of its claims to fame. The Authority's consideration for conservation, its employees and the people in the communities which impinged upon the activities of the Authority has become a legend in the area. It would be a pity if, at the inauguration of the Corporation, that social conscience was forgotten. I would not like to see the continuation of the work that has now become fairly standard; that is the indiscriminate sale of land to various interests in the private sector in the Cooma area. I commend this Bill to the House and I look forward to the stability that it will introduce into my electorate. I look forward to greater achievements from the Corporation. I am sure it will be a worthy successor to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. 
I rise to speak to this Bill because I had the pleasure of completing my formal education on King Island at the age of 14 and spent 2 years over there to receive some of the best practical experience in a very warm and friendly community.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am privileged that you are sitting in the chair at the moment because I know you had a very difficult task, probably one of the most difficult tasks, on King Island and that was to minister to the population which at that time consumed 5.5 pints of beer per week for each man, woman and child. I recall that the flow of this commodity, like that of many others at that stage, was interrupted by various holdups in the shipping service. As a school boy I was always very pleased when these happened because the petrol ran out and the school bus could not run and I was able to stay at home. 
To set the situation in geographic terms, King Island is a basin which stands off the north-west tip of Tasmania. Inside the basin there are no rabbits. There are lots of kangaroos, and extremely intelligent ones, because I recall that in the days when we were growing potatoes they would always wait until we dug the potatoes up before they came and ate them. There are a number of snakes. The island has the highest lighthouse in the southern hemisphere, and on the northern end of the island there are many mutton birds and some pheasants. I am giving you these statistics,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  just to illustrate that there is a viable community with a great deal of interest on King Island. A regular shipping service would not only supply it but also take away its commodities. There are in fact 3,000 people in the community on the island today. 
The west coast of King Island is rocky and bordered by reefs extending 3 miles into the Great Australian Bight. This piece of coastline has claimed 57 wrecks, probably more wrecks per mile of coastline than any other piece of coast in Australia. The east coast is open and sandy. There is always a wind on King Island, sometimes reaching gale force. I clearly remember an occasion - this is quite relevant to Currie Harbour because this is one of the difficulties in entering and leaving Currie Harbour - when my father, rounding up cattle, crested a hill and the wind ripped every button off his coat. His hat took to the air and gained altitude and has no doubt since been reported as an unidentified flying object. On the east coast, which is a sandy strip, the Naracoopa jetty was blown out to sea during a gale. So the experience of building a port on the eastern side of King Island stands as testimony to any recommendation we should make on the episode. 
Currie Harbour is the only natural harbour on the island that has been used in the past. As the honourable member for Braddon has mentioned and as I have tried to illustrate, the approaches and entrance to Currie Harbour are extremely narrow. They are reef strewn and the Harbour is small and shallow. 
While on King Island I also had the very interesting experience of seeing the water run out of the harbour and a ship tied to the jetty at the time - perhaps in some ironically classical was called the 'Argonaut' - became stuck in the mud and when the water returned remained there for some time with water in its hold. King Island is characterised by many such stories. Most of them are about the harbour itself. I recall another occasion when a ship had been held off on the other side of the reef from entering Currie harbour for nearly 3 weeks and finally the captain ran the ship on to a sand bar as he came through the narrow heads. In the subsequent inquiry he claimed that he had been held off outside Currie Harbour for so long that he had run out of whisky and in 15 years of bringing ships into that harbour he had never come in sober. He said he always thought there were 3 pilot lights and not two. 
It is an extremely difficult harbour to negotiate. It is appropriate that the proposal that we now discuss should situate the new port at Grassy near the scheelite mine which is one of the expanding industries on the island. There are many industries on King Island of course. It has a temperate climate which lends itself to the production of meat, dairy products, wool and other agricultural pursuits. These are the main exports from the island. I was there basically because I had relations there. In 1947 my uncle found it very difficult indeed to export cattle and to get cargo space on ships for this purpose. The production of that island at that stage was severely limited by the capacity of people to export from it. It is clear that in order to maximise the potential production of this island we must have a new port. 
There are other mining activities on the island. I recall the experiences of another miner,  Mr Max  Gatenby, who operates a rutile mine on the eastern seaboard of the island.  Mr Gatenby  also provides entertainment for the people who frequent the Currie Harbour and other harbours on the island. He operates a picture theatre there. He was ingenious enough to construct his own projector for it. In 1947 this home made projector was very effective in entertaining the sailors and fishermen of Currie Harbour and, of course, other residents of the island. Unfortunately there were frequent breakdowns. When the program was interrupted and there was one flick on the lights, that meant that the audience was to wait in their seats because the repairs could be made in the projection room. Two flicks of the lights meant that the breakdown was a little more serious and we all went out for coffee. Three flicks meant that we went to the dance and an announcement would be made when the projector was repaired. We would then all come back to see the remainder of the show, sometimes ending in the middle of Sunday afternoon. 
I am using these illustrations to indicate that the community of King Island is very warm, friendly and productive. It is absolutely essential that this community should not be isolated by having inadequate transport facilities. It has been necessary to cultivate some of the production resources on the island by flying meat from the abattoirs to the mainland. In this way some opportunity has been given to the many soldier settlers who have taken up residence on the island. I commend the Bill to the House. I am sure that that port will be well serviced in the future, regardless of the cynicism displayed by the Opposition. 
-I would like to couple my tribute to Dugald Munro with that of Allan Fraser, who is not, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  implied, dead. Allan Fraser held a great regard for Dugald Munro 's friendship and found that although he was his direct political protagonist in EdenMonaro his political fight with Dugald Munro could always be conducted on a proper personal basis, each paying due regard to the integrity of the other. Allan Fraser believed that only he, because of his previous experience- some 23 years experience in representing that electoratewho electorate- could possibly win EdenMonaro back from Dugald Munro, and it was for that reason that Allan Fraser ran again for the electorate in 1969. 
Eden-Monaro is an electorate which is not particularly impressed with headlines in newspapers. There are over 50 population centres throughout the area. Unless one visits these centres and talks to the people in the individual areas one makes very little impression indeed. I think that one of the greatest tributes that can be paid to Dugald Munro is that the people in nearly every one of the population centres throughout that electorate remembered him before his death. They were able to make comments about Dugald Munro 's contribution to their community, which demonstrates beyond doubt not only that he played an active role in this place but also that he played an active role throughout the diverse electorate of EdenMonaro. He gave great attention to detail, and I think that in many respects when he left this House and became a student this attention was reflected in his interests in the university studies that he took up. 
His loyalty to his own leaders was manifest in all sorts of ways. It came through in his defence in the electorate of the policy of the Government at the time he was a member and also in the way in which he championed many policies which in some regards were opposed to the interests of the people of his own electorate. In a sense this loyalty was one of the things he had to defend probably to the greatest extent throughout the electorate. He stood behind his leaders. The loyalty that led to this stand was recognised by the electors of Eden-Monaro and it is something they remembered vividly as they read the terrible news of his death. I express my sympathy, and I couple with this expression that of Allan Fraser 's, to his wife and family. We all feel the loss incurred by Dungald Munro 's departure from our midst. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Wool Corporation discussed the implications of technical developments in wool marketing with any of the unions or trade associations involved in wool marketing. 
If so, which unions or associations were involved, and when did these discussions take place. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
In the matter of noise pollution, are there international standards for noise levels of aircraft landing and taking off. 
If so, which of the following aircraft are (a) above and (b) below those standards: Boeing 747, Boeing 707, Boeing 727, Douglas DC9, BAC 111, Fokker F28, Fokker F27, HS 125, HS 748. 
Are there any adjectives left in the dictionary? We have heard them all. But where was the argument? Where was the logic? We have heard the adjectives but what was the argument? The historic Budget which was brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  represents the foundations for a transformed Australian society in which the person matters, and reflects the mandate given to the Government at the last election. Expenditure on housing and community amenities, so long neglected by the previous Government, has been increased in this Budget by $41 lm over the provision for 1972-73, a massive rise of 324 per' cent. Education follows with an increased expenditure of $404m, nearly double the amount' spent on it in the previous year. Expenditure on social security and welfare is next, and then there is health with an increase of $196m or 25 per cent more than was provided in 1972-73, followed by transport and communications. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  condemns these expenditures. The clear priorities established in his speech last night were for expenditure to protect industry, mining, manufacturing and investors in that order. No wonder the Liberals cringe when they are asked to specify their preferences and priorities in simple uncomplicated language. The stark materialism of their philosophy emerges in such language. Factories before education; commercial profits before housing, investors before pensioners. This is what their philosophy sounds like when it comes down to simple uncomplicated words. 
There is much criticism of the support given to the public sector of the economy by the present Budget at the expense of the private sector. Wc arc told by the Opposition that the public sector is unproductive and that the private sector is the source of all wealth. The shortterm materialism of this approach is brought home to every parent when they realise that the Liberals are prepared to brand schools as unproductive while the mindless production of consumer goods is a virtue to be worshipped by the Opposition Parties. Docs the Liberal Party brand as unproductive the research that is carried out with public funds? Do supporters of that party say that the efforts of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other research bodies, paid for by the money in this Budget, is unproductive? They said this last night. I believe they would be taking good advice if they were to cease to listen to the traditionalists in the industry which supports them in every way and whose position is threatened by technological developments. They should take note of the rational allocation of resources as they are set out in this Budget. The Country Party reacts in blind rage, in a kindergarten style, to changes in support for primary industry. 
Let us make a close examination of the support changes in this Budget so far as primary industry is concerned. One of these is assistance to industry to compensate for low prices. These include payments to the Australian Wheat Board and payments under the wool deficiency payments scheme. There may be one rational Country Party member who can appreciate the fact that a government docs not have to make these sorts of payments to offset low prices when prices are at their present record high. There may be one rational Country Party member who realises that the Government of which he was a supporter was phasing this out last year in response to increasing prices. The current Budget increases the grants paid for rural research by SI 1 .4m. The Budget also increases grants paid for rural credit facilities by $2 1.8m. Those increases are a prelude to an increasing emphasis on encouraging technical change to improve productivity and also to provide a long needed rural credit facility to specialise in handling the unique problems of credit in the agricultural sector. 
Another type of payment which we have seen in the traditional budgets is that which is designed to support the narrow sectional interests such as the wool marketing assistance which has been dropped in this Budget. That payment was made for no other reason than to protect wool selling brokers against the competition of private buyers. These grants have gone and with them a memorial to Country Party wool policy - the one memorial left, the price averaging plan. Payments such as these made to preserve the vested interest groups in the market have a fundamental significance in the present economy. It is payments such as these that distort the flow of resources and result in shortages of commodities in the market.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you can understand why education never rated high whilst the Country Party was able to mould the allocation of resources. Just listen to those members of the Country Party who are seeking to interject. The level may be likened to grade 4 at a primary school. (Quorum formed.) 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. In discussions with oil companies on the level of wholesale prices for petrol to be charged in the Australian Capital Territory would the Minister emphasise to the oil companies the fact that retailers in Queanbeyan draw supplies from the same source as those in the Australian Capital Territory and therefore should receive those supplies at the same wholesale price as that charged to suppliers in the Australian Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister for Civil 
Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the average hourly operating cost under similar conditions for each of the following aircraft: 
Boeing 747, Boeing 707, Boeing 727, BAC111, Douglas DC9, Fokker F28, Fokker F27, HS 125, HS 748. 
What is the range and the cruising speed of each of these aircraft. 
What is the take-off distance for each aircraft, fully loaded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 395 (Hansard, 8 May 1973, page 1843), does the Australian Wool Corporation call tenders for its wool testing requirements. 
Is it a fact that Auscore have quoted lower rates for wool testing than other test houses; if so, what is the explanation for the lack of Wool Corporation support for this company. 
Because of various rumours and various interpretations that have been placed on the effects of the Budget on primary producers, particularly in regard to taxation concessions, I have gone to the trouble to have many of the points clarified by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and I should like to place them on record tonight. Firstly, the Budget has provided new credit facilities for farmers, particularly to keep farms together on the death of the principal, and also to provide funds for debt reconstruction. This money is available through the Commonwealth Development Bank. 
The Budget changed a number of taxation concessions, particularly the capital expenditure that applies to depreciable items. In the past these items were subject to immediate depreciation in the year the expenditure was incurred. They are now deductible at prescribed rates based on the estimated life of these investments. There are 2 types of depreciation system - the prime cost method and the diminishing value method. There is a choice of the 2 methods. The items themselves can be deducted only by primary producers. The privilege does not apply to any manufacturer or other business person. Another type of expenditure which is incurred by" farmers involves non-depreciable items such as clearing, drainage and soil conservation. These previously were fully deductible in the year they were incurred. They are now deductible over a period of 10 years at 10 per cent per annum. 
I have risen during this adjournment debate tonight because there is great confusion among the farmers in my electorate and I am sure among other farmers. This clarification is necessary. I have gone to the trouble of establishing the facts. Indeed, the mechanism I have used was available to anybody who cared to do likewise. I intend to continue my remarks in order to clarify the position. Expenditure on non-depreciable items which are involved in capital investment in clearing land, as I have mentioned, is deductible over a period of 10 years. Expenditure incurred in the maintenance of farm facilities is deducted in the year of the expenditure. Such expenditure might include the removal of suckers in a paddock. The acceleration depreciation, which involves expenditure on plant and structural improvements, was previously subjected to a depreciation rate of 20 per cent. This has now been brought into line with other business practice and such expenditure is depreciated at rates prescribed by the Commissioner of Taxation. For example, there is a 15 per cent depreciation rate for vehicles. The question of accelerated depreciation has now been brought into line with other business enterprises. 
Double deductibility for properties has been removed. One of the fundamental objectives of the particular reforms carried out in the Budget is to make it difficult for people to speculate in the development, improvement and resale of farm land. Double deductibility previously allowed a purchaser of land to deduct in the year of expenditure the money spent on its development and then when the land was subsequently sold to deduct again the same amount of money. This second deduction has now been removed and the original investment is depreciated over time in accordance with normal business practice. The investment allowance of 20 per cent over and above the normal deduction rate has been withdrawn in the 1973 Budget. This allowance applied not only to primary producers but also to manufacturers. It has been withdrawn for all parties. 
There has been also a very serious misrepresentation of the comments of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in relation to deductibility of rates. Among farmers there is a widely held view that they are included in the limit of $300. 
In his Budget Speech the Treasurer specifically mentioned that householders' private property would be subject to a limit of $300 for rates deductibility. Many farmers have questioned whether this limit applies to their farm operations, but this is not so. The limitation is only on private residential land and not on property from which income is derived. Special privileges have been extended to the farming community and the spirit of these privileges has been maintained in the $20m allocated to rural credit. This money will be available through the Commonwealth Development Bank. One privilege, which has long been enjoyed by the farming community, concerns income averaging over a 5-year period. This remains and is reinforced by the Government's intention to develop long term credit for the agricultural sector. Privileges previously established for estate duties and sales tax exemption on non-alcoholic beverages containing wholly Australian fruit or vegetable juice also remain unaltered. 
It has been necessary to develop these particular points, most of which were clearly enunciated in the Treasurer's Budget Speech and which could have been deducted quite easily from that Speech, because they have been misinterpreted by members of the Opposition as they have gone about the countryside. There has been a clear and demonstrable attempt on the part of the Opposition to confuse rather than to clarify the position for the farming community. Members of the Opposition have chosen to capitalise on change, which involves considerably less in respect of a reduction in assistance than was true of the previous Budget. Honourable members opposite have chosen to capitalise on the confusion which they have created and aggravated. I feel that it is absolutely essential to clarify these changes in the approach to the rural sector in order to remove the confusion created by the Opposition. 
I address a question to the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it correct that the property in the Territory known as Tipperary has been recently sold? Are there any unusual features of this sale and will the sale affect any minority communities that are associated with this very large cattle property? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. (Opposition members interjecting). 
I do. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  has accused me of supporting the imposition of an export tax on meat. In 'Federal File' the other evening I was asked a question as to whether the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices had found a solution to the problem of high meat prices in Australia. My answer was: 
On the evidence available to the Committee there appeared to be only 2 things that can be done: One, to bring in some form of domestic quota and the second to bring in an export tax. 
I then elaborated- (Opposition members interjecting). 
I then elaborated on the only evidence that was available to the Committee. I am not surprised that the honourable members of the Country Party lack the intellect to be able to distinguish between an objective analysis of evidence and a personal opinion on what is required in the political forum. This distinction has escaped them quite obviously because their entire relationship with this particular Committee- 
 Mr Speaker,  right through the interview with 'Federal File' the other evening I confined my remarks to the evidence of the Committee and an analysis of that evidence. I am not surprised, as I have mentioned, that the Country Party- 
I am not surprised that the Country Party has misrepresented me in this way because it has something to answer for in the irresponsible and dishonourable way it has treated this Committee and leaked information to the Press and the public media. 
I am disappointed that the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has fallen for the miscalculations presented to him by the Australian Country Party. Before this night is out, we will see that the public servants in the Department of Primary Industry have not made the error that has been attributed to them by honourable members opposite tonight. The shortage of meat inspectors is something which has concerned a number of members representing country electorates. Not very long after I became a member of this place, a difficult position arose at Goulburn. It was necessary to apply to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to have meat inspectors restored to the abattoir at Goulburn in order that the production chain should not fold up. The need for more reserves and personnel in the meat inspection service is painfully obvious to anybody who has an abattoir in his electorate. We have heard from members of the Australian Country Party that it is rubbish to provide enough meat inspectors to an abattoir to keep it working. We realise now just how superficial is the Country Party's approach to this whole problem. The shortage of meat inspectors is paralleled by the quality of the work they perform. As we have heard already tonight, Australia has an unexcelled reputation in its approach to the question of meat inspection. 
There is one aspect of meat inspection which has been overlooked by members of the Opposition in their approach to this question. We heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  drawing an analogy between meat inspection and the inspection of other rural products. However, there is a major difference between these inspection services. Meat inspection involves inspecting every carcass. In the sense that we must apply the inspection process in detail to every carcass, it is not so much a quality control question as most inspection services are, but indeed a matter of production input in the process of slaughtering meat. The difference between this process and the normal quality control process is the fundamental problem that arises in an abattoir when inspectors are withdrawn. It is impossible to carry out a superficial inspection of meat. It is essential that every carcass be inspected and, therefore, that we have enough meat inspectors in the abattoirs to carry out such an inspection. 
The Bill now before us will ensure that the meat inspection services of Australia maintained not only in quality but also in the terms of the supply of inspectors. It is quite clear that we need more inspectors and I am pleased that this problem has at least been approached in a systematic fashion. It is the height of hypocrisy to say that export meat should not be charged to the industry when, in fact, meat consumed on the local market is already charged to the industry by the State governments. It is absurd. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party made the claim that export meat, like other export primary products, should be a charge on the taxpayer and not on the industry. 
 There is a large number of questions that need to be cleared up in regard to meat inspection services. The fact that we have duplicate meat inspection services - Federal and State - is something that should be looked at systematically with an open mind in order to simplify the whole process of meat inspection. There can be no question that unnecessary costs are involved because of this duplication, and I should like to see those costs reduced. 
By this Bill we have placed the question of meat inspection on a proper ongoing basis. The industry pays for a production input just as any other industry pays for its production inputs. The meat industry is a strong and virile industry and I am absolutely sure - indeed, I have confidence in the people involved in the industry - that the people of the industry have no wish to be subsidised by the general taxpayer in this respect. They have no objection whatsoever to incorporating in the production process what is a legitimate production cost. The Australian Government offers the best method of collecting charges on export meat and the Bill we have before us tonight provides the most efficient way in which the charges can be collected and in which the meat inspection services can be administered. I believe that not only will the correctness of this Bill be accepted by the meat industry and meat producers but also the industry will recognise that it places a firm foundation under a splendid service offered by the Federal Government to the industry. For these reasons, I commend the Minister for bringing the Bill before this House. 
I should like to conclude my few remarks by referring to comments made by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party. He made 2 factual errors in his speech tonight. They were, firstly, in his reference to my opinion on the subject of an export tax and, secondly, in regard to the calculations lying behind the Bill we have before us. I believe that this is indicative of the entire approach that members of the Country Party have to the rural electorate- panic the electorate into fear, create an atmosphere of uncertainty and then capitalise on the political implications of it for all they are worth. The real logic of the argument and its factual basis are not only covered up; they are also not understood by members of the Country Party who wish to create an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty for their own narrow political ends. I register my objection to the way that members of the Country Party have used this Bill to further those ends. 

 Mr SINCLAIR (New England)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a person explanation. 
On the evidence available to the Joint Committee on Prices Sub-Committee which inquired into meat prices, there appeared to be only 2 options to reduce the price of meat consumed in Australia in the short term. One was to bring in some form of domestic quota and the other was to impose a tax on exported beef. On the evidence of  Mr Giles  from the Department of Primary Industry, which appears on page 348 of the Hansard report of the Committee's proceedings, the Committee rejected the idea of quotas. In summary,  Mr Giles  said: 
Therefore, if you are looking for a device  -  I am not talking about policy now; I am talking about the mechanics - I say that quantitative restriction is not the way. The fiscal measure could be the way. 
The Sub-Committee then had to examine the question of an export tax as a means of reducing domestic prices. Clearly it was essential that there be no inhibition to production and, on the face of it, this would appear to eliminate an export tax. This qualification, however, appeared to evaporate as witness after witness gave evidence that overseas buyers rather than Australian producers would absorb the increase. This conclusion is expressed in paragraphs 58 and 59 of the report. Surprisingly, the same view is expressed in the dissenting report in the quotation from the evidence from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. That appears in dissent attachment 4. 
On 1 September, the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  supported this view. He released a Press statement in which he said: 
If an export tax is to have any effect it will have to be very high because the United States, Europe and Japan are so desperate for meat that they will certainly pay higher prices for it. 
That view contradicts the case which the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has just made. A view similar to that expressed by the Leader of the Country Party was put forward recently by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  on the television program 'Federal File'. On this evidence, the meat market as it stands is not extracting the maximum price from overseas. This is the only conclusion that one can draw from the comments made by the Leader of the Country Party and the honourable member for Gippsland. The sheer logic of the argument presented by these people and by other witnesses who appeared before the Sub-Committee leads to the conclusion that if any export tax was returned to producers it would raise rather than lower the total income of those producers. Only a small amount of beef needs to be diverted to the domestic market to lower prices and, because of the strong export demand that now exists on the overseas market, it would be necessary to raise a large tax to obtain this diversion. If the evidence given to the SubCommittee and accepted by the Leader of the Country Party in his Press statement is correct, producers' income lost by the fall in domestic prices would be more than offset by increased income from exports. 
As a member of a committee charged with the responsibility of arriving at an objective review of the evidence presented to that committee, I have endorsed this report and its conclusions. In practice, I think the use of an export tax to reduce domestic prices will be inefficient and therefore, in my view, the second recommendation holds the key for success in the market. The summary dismissal of this second recommendation by the dissenters - that recommendation was that a voluntary restriction should be placed on beef exports by exporters - disregards the fact that the industry did impose voluntary controls when its own vested interests were at stake. This occurred in regard to quotas on the United States market. The general dismissal of such a recommendation, seeking the co-operation of the industry to take control of the matter voluntarily, highlights the basic cause of inflation - individual greed. The dissenters are not even prepared to ask the industry to assist, because they have such a low opinion of its desire to co-operate. 
It is disappointing that none of the organisations representing producers paid any attention to the medium to long term effects of high prices on domestic meat eating habits. It is ironic that wool producers become disturbed about the effect of high wool prices on substitution of consumers' demands, whilst meat producers do not. Wool can be stored - it is a non-perishable product - during the low price period. Meat, being a perishable product which must be cleared in the market and which therefore is more likely to suffer from a change in consumer habits, is more vulnerable to high prices in. the domestic market.  Dr Freebairn  from the New South Wales Department of Agriculture told the Committee, as reported at page 498 of the Hansard transcript of the proceedings: 
The economic studies of meat demand indicate that changes in the. retail prices of different meats have significant effects on the quantities demanded and prices of other ^ meats. Thus, for example, the current higher prices for beef and lamb induce consumers to purchase greater quantities of pigmeats, poultry and mutton and in so doing tend to raise the prices of these meats as well. 
It is significant that, in the chart presented by the dissenters in their report, the price of pork is considerably below the price of mutton and beef. Therefore, the incentive to switch to those products, which was recognised by the Pig Breeders Federation in its submission to the Committee, is quite high. The recommendation suggesting that the Australian Government take an active role in the promotion of white meat was in response to an appeal by the pigmeat producers. The pigmeat producers were asking the Government not to subsidise promotion but simply to collect a levy from the industry in order that the industry would have the money for promotion. 
The Sub-committee was investigating meat prices on the domestic market. It was very evident to the Sub-committee that the industry had not given much thought to the domestic meat market. Even (hough Colonel McArthur admitted that the domestic market is more important than other markets, perhaps the most important thing that he said to the Subcommittee - he appeared before it in his capacity as Chairman of the Australian Meat Board - is to be found at page 346 of the 
Hansard report. He stated that no accurate statistics were available on the types and quantities of meat eaten by Australians. When the Sub-committee asked for evidence to support the proposition that beef from the north was exclusively exported and that beef from the south was mainly consumed on the domestic market, we received from the Australian Meat Board a set of statistics which considerably moderated that conclusion. This grave deficiency in the information available to the Australian industry resulted in recommendations (v) and (vi) in the report. 
I turn now to the very serious question of industry confidence. In the course of his interview on the television program 'Federal File' recently, the honourable member for Gippsland said: 
Industry confidence is quite fragile and it's taken years to build up. We could damage our reputation as an overseas seller. 
I agree with this view. I also agree that speculation in the industry currently has resulted in a loss of confidence. The real question is: Who is responsible for this speculation? On 1 September, 19 days ago, the Leader of the Country Party was quoted in the 'Canberra Times' as predicting that a tax as high as 12c a lb, representing more than $130m would be applied initially to meat exports. That newspaper report continued: 
The Government thought it could reduce domestic meat prices through export taxes and the Australian industry should urgently prepare itself. 
The Leader of the Country Party then went on to say that having once applied a tax and finding it did not work the Government would keep increasing it in an  altempt  to make it work. 

 Mr Speaker, what rationale was there for that statement? Either it was a mischievous attempt to create an atmosphere of uncertainty in the meat industry or, as it quotes the Government's action so authentically, it was the result of information obtained from Government sources in some way or other - in other words, a leak. If the industry is confused- 
If the industry is confused, its confusion is due- 
If, indeed, there was no leak, the onus lies squarely on the Leader of the Country Party to demonstrate that. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. Is the Minister aware of the concern among a number of people in Queanbeyan and areas surrounding the Australian Capital Territory about Press statements indicating that quotas will be imposed on enrolments in trade and certificate courses at the Canberra Technical College? Is any provision being made to expand accommodation to allow for larger classes at this College? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. What is the degree of pollution in the Molonglo River and Lake Burley Griffin resulting from the now disused mines at Captains Flat? Is excestive pollution coming from these disused mines and is there any danger of that pollution destroying the quality of Lake Burley Griffin? If there ls such excessive pollution and danger, what steps is the Government taking to solve the problem? 
 I ask the Minister for Defence the following question: In view of the damage that could be caused by the threatened locust plague in New South Wales, could he give details of measures that have been taken to combat this plague? 
We have just heard a classic example of the Liberal-Country Party approach to the electorate. It is: You establish an image of what must be ahead and then attribute this as a fact that is accepted by government and then condemn government for it. The electoral image that the Opposition parties are creating will in the end be their own destruction. They have no positive policies. They condemn the public expenditure embodied in our Budget because, as we now know, they are financed by big business and it is for them that they speak. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  obviously did not read his political journal this week. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' had an editorial condemning the gulf that has widened between this Government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The reason for this is that they have different views on the referendum on incomes. But we heard the honourable member for Bradfield say tonight that there is almost complete union. The Opposition wants it both ways. The domination of the Opposition by big business is excelled only by the Opposition's inability to grasp the fact that it is not in government. Let us consider the claims that have been made by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who said that the superphosphate bounty will be lifted by the Government and that  Colonel McArthur  will be sacked as the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board. They are wonderful predictions. They are categorical statements about what the Government will do. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  posturing on the steps of Parliament House last week, confidently predicted that the Government had decided to make a senator Minister for the Capital Territory because, as he said, this man would be the hatchet man. Once again a spokesman for the Opposition made a fatal mistake. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr 
Anthony) confidently predicted that the Government would impose a meat tax. Not only that, he is reported to have said: that having once applied a tax and finding it did not work the Government would keep increasing it in an attempt to make it work. 
It is this sort of fabrication that leads the Opposition into these stupid mistakes that it made in the Senate when it removed 0.6c from the proposed export tax on meat. It has now placed in jeopardy the entire brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign. The American importers are now wondering what new devilment, what new uncertainty is being introduced into the meat market by the people who are supposed to be the champions of the country men. The question of 'Where will this money come from?' is now well worth asking. As a result of the actions of the Country Party and the Liberal Party in the Senate money  V  be gained from the export tax which was to  have  been used to pay for the brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign is now not available. Why is it not available? Herein lies the fatal flaw. The ex-Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  was able to encourage his confederates to drop this 0.6c tax because they made an incredible mistake. They got their facts wrong once again. They based their calculation on the weight of carcass meat. A Country Party ex-Minister did not realise that when we export beef we export a great deal of it boneless and therefore the export weight is considerably lighter than the carcass weight. 
Honourable members interjecting- 
 Mr Speaker,  I have obviously struck a raw nerve. The Opposition has made its mistake. Its homework was faulty and it has once more placed another element of uncertainty in the meat industry. Firstly, the Opposition parties are the ones who were entirely responsible for creating the uncertainty associated with the meat export tax. Secondly, they have now created uncertainty in regard to the brucellocis and tuberculosis campaign. Honourable members opposite are the people who are causing mischief in the country. This will become known and understood before any election campaign can possibly get under way from this point on. This mischief is causing serious doubts among leaders of the farm industry. 
We have heard of the proposal to introduce a program for the elimination of weevils from wheat. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  had never at any stage given an undertaking to take this proposal on board. At a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council he was asked to give such an undertaking and he answered: 
I cannot give you that undertaking because this is a matter which will have to go before Federal Cabinet. 
He said that he appreciated the opportunity to spell that out. The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation - egged on by the Country Party - refused to allow inspectors on to properties to inspect stored wheat on the farm. I put it to you,  Mr Speaker:  How can any infestation program, a program designed to eliminate the activities of weevils, work if a great proportion of the wheat crop cannot be seen by the inspectors, the people who are involved in the elimination of weevils? This condition alone was enough to destroy the credibility of that campaign. The Country Party's position in regard to the meat industry has been enough to destroy its credibility. It is almost now as low as it was when it was in government. 
We see yet another attack on a very useful innovation introduced by this Government, and that is the opportunity for industry groups to put their point of view to the Government and to hear the point of view that is being placed by other industrial groups. That opportunity was given to the farm industry for the first time by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices which was looking into meat prices. Now the Country Party has chosen to use that Committee as a vehicle for short term political advantage. Naturally the Government must seriously consider whether it will revert to the confidential manner of obtaining advice by the use of interdepartmental committees on which industry groups could not get the opportunity to put their point of view let alone hear the point of view of other industry groups and the evidence on which government might come to a decision. This behaviour in regard to the Prices Committee inquiring into meat prices has attacked the very basis on which this Government has established its open government and the very basis on which it has given industry groups the opportunity to approach government and to put their points of view. 
The stupidity of such behaviour has been motivated by the blind fury of these people. 
In a mindless attack on the Government, the Opposition has become abusive. It has made mistakes and it has revealed the basic weakness that caused it to lose government. The Oppostion fails to do its homework, lt is negative. It has opposed off-shore legislation, assistance to local government and isolated children's grants. What positive policies does the Opposition have? Opposition members accuse us of being anti-social. Let the farmers hear it. Let the farmers remember the wheat stabilisation schemes and all the other price stabilisation programs and the Australian Wheat Board. Let the farmers remember that these people on the opposite side of this House condemn us because they say we are socialists. 

 Mr TURNER (Bradfield)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I withdraw,  Mr Speaker. 
We address ourselves now to the Bill setting up the Australian Industries Assistance Commission. The Bill has been based on a report prepared by  Sir John  Crawford. I believe that  Sir John  Crawford is one of the most astute public servants this country has produced. I had the great pleasure and honour to work with  Sir John  Crawford on a previous report that he prepared. I would like to put the record straight in regard to what the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said. He said that in preparing this report  Sir John  Crawford was proscribed. The honourable member indicated in his comment that he did not understand the man.  Sir John  Crawford has his own way of displaying his support or otherwise for the material that he prepares. On the first page of the report, he ends his letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  by saying: 
While enjoying the help of all people ... I wish in fairness to them to stress that the conclusions and recommendations of this report are solely my responsibility. 
Where else could we get stronger support for the report than in  Sir John  Crawford (Quorum formed) I thank the Opposition for the audience. I notice that there are still only 5 members of the Opposition on the other side of the House. When I was interrupted I was making the point that far from being proscribed  Sir John  Crawford gave his enthusiastic support to this report that he prepared for the Government. On page 13 of the report he puts his personal view on a set of arguments which are crucial to the report. He states: 
I strongly support these arguments and believe that, they establish an unanswerable case for public scrutiny. 
If a man who does not support the sentiments contained in his report writes that sort of statement into it, we are faced with a peculiar kind of logic. In fact that particular reference relates to the fundamental purpose of this report, and that is to allow public scrutiny of the processes whereby the Government determines the different amounts of assistance given to different industries. This is a part of the ongoing process of open government under Labor - a process which is foreign to the Opposition, which has raised ali sorts of concepts which it cannot understand or accommodate itself to. 
Let us consider exactly the need for this sort of commission. Currently we have tariffs on imports that are estimated at $3, 300m a year, direct payments to rural manufacturing, mining and other industries of $402m a year, promotion and research payments of $37m a year, and revenue foregone varies up to $282m depending on the financial year - a grand sum of 54,02 lm worth of protection in the Australian economy. Surely it is obvious to anybody that from time to time this sort of protection needs to be adjusted in the light of changes in the economy. Surely it is obvious that this sort of adjustment needs to be exposed to public scrutiny, which is the basic purpose of this report and on which  Sir John  Crawford has given his unqualified personal support. 
There are 3 reasons which have been set forward for this particular approach to assistance. First, it will assist in allocating the national resources. Secondly, the Commission will provide disinterested advice on these matters. Thirdly, it will facilitate the public scrutiny of policy. The Board has an advisory role, not an executive role. Therein, I think, lies a fundamental difference that the Australian Country Party has failed to understand not only here, not only since we have been in government in other places but also while it was in government. It failed to make the distinction between rational advice taken on a completely objective basis, giving all the parties involved the opportunity to put their point of view, .and the policy decision. There is indeed a fundamental distinction which it is vital to make if we are to have a properly founded policy and sensible government. 
This report recommends quite strongly - a recommendation taken up in the Act - that the Commission should have a purely advisory role and not an executive role or policy role. This Government is increasingly making public inquiries, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his speech on the matter, providing public scrutiny and making public reports as a basis for major policy decisions. How important this is. Once again I refer to  Sir John  Crawford. He says on page 12 of his report that the parties to such conflicts of interest which arise whenever we consider a question of protection may equally well be represented in argument and discussion under this Commission program. Those likely to gain directly from a particular measure such as tariff or subsidy will tend to be more concentrated, organised and articulate and those likely to lose from the measure are likely to be less well organised and less articulate. Naturally, without such an open inquiry as this Commission will conduct those minority groups will not get the opportunity of putting their point of view. In fact, such groups may be indeed the majority of the community who do not realise that their economic base is being slowly eroded away by disproportionate protection for individual vested interest groups. It is for that reason that this proposal deserves the highest praise and support and I am very pleased to see that it has that support from the Liberal Party. 
There are problems. There will be many problems. We heard earlier tonight a reference to the Vernon Committee report. The Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies  at the time, made it quite clear that he was not prepared at that time to accept the sort of recommendation that this report represents. If I recall his words correctly, he said: 'We cannot give the opportunity to criticise policy to a group which does not have responsibility'. There is no question that government becomes vulnerable once we establish a research group or fact finding group which has independence. It becomes vulnerable because the group will be well informed in its own specialist area. But the price we pay for protecting government from this sort of criticism is a sluggish economy and policy that is not properly based and researched. This price is far too high for a sophisticated economy to pay. It is high time we set aside these petty protection mechanisms, to the Government's good name and reputation. It is high time we turned the hard glare of the public gaze and the maximum amount of research possible on to the policies of governments. There is no doubt that there will be problems in this respect. The present Government, I am proud to say, is prepared to accept that consequence and live with the problems it creates. It is also difficult in this situation to facilitate the basic objective of the report, that is, to disseminate the information that is required to come back from the public or to go to it, depending on the direction of transfer. 
We have seen recently in regard to the meat prices inquiry a classic example of people shooting from the hip. The public process of refining policy in the eyes of all the media and in the eyes of all the groups involved and interested in the meat industry resulted in the Government being accused of making decisions before that process of discussion and dissemination had been completed. There is no question that while ever there is such a petty approach to the question of policy making as we have seen displayed by the Australian Country Party this sort of criticism will continue, this sort of shooting from the hip will continue and this sort of mis-statement will continue. Once again we find the Country Party basing its facts on half-truths. Its facts are half-facts. Let me give honourable members an example. The Leader of the Australian Country Party in hinting that the Prime Minister and the Commission would have a secret tete-a-tete - that the information between the two would come across secretly - quoted from the Crawford report which says that all directions to the Commission and advice by the Commission to the Government should be through the Prime Minister or the Minister designated by him. The Leader of the Opposition made great play of the idea- 
The Leader of the second most important Opposition Party made the point that the best qualified Ministers would not be a party to this process. He deliberately misquoted that quotation which begins by saying that all communication between the Government and the Commission on matters of importance should be public. The Leader of the Opposition must think we are fools to misquote from a report which we all have before us. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I would suggest that the honourable gentleman refer to the Leader of the Country Party as the Leader of the Country Party. 
I am sorry. My apologies to the Leader of the Opposition. 
That is right. These half truths and these distortions of fact are the reason for the lack of credibility suffered by the previous Government. While ever we have policy which is not based on research, which is not based on facts and which is not given public exposure there can be no question but that it will not be successful and that it will discriminate against important minority groups within our community. The spirit of this report is the objective to overcome that form of discrimination and to develop and evolve properly based policies. The rewards of this report will be just that, that is, that we will get proper policies and we will avoid the sorts of contradictions which  Sir John  Crawford illustrated in his report. 

 Sir John Crawford referred to a situation which often occurs in our economy in which we encourage an industry by direct subsidies and discourage the same industry by tariffs on its inputs. What absurdities we lead ourselves into when we do not take an overall view of the web of economic relationships which exists in our community. Each economic decision has its ramifications and builds up into a significant position for the most unlikely sections of the community. Without the sort of comprehensive approach that this Commission represents we will have one problem after another. It was because we had sectional interests being represented in different ways under the Country Party's leadership that we had so many problems, that we had so much dissension, that we had the agricultural community complaining about the level of tariff protection given to secondary industry and that we have the public at large misunderstanding the basis on which assistance is to be given to agriculture within the confines of this Commission, where all the economic parameters will be considered, there will be a better understanding of not only our agricultural community but also all those other sections of our economy which from time to time require assistance. These interrelationships between one economic decision and another are far too vast and great for any member of Parliament or, indeed, for any economist or any individual to grasp. I believe it is important that we develop, in conjunction with this Commission, properly based inputoutput studies. We have computers, we have the expertise, we have the academics who are so sorely criticised by the Country Party who can make their contributions to this wider appreciation of the ramifications of change in the economy. It is in this Commission that we will be able to develop that expertise and bring to the community a greater understanding of each of the economic decisions as they are made. 
Another misquotation by the Leader of the Country Party in addressing himself to this report was the idea that the report will cover inflation, employment and all those short term economic management measures which are necessary from time to time. This report specifically excludes those measures from its considerations. In his speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  specifically excluded those issues from the consideration of the Commission. A very important distinction has been made in the terms of reference of the Commission. It is to look at resource allocation, an area which has received no systematic study, at least in the government area, in the past. It is vital that we have a systematic approach to resource allocation, and the distinction between that approach to economics and the short term measures that are necessary to alleviate unemployment or to stem inflation or in any other way to manage the economy on a day to day basis, are quite correctly not the prerogative of this report. 
In a sense, this report is concerned with the base of our economy, and a better understanding of that base will lead to a better management of the economy. It is the enlightenment that will flow from this report which will be of assistance in the short term management of our economy. It is incredible that the Leader of the Country Party should have either misunderstood it, misread it or tried to deceive this House on this vital distinction which was emphasised not only in the report but also by the Prime Minister in his speech on the matter. 
He is the member for rural poverty, as my very close compatriot, the honourable member for Macarthur has just informed me. Some case could be made out to justify that title. Many of the statements made by the Leader of the Country Party were a clear vote of no confidence in the integrity of the people who will be running this Commission. We can perhaps understand his concern if we recollect the circumstances that existed just before the election. The credibility of the economic policy of the Country Party was in tatters. Any rational statement about the state of the economy at that time would have sounded like criticism. Indeed statements from the Tariff Board near the end of the previous Government's reign - statements that would have stood the study of any objective economist - did sound like criticism. That, no doubt, is why the Leader of the Country Party is so sensitive to the power of the new Com mission. It was not a question of the public servants involved in the Commission lacking integrity or in any way were politically biased; it was a question of their 'being' objective and rational. That is what the Leader of the Country Party objects to. Indeed, the rationale of much of what he said today can be explained away only if we use that explanation. 
Another illustration that the Leader of the Country Party used to condemn this report was the situation that existed in the wool industry just 18 months ago. Once again, this situation was a short term economic position which this Commission had no charter to cover. The situation arose within a matter of months and had to be resolved very quickly. The crisis was over before this Commission could have brought its attention to bear on the issue. Adequate provision has been made in the legislation to cope with exactly that situation, t the time, it was not considered by any formal mechanism in the Government. It was considered by the appropriate departments as, indeed, it will be considered in the future. The Leader of the Country Party complained: What right of appeal will these industries have?' I leave the House with the question: What right of appeal did they have before?' 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  picked fairly peripherally on 2 issues in his criticism of this very important statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He made a point of the idea that products and processes were moving from Japan to Australia. He criticised the Minister's statement on the ground that there was no demonstration of such a movement. Obviously he has not heard of the processes which are taking place in regard to the longest commodity trade relationship which we have with Japan, and that commodity is wool. The Japanese top makers are now moving in a very material way into this country. In fact, they have invested money in a top making mill at Orange. We can expect to see similar things happen with minerals in the various intermediate stages of processing in that industry as our relationship in this area develops. Again the honourable member for Berowra criticised the statement in the Minister's report of his overseas trip about the enterprise systems of the developed world being noncompetitive. Has the honourable member for Berowra forgotten, for example, that the European Economic Community has erected an incredibly high tariff barrier against the products of our farmlands here? Has he forgotten that the United States has had a tariff on wool for some time which discriminates against this very important export product of this country? These are tangible demonstrations of the credibility of the 2 statements in the Minister's report. 
This statement by the Minister is, in many ways, an historic document. It opens vast and natural markets for Australia in Asia. In particular the statement establishes a strong basis for our General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade negotiations. It outlines our trade relations with Japan, South and North Korea and China. The historic visit of an Australian Minister to the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea opened new trade possibilities. Under this Government our trade has been based on the fact that efficiency in trade depends on a competitive environment. It is ironic almost that we should be subject to criticism from the Opposition benches of a doctrine which they themselves claim is a very integral part of their economic philosophy. 
It is ironic that this is the first government in 23 years which has, in fact, introduced real competition into both the external and internal economic mechanisms of our economy. This statement sets out a clear enunciation of our trading relationships with other countries, the basis on which our GATT negotiations are being conducted, a free trading position and a reduction in tariffs which is not just lip service. We go to these negotiations with a 25 per cent across the board reduction in tariffs. This is an historic action on the part of a government of Australia. We go there with a strong dollar because we were prepared to face up to the very difficult task of bringing the value of the Australian dollar into line with the realities of the world. We go there with a concern for the developing countries, recognising that a selforientated economy, a selfish approach towards these negotiations would, in the long term, be self-defeating and certainly antisocial. 
No nation among the hundred represented at the GATT conference in Tokyo has anywhere near the record which this country has. We have established for ourselves a strong bargaining position for negotiating long term contracts for most of our commodities. Australia is indeed moving in the direction of currency values and tariff cuts set by GATT as an aim for all countries. We have adjusted our currencies. We have reduced our tariffs. These are facts. The performance speaks for itself now. We have not set quotas on exports nor taxed meat exports as the Minister told the Australian Farmers Federation today. Our record in trading is sound. In many ways the statement which we have just heard from the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  typifies the sort of uncertainty which is introduced into our trading relationships. Mischievous statements have been made from the Opposition which purport not only to represent the Government's position but also to predict what the Government will do before the Government itself has the proper information on which it can come to a judgment. 
We find that people in the Opposition such as the honourable member for Paterson base their analysis on newspaper reports. They are misinformed. They fail to analyse the situation. They fail to read quite straightly and correctly statements such as the one we are now discussing. The agreement to sell wheat to China is the best ever negotiated by an Australian 
Government. It applies for only 3 years because of uncertainties created by the Opposition and because of its insistent criticism of the countries and governments of South East Asia. Its tendency to go to war with those countries at the drop of a hat naturally created uncertainty in the minds of the governments of those countries when they were negotiating long term contracts. Asia provides for the rural industries of Australia one of the most exciting and dramatic markets of the future. The Minister's tour through Asia has helped to consolidate this market for the future for the farmers and citizens of Australia. I commend the statement to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bury)  adjourned. 
I wish to place on record my absolute confidence in and high regard for the teachers in my electorate. I shall make absolutely certain that the low level of regard held for those teachers by the Opposition is made well known to them. I rise to make one point- 
I make one point alone. 
We have heard the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)- 
The honourable member for Maranoa and others have complained that the present policy of this Government on education discriminates against children who attend boarding schools. Let me place on record what has been done. This Government recognised for the first time the unique and special problem that exists in educating children from isolated areas. It was this Government which for the first time provided money in respect of those children. Between $300 and $1,000 is being paid in respect of each of those children. The Liberal-Country Party Government of New South Wales - a government of the same colour as honourable members opposite who rise and say that our Government has taken money from the hands of children who go to boarding schools - immediately the grant for isolated children was made available, withdrew the payment of $80 a year which it made in respect of those children. Who is taking money from the children who must leave isolated areas to attend boarding schools? The LiberalCountry Party Government in New South Wales withdrew $80 a year in respect of each child in that category because this Labor Government had taken on the responsibility of meeting this dire need. 
But it did not only that. In Cooma, there is a hostel for these children. The moment that this assistance was paid by the Australian Government, the fees at that hostel were raised by the New South Wales Government by exactly that amount that was provided as base level assistance, $300. This is an example of money being taken from those children who must leave their homes and attend boarding school. We do not need to look very far for tangible evidence of this in the actions of the Liberal-Country Party Government which dominates New South Wales. Who else does? It has all authority. The Liberal-Country Party Government in that State is the one which has withdrawn money from children attending boarding schools. That is the only point I make. I make it and withdraw from the debate. 
I thank the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  for his compliment in regard to my work in the field of the objective measurement of wool. I should also like to return the compliment and acknowledge the fact that he indeed has made a major contribution to the acceptance of this development and in this we have a common cause. The money allocated over the last 2 years for objective measurement was for the specific purpose of developing the techniques and refining them and bringing them to the point where they could be applied in the commercial stream. In fact, in the main, that has been done and the work that must be done now is for the industry to accept these developments and the machinery that has been evolved. I believe that process is going on now. I feel quite strongly that if money were needed to continue this development, it would be forthcoming from this Government. 
The Department of Primary Industry whose estimates we are now considering administers 88 Acts of direct concern to primary industry and is involved in a further 30 Acts of indirect concern to the industry and which are administered by other departments. The scope of these Acts is vast. It covers a large range of industries and different functions. Currently, the present Government has under review a number of policy areas in relation to primary industry. We are concerned about the basis of rural credit. We believe that the credit facilities for the agricultural sector should be uniquely geared to the problems of that sector. We believe that there should be a long term facility available to the farmer and that the repayment of these loans should be specially dovetailed into his particular productive process If one wanted to select one or two areas for comment, this is especially true for the fishing industry where the fishermen have been denied not only the opportunity for credit which is geared to their unique problem but also a unique form of insurance for their boats. Once again, I should like to support the comments of the honourable member for Corangamite in regard to the increased payment to the States for fisheries services. Much more should be done for this industry. 
Another area which is under review by the present Government is that of the financing of research funds. We have seen in the past an instability introduced into an area where stability is required if we are to achieve the maximum in terms of the application of our research worker. It is not satisfactory to have research geared to the fluctuations of industry income and this Government currently is involved in looking very closely at ways and means of financing research from a much more stable basis. We also have under review the wheat industry stabilisation scheme, wool marketing and indeed all forms of marketing. A new marketing section has been proposed for the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Having worked for the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, I should like to dwell for a moment on this section which under the estimates is to collect $2.9m. The BAE has been an extremely successful advisory group for government and its success rests on the fact that it is an objective fact finding organisation. The quality of its work depends upon the independence which has been given to the workers within the BAE. Because those workers do have an independence in their areas of operation and are able to publish their reports freely, the BAE has been able to attract a high quality of research worker - people who find great satisfaction from their work in this organisation. I should like to contrast the basis of the success of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics with the philosophy expounded for the Industries Assistance Commission. In fact, the philosophy is the same. It is ironic that members of the Australian Country Party should attack the Industries Assistance Commission when they already have before them the success record of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It is no coincidence that  Sir John  Crawford played a significant role in the formation of both organisations. The only area in which the BAE has had any restraint placed on its opportunity to publish has been in regard to land use reports and particularly those which relate to irrigation projects. I am sure that we would have had a much saner balance of investment in irrigation if those reports had also been given the freedom of publication that most other reports produced by the BAE received. 
The approach of the Australian Country Party to the Industries Assistance Commission opens up the question of whether the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, if we continue this analysis, should be placed under restriction. This is one area which has received a great deal of thought and consideration by various Ministers over the years. Invariably the answer that has been produced is that rather than restrict the operations of this group it should be opened up even further. I am pleased to say that that conclusion has generally been supported by most of the Ministers involved. Therefore one experiences some surprise from the fact that the Country Party has adopted this approach to the Industries Assistance Commission. In other words, investigation so far as assistance is concerned should be concealed and industries should be denied the opportunity of putting their point of view. 
One manifestation of this approach already has been displayed by the Country Party in its objection to the 0.6c export tax placed on export meat in order to conduct a campaign to eradicate tuberculosis and brucellosis. The opposition to this tax was based on a mistake made in the office of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  We have the ludicrous situation now of such a superficial approach and such a casual mistake throwing into question the whole tuberculosis and brucellosis campaign. The mistake which came from the office of the honourable member for New England arose from the fact that there had been confusion between carcass weight and export weight. The Country Party members, the doyens of the country, these men of the land, who believe they know every subtlety in regard to the country have mistaken carcass weight, which is the weight of the beast slaughtered with the bones, with the export weight which, in the main, is the beast minus the bones. Because of this mistake and the inability to understand an elementary fact of agriculture, the tuberculosis and brucellosis campaign in this country is being thrown into great question and is causing great concern to our overseas buyers. 
I am making a point for the benefit of those people in the country who are so critical of the academics. Any one of a Country Party member's constituents who wishes to have his children educated will get roughly a lead from this. The point I am making is that the Country Party could not carry out the simplest piece of arithmetic. It has mixed carcass weight with export weight and then accused the Government of attempting to extract from the meat industry more money than was necessary to carry out the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaign. But the Country Party mistake has led to a situation where there is less money than necessary to carry out this campaign. 
I am glad- 
I am glad to have the opportunity 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has made one or two comments which I think need to be answered before I begin to discuss the content of this Bill and its implications for wheat research. First of all, the proposition in regard to the Australian Government's involvement in the program for eliminating weevils from wheat was never agreed to by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  as I illustrated recently by quoting from the minutes of the appropriate meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. He has at all times qualified the Australian Government's involvement in this program by the need for Cabinet approval. 
The second aspect which should be borne in mind is that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation placed a condition on this program, which made it extremely difficult to initiate. That condition was that inspectors involved in the eradication program could not enter private farms in order to inspect stocks of wheat held on the farms. Quite clearly, if we are to eliminate weevils from the national wheat crop it is ludicrous to expect this job to be done if a fairly substantial proportion of the crop cannot be approached by the people who are carrying out the eradication of the weevils. If weevils are being generated in farm held stocks, a great deal of money will be wasted on a national program to eliminate weevils. It is quite obvious that we need to have an opportunity to approach those wheat stocks. The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation was not prepared to give the inspectors that opportunity. 
I agree. 
This is quite so. We are in complete agreement on this matter. It is quite clear that a national program could not operate unless we were able to cover every grain of wheat stored. 
This Bill applies to wheat research. A tax is proposed to be collected to finance wheat research. A summary of the research that was conducted last year is contained in the 15th annual report on wheat research for the year ended 31 December 1972. A very interesting range of subjects will be financed by this money: Firstly, as to the environment in which the wheat is grown - namely, the soil itself - moisture, organic matter, nitrogen content, microbiology and nutrients within the soil which are required for the adequate production of wheat. That fascinating range of subjects involves a great many disciplines. It is clear that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation - this is reflected also in the report - plays a very dominant role in this research. In 1972-73, $193,000 in a total expenditure of $800,000 on wheat research was spent by the CSIRO. It is also encouraging to note that other organisations are so deeply involved in research; namely, the various State departments of agriculture, the universities and the Bread Research Institute in New South Wales. 
As I have mentioned in regard to soil research, a great range of disciplines is involved. The only way in which we can get a productive outlet is through research. If we look down the list of the fields of research we find such things as plant physiology and plant breeding - to which the honourable member for Corangamite referred in his speech - and then we come to an aspect which I believe deserves a great deal of attention, namely, wheat quality. The prelude to a proper marketing system is a proper classification system. It is important to understand the parameters and properties of wheat, or any other commodity for that matter, in a detailed way. If we pay a great deal of attention to the analysis and composition of individual wheats, we are in a better position to exploit the unique advantages those wheats have for particular markets. 
Also protein. Many properties of wheat, which at the moment we do not suspect as having an economic value, will in the future become more important as the wheat consumer becomes more discriminating. Therefore, it is important that a wheat producing country such as Australia should have a greater understanding of the quality, range and potential of its wheat product than the consuming countries have. It must be in a position to meet the buyer ahead of the buyer's requirements. So wheat quality, which in a sens: becomes the basis of a classification system, deserves a great deal of attention. It is no longer satisfactory in a sophisticated marketing system to depend upon a basis of fair average quality or any other quality for describing wheat. We have a very good demonstration - the honourable member for Corangamite agrees with me on this - in relation to wool. The wool industry which is the traditional industry in this country was prepared to sell wool at an f.a.q. standard for so long. It was only in recent years when we approached the whole question of wool marketing from the point of view of understanding its composition, and then directing those unique batches of wool towards unique end uses that we were in a position to capitalise to a greater extent on the virtues of specialised products. The idea that any commodity, particularly wheat, produced on such a wide scale and subject to such a huge variety of environments, the idea that we are producing one commodity and one commodity alone, just does not stand up to examination. We have traditionally used wheat in the way that is suggested by this basic premise that in fact there is only one type, only one quality, with broad classifications - hard and soft wheat. Clearly the research into wheat quality can be, and I believe almost certainly will be, the prelude to a much more sophisticated marketing system for wheat which will extract the last possible cent for the wheat grower. Ironically, this particular knowledge does not blossom until conditions are bad for the producer. Under those conditions he is then in a position to exploit his ultimate knowledge of his product. In other words, he is able to get a monopoly for some wheats with a particular balance of qualities for some end uses where the Australian market has established its fundamental claim. 
He is thirsty. Let us face it; the man is thirsty. 

 Mc SPEAKER-Order! I will not permit private conversations. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro is addressing the Chair. 
The report then gives a very impressive list of research areas including wheat diseases, wheat storage, legume pasture studies, and then it deals with an area on which the honourable member for Corangamite concentrated in his speech - alternative crops in wheat growing areas. In this report, outlining the research that was done in this regard in 1972-73, is a separate paragraph headed Alternative Crops' deals with exactly this question. It reads: 
Research .is being supported into grain crops which can be grown in rotation with wheat or as alternative crops for wheat growing areas. The program is concerned with legume and oilseed crops and includes plant breeding and selection to develop varieties with improved yield, seed quality and disease resistance. 
Clearly the research into alternative crops, and in particular in relation to oilseeds, is already under way. As the honourable member for Corangamite emphasised, it is important to ensure that the wheat grower does indeed have an alternative crop iri a low priced wheat year; an alternative which will maintain his income at a reasonable level; an alternative which will allow him to include into his cycle of crops a crop which will enhance the capacity of the soil to produce a satisfactory wheat crop. Already in this program we have recognised the need - in the future I believe this will be so particulalry in regard to the State endeavour - to continue this research into alternative crops. 
I come now to research carried out into weeds. Again this is an obvious area for such funds to be used. I would like to conclude my contribution tonight by concentrating on 2 areas which I believe are extremely important. I refer, firstly, to the question of our contribution to research into agricultural economics in relation to wheat, and, secondly, the matter of studentship for the production of new research workers in the field. We have 2 areas of research which complement each other. One is the purely physical, chemical area of studies into wheat quality which lay the basic groundwork for wheat classification and, subsequently, a marketing system. The second area of study is the micro-economics of marketing. This area has been seriously neglected in the past, not only in relation to wool but also in relation to every other agricultural product. It is vitally important that we develop the area generally called micro-economics so far as agricultural economics is concerned, because it is in this area that we can develop the sensitive marketing mechanisms which give the grower, and therefore the seller, a much more powerful and much stronger bargaining position in the market, not because the Government imposes on the market some artificial restrain or some Draconian pressure but because we can impose on the market a better understanding of market requirements and use the market mechanisms to further the interests of the grower or the seller. So our very elementary knowledge of marketing of wheat - I now think that in some sense wheat is falling behind wool in this regard - requires a great deal of attention and a great deal of research effort. I am glad to see that this has been acknowledged in the past and will be continued in the future. Once again it is significant that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is developing a marketing section in order to obtain a better understanding of the marketing problems of wheat and other crops. 
I thank the Country Party for its intelligent contribution tonight. The emphasis that the funds place on the development of studentships of various types is extremely welcome. We need to increase the supply of research workers at all levels. The program allows for postgraduate and undergraduate studentships. These are being offered at all levels. Both cadetships and scholarships are being offered. In other words, we are sponsoring here not only the university graduates but also graduates at other levels, if I read the program correctly. 
It is extremely important that we do not get a disproportionate emphasis in our expenditure on studentships. Far too often we concentrate on the rarefied education of the university. It is important to have this but it is also important to ensure a good and adequate supply of technologists in this and other research areas. Too often we have had these 2 bodies of research - I level this as a criticism of research in the past - one completely fundamental and the other experienced with the knowledge of practical conditions. There is an important gap between these 2 areas which has been overlooked in the past, partly because we tend to finance research on too short a basis. It is impossible to get to the applied level of research if we finance research only on a hand to mouth basis. It is of vital concern that we bring together the fundamental research carried out by the scientists, particularly in the CSIRO and the universities, and the practical problems that are experienced by the farmers at that level. The way in which we can bridge this gap is by providing technological research. 
In the wheat industry, as indeed in almost every other aspect of research not only in agriculture, we find this incredible gap between the fundamental research workers and the practical problems of the man on the land. The solution to the problem is not only a matter of providing the technologists and the research workers; it is also a matter of providing those people who can interpret the results in a meaningful way for each of the groups involved in research. We lack the interpreters who can carry the message backwards and forwards between the farmer and the fundamental research worker. It is not just a matter of technologists who might work pardy in a laboratory and partly in industry - and again I would point to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which is making a major contribution in this area - but it is also a matter of the journalists and the whole multitude of people who act as interpreters in this process of taking research results to the farmer and the farmers' problems back to the research worker. We do not have a highly developed technical area of journalism in which journalists can understand either the results of the work of the research worker and then be in a position to interpret them for the farmer of the problems of the farmer and be able to define them in clear terms for the research worker. This question of applied research goes well beyond the laboratory. It becomes a question of communication. I would like to see these funds for wheat research applied to this particular area because of the neglect in the past of this question of communication. The legislation to which we are addressing ourselves tonight is a part of an ongoing research program with which this Government is proud to be associated. Not only that, but this Government will in fact enhance and increase the program as the Government's years in office continue. 
The Opposition has set its objections to this Bill on the ground, firstly, that in some areas it is vague in its definition and, secondly, it has not had time to consider the implications of the Bill. I shall deal firstly with the first point, which was covered by the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby)  in his second reading speech. He said: 
Legislation of this kind is concerned with economic considerations. There is a limit to the extent to which such considerations can be treated in legislation as legal concepts capable of being expressed with absolute precision. Such an approach leads to provisions which are complex in the extreme and give rise to more problems than they remove. 
This idea is then elaborated on by the Minister in his speech. In fact this is one of the problems that must confront people who draft such a Bill. Indeed this is not the only area in which there is difficulty in drafting a Bill which is precise in every specification. One of the fundamental differences in the philosophy of approach to these situations between the Opposition and the Government is that whereever we get the problem of precise definition regarding individual liberties the Bills drafted by the Opposition have tended to trample over individual liberties for the lack of a clearer, more precise definition of the powers written into the Bill. One could quote a number of Acts that affect individual liberties in which this principle of failing to define in precise terms the powers given in the legislation has been ignored in order to be able to proceed with some form of action. 
In the absence of precise definition in these economic areas we find that nothing is done. The record of the Opposition suggests that it will continue to frustrate, perhaps genuinely looking for a more precise definition of economic concepts which defy any legislative definition in such an Act. I take one or two examples. What is this 'unit of competition' to which we refer when we talk about monopoly and competition between different business enterprises? It seems that here we have to define this unit of competition in terms of an autonomous price-making group that is not influenced by and is completely independent of other price makers in the market. This is a Utopian definition. Quite clearly people in the same industry will share the same technology. They will share similar processes. They cannot be completely independent in the pricemaking environment which leads to their decision on price. The question whether we have an unusual degree of liaison between different price makers in the market clearly must be resolved in each different case. To anticipate the circumstances of each individual case would 'lead us into tedious definition which would always be subject to criticism. So leaving the question of definition of whether or not there is an unusual level of agreement between price makers in the market to an authority such as has been denned in this Bill is the only possible way by which we can make any progress. 
I ask honourable members to consider the position in a market where there is only one price maker. The only restraining influence on that price maker is the price the market will bear. There is no other way by which this price maker can be forced to reduce his price. If on the selling side of the equation another competitor is introduced we find that the first or monopoly pricing situation has been moderated because the first price maker has to take into consideration the price established by the independent price maker who has now entered the market. However there is still a large margin of price left on which both can capitalise. The market price is such that sometimes the seller is prepared to pay more than the economic processes would dictate. 
In this case where we have 2 price makers in the market we still have a dangerous situation in which they can capitalise on the price the market will bear. In fact the temptation for these two to collude and come to some form of price agreement is very high because the basis for their agreement is necessarily narrow. They share only a few differences in approach. As the number of sellers in the market increases this ability to tax from the market the price the market will bear also narrows. It is absurd to claim, as the Leader of the Opposition has claimed, that there is no connection between restrictive trade practices and inflation. Clearly where a large number of sellers are operating from independent pricing mechanisms they are incapable, as the number grows, of taxing the market in terms of taking the price the market will bear. Obviously there is a close association between the number of sellers in a market - the number of price makers in the market - and the price they charge in relation to what the market will bear. 
There is another important aspect of this matter of competition which cannot be covered, by definition, in the sort of legislation we are now considering. I refer to the matter of innovation. In the main the well-established industries have established a technology and production process which is common to each of the producers in that industry. They share this technology. The innovator naturally will contribute to the efficiency of the industry. How general this contribution will be will depend first on his own share of the total market and, secondly, how quickly the innovation spreads through the market. 
We can find plenty of examples of traditional industries where the innovator has been shut out, and the restrictive trade practice is not so much the fact that innovation has been restricted to one particular section of the market as that it has been restricted to the total market, because agreement has been reached between the sellers in the market not to allow other practices to enter into the market. There are many illustrations of this in the Australian scene. No better illustration can be found than in the wool selling area where for 100 years selling brokers systematically prohibited methods of selling other than the ones they themselves adopted. This clearly was a restrictive market practice which one could not anticipate in legislation such as this. The spirit of this was captured by the Minister for Secondary Industry in his second reading speech. 
We also heard from the Leader of the Opposition that there is a contradiction between the Trade Practices Act and the protection commission. The implication was that one can achieve efficiency only if there is a large-scale operation. Clearly the Leader of the Opposition has been misled by concentrating on one particular aspect of the competitive mechanism - the economies of scale which flow to the large-scale operator. Of course it is a corollary almost without exception that the large-scale operator ceases to be an innovator. The bureaucracy within the organisation becomes too large to change overnight to introduce innovation. The practice that becomes traditional is the easiest one to adopt so it is not necessarily true that efficiency runs with the large-scale operator. The contradiction that the Leader of the Opposition pointed to is an exception rather than the rule and I do not see that such a contradiction should frustrate the progress of this Bill. 
On these 2 issues the Opposition has put forward proposals to frustrate the Bill. This smacks of procrastination because neither of the issues cannot be resolved nor are they too particular in their effect to deserve too much time and consideration. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  referred to the clause relating to discriminatory dealing and, in typical Country Party fashion, misinterpreted the whole implication of the clause. He claimed that supply at the same price would not result in a lowering of prices. I should like the House to consider for a moment this clause - clause 49. Subclause (1) of the clause reads: 
A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, directly or indirectly discriminate between different purchasers of goods of like grade and quality in relation to - 
the prices charged for the goods; 
the provision of services or facilities in respect of the goods; or 
the making of payments for services or facilities provided in respect of the goods. 
In this legislation one supplier is being asked to supply at the same price to each of the purchasers of that particular commodity. Quite clearly if the same supplier charges different prices, given the same circumstances in regard to suppliers, there will be discrimination against those purchasers who purchase the article at a higher level than somebody else in the spectrum of the purchasing group. The clause specifically excludes those economic circumstances which justify a change in prices. The question of quantity is dealt with in one of the exclusions. If large scale purchases which lead to economies of scale within the producers' operation are made, the benefit of that, according to this Bill, can be legally passed on to the purchaser. Secondly any transport costs whether they be cost advantages or disadvantages in relation to different purchases, are also excluded in this part of the Bill. 
To say as the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party did that variations of price within one supplier would have a disinflationary effect is to miss the point that this is in fact a discriminatory action against the purchasers. It would have no effect on inflation whatsoever. It would lead to a position where the supplier by excluding a number of purchasers puts itself into a stronger competitive bargaining position in terms of the retail market. Those are one or two examples of the arguments raised by the Opposition to justify this Bill being held up yet again. Generally we should think about the backdrop in which this Bill has come into this House and the time that has been given not only in this country but in other countries to consideration of the problems dealt with by this Bill. Surely it is now time for us in Australia to accept the consequences of the distilled wisdom that has gone into the formulation of this Bill and to become active about it instead of procrastinating and waiting still more years until a Bill is introduced to deal with the problem. 
To illustrate this point I refer to a speech made by the Minister for Secondary Industry on 5 May 1971 in respect of the previous trade practices legislation introduced by the then government. He quoted Professor Richardson, the Dean of the Law School at the Australian National University. He said: 
Compared with the original Barwick plan, the Bill appears as a compromise yielding ground to various commercial and political interests. 
He was referring to the legislation of the previous Government. He continued: 
In particular, bilateral agreements no longer have to be registered and several types of bilateral agreement, such as an agreement between a buyer and seller fixing the retail price of goods supplied, have been withdrawn from the proposed Federal control. The list of practices bad in themselves and therefore unlawful has been reduced from 4 to 2. The penalties attaching to parties failing to register a registrable agreement are less severe than originally contemplated and the proposed register of restrictive practices will not be open to public inspection. 
This is in contradistinction to the present Act where the secrecy has now been removed in all but the most important areas so far as individual companies are concerned. He continued: 
The Government has also abandoned its projected control of mergers. These modifications will no doubt make the Bill more digestible in some business circles and sections of the political Parties of the Federal Government. 
He was referring to the Federal Government of the day. Clearly at that stage the implications that have been taken up in this Bill had been considered by the then Government. For its own reasons it rejected them. We now introduce many of these measures because in the light of experience they have become more relevant than ever before. The Bill that we have to consider now makes restrictive trade practices unlawful. This becomes the starting point rather than leaving the interpretations of the legality of trade practices to administrative discretion. We have established a basis in law. Prior to this it was necessary for interpretations from the administrative arm of government to be placed on each case. 
We have heard complaint from the Opposition today that this Bill transfers a great deal of power to the legal and administrative arms of our decision making processes. The previous Bill did not, in fact, establish a legal position. It simply required the registration of trade agreements on which an administrative decision would then be made. The starting point now is that restrictive trade practices are unlawful. This is clearly the most proper base from which to establish a position of judgment. A clearance from the Trade Practices Commission can be sought case by case in respect of exclusive dealing and mergers that do not come within the prohibitions because they do not substantially lessen competition. 
The whole spirit of this Bill is to maintain competition in the market place and to maintain competition in the innovation processes which increase our productivity over all. It is ironic that this debate should be taking place within the background of the traditional political affiliations. One of the problems that the Opposition seems to confront is that it has failed to identify that the economic mechanisms associated with monopolies and cartels are very little different from the economic mechanisms associated with a nationalised industry. The Opposition cannot defend one without defending the other. It cannot oppose one without opposing the other. The position of maximum competition in many senses is unstable. It is a position which is transitionary from one of cut-throat competition, where practices are introduced into the market place which are not in the interests of either the producers or the consumers, to a position of agreements and cartels and monopolisation. 
In order to preserve the optimum position of competition we need a watchdog. We need a rule maker in the competitive mechanism. The Bill before us is one step towards establishing that watchdog and a set of rules within the game in which competition can be used to maximise the productivity of our economic mechanisms for the community at large. It has to be an impartial rule maker. It has to be somebody standing on the sidelines, given the guidelines that are established in such a Bill. It is a difficult situation in which to arbitrate because, as I have mentioned, the optimum competition which exists in the market place appears to me at least to be transitionary in nature 'and the economic mechanisms are not stabilising at that point. The most stable economic position in the market place is indeed a monopoly or a cartel. Of course, that is because there is exploitation at that level for one party. 
The Bill provides an escape mechanism in which the trade practices can be authorised subject to time limits and the public interest. 
As I have mentioned already, secrecy ceases to be a feature of the new legislation. The benefits will have to justify the authorisation. The public benefit becomes extremely important in making this judgment. The optimisation of productivity for the community as a whole becomes the hallmark of the legislation. I submit that to oppose this Bill at this time and to frustrate the introduction of this Bill is to consolidate further the position of monopolies and cartels within our community at a time when it has long since become apparent that they militate against the general welfare of the community. It is far better to accept a Bill, admittedly with difficulties in interpretation, to control these groups rather than to wait 2, 3, 4 or, if the Opposition's reputation in government is anything to go by, 23 years before anything is done. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a statement by the  Chairman  of Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Ltd in which he announced a profit of $9. 4m for the past year and anticipates another satisfactory result for 1973-74? In view of this profit level and the security obtained by long term contracts negotiated by this Government, does the criticism by  Sir Norman  Giles of the Government's attitude towards the rural industries suggest some inconsistencies on his part? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When is it expected that construction of the Yennora wool village will be completed. 
How many bales of wool were handled at Yennora during the 1971-72 and 1972-73 seasons. 
How many bales are expected to be handled in each of the seasons 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
I rise to address myself to the oft-quoted fallacy that a number of country seats held by the Government are threatened by the Opposition. A report in the New South Wales publication Country Life' on 31 October 1973 suggested that 6 Government-held seats were in such serious danger. I am pleased to say that my seat was one of those included in this extravagant misapprehension. I find myself in good company, of course. The seat held by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  was another threatened by such danger, and others were the seats held by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  my friend the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  and the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Olley). 
The facts are that in my own electorate, and I can speak only for my own electorate on this matter, the Opposition spokesmen are acting like demented people. They have no positive proposals to offer the electorate. They are now sketching out in greater detail, especially after last night's performance, an image of petty obstructionism. What member of the electorate is going to ponder on the finer points on which so much time was wasted last night in the face of the reality that an absolute majority existed for the Bill then under consideration? What sort of electoral impact will be made here except one of petty obstructionism? Far more importantly, opposition has been directed at those issues and policies that are of direct benefit to my electorate. 
Imagine the embarrassment of Opposition spokesmen as they try to convince the fishermen of the South Coast that opposition to off-shore legislation will be to the benefit of the fishing industry of Eden-Monaro. Imagine the embarrassment of Opposition spokesmen as they try to convince local government that opposition to Australian Government assistance to local government is in the interests of the community at large. Not only does one find that access to the Australian Loan Council is being denied to local government by Opposition spokesmen, but also the whole approach to the Grants Commission is being frustrated by those spokesmen in my electorate. What possible appeal can this have to the electors of Eden-Monaro? 
Not only that. Now the Opposition is denying teacher and parent representation on the Schools Commission. What appeal can this possibly have to the parents in my electorate? What appeal can the criticism of the Opposition, particularly of those on my near right as I stand in this House, have when they quite scatchingly condemn me as an academic? Academic - Oh, it is a disgusting thing to be! Yet most of the parents in my electorate devote a great deal of time and energy in order that their children can have the benefit of tertiary education. I note from the comments made by honourable members on the other side of the House exactly what the opinion of the Opposition is on this sort of education. What sort of impression are they creating? It is a wonderful impression as far as Labor members who hold country seats are concerned. 
Then we have this incredible atmosphere, which has made the job of the Opposition spokesman that much more difficult in the past few weeks, in relation to the isolated children's grant. Their colleagues in the States felt so deeply about the problem of the education of isolated children that in response to the Australian Government's grant they withdrew State assistance of just on $80. That is indicative of the sort of situation that exists in my electorate. What possible grounds are there for assuming that this electorate is threatened by people with such a negative, anti-social approach to the problems of the community? Not only this, but we find that the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, has been parading recently seeking a mandate from the electorate which consists of opposing the Australian Government. He has come to my electorate with the proposition that he should be voted for because he will resist the Australian Government; he will not co-operate with the Australian Government. 
My goodness, if ever there was a need for co-operation between the Australian Government, a State government and local government, it is on the borders of the Australian Capital Territory. To move those borders, as has been suggested by an illustrious Country Party spokesman, is simply to delay the problem. What do the people in Bateman's Bay, who are affected by the expansion of Canberra, think of a suggestion that their problem could be solved by moving the borders of the Australian Capital Territory? What do the people in Cooma and in Goul burn think of this petty solution? They think that this is a typical Country Party answer, one that sees the immediate problem but has no vision for the future. 
So this image is being characterised right through the electorate. In addition, the very credibility of those who lead the Country Party is being eroded. Take, for example, the sugar contract. Here one saw a petty, mischievous attempt to try to erode the credibility of a worthy objective for the sugar industry. Once again with wheat sales, a sterling attack was started to be mounted against sales to Egypt, but it has evaporated. Not one question has been asked on the subject in this House. Further, in regard to the meat tax there was a deliberate, mischievous attempt in categorical statements by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to mislead the meat industry. 
The Leader of the Country Party has been making categorical statements that the Government is following a certain line of action, and he misled the meat industry into believing what he said, stirring them into a frenzy of hatred for the Government, but the manifestation was not realized. What has happened? The credibility of the man who did that is seriously under examination by the whole rural electorate, reinforced by his attempt to do the same thing in regard to sugar contracts with China and wheat sales to Egypt. The record speaks for itself. There has been a petty attempt to create uncertainty in the minds of the rural electorate by this mischievous, deliberately malicious attempt to discredit the Government. 
Then we heard from other members of the Opposition the confident prediction that  Col. McArthur, Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board would be sacked by this Government. That prediction never came to fruition. That prediction was confidentially made by a spokesman for the Opposition. The confident statement that the superphosphate bounty would be removed in the Budget was not realised. Then we have the Leader of the Opposition predicting that there will be a depression.  His  minions in my electorate are rushing around telling people that we should cut Government expenditure. He is telling people that we should cut Government expenditure, that a depression is coming. He is saying this to people whose children could not get work for more than 12 months after they left high school. He is saying this to people who only 18 months ago knew what unemployment was and what it was like to be under a government which did not increase public expenditure when unemployment was rising. Here we have the Leader of the Opposition predicting a depression and a state of unemployment, and then cutting off the solution to the problem. What inconsistency do people in my electorate see in these people who come and parade their arrogance to them? 
We have, too, the systematic and visionary approach to agriculture by this Government. We find that the rural community in the electorate is seeing that the basic objective is to give greater security and greater price stability, particularly for those products which largely depend on export markets. I remind honourable members that 95 per cent of our wool is exported, 85 per cent of our wheat is exported and 80 per cent of our sugar is exported. Discussions are being held in these areas in order to establish long term contracts for the sale of products to China and Japan. The discussions are ongoing and they have every prospect of success. We have now contracted to deliver to Egypt one million tons of wheat worth more than $130m f.o.b. This has been done in line with an existing agreement which was entered into by the Australian Wheat Board and signed under the previous Government. The Government is guaranteeing 75 per cent of the risk connected with this delivery. The Government's rural policy is bringing stability to the export of products and it is guaranteeing export markets. What worries honourable members opposite is that this state of affairs will manifest itself before they have an opportunity to destroy the electorate's confidence in the Government. What also worries honourable members opposite is that if they do not succeed in forcing an election by June of next year, they will never occupy the Government benches again. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What savings are represented by the fact that money to construct the Yennora wool village was borrowed at semi-Government rates. 
What are the terms and conditions of lease between the Australian Wool Corporation and Sydney Wool Brokers Ltd. in regard to Yennora, and when does the lease expire. 
Apart from freight concessions, what is the difference in brokers charges between Yennora and other New South Wales selling centres. 
Br Patterson - The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is not possible to provide a precise answer to this question without making assumption as to the circumstances of alternative loan arrangements. If the loan were not at semi-Government rates then annual interest charges may be around 2 per cent higher. The extent to which this could increase the cost of the construction of the Yennora complex would depend on the other terms and conditions of the loan which would presumably change if the interest rate were varied. 
I am informed that the terms and conditions of the lease are summarised as follows: 
The lease is for15 years with rights of extension totalling 84 years. 
Lessees rental includes provision for interest and loan redemption, municipal rates, ground rent and insurance. The rental arrangement is to be renegotiated at the end of 20 years whenloan redemption will have been completed. 
In the interval, adjustments are made periodically to meet cost increases in the rental charge components. 
Lessees may not sub-lease without consent, but the Corporation may repossess land or space not in permanent use. 
Lessees may escape from the lease under certain conditions, for example, if action by the Corporation or the Government makes woolbroking impractical at Yennora. 
Lessees are to divulge information on handling costs to the Corporation. 
I am informed that at present there is no difference in brokers charges between wool selling centres in New South Wales. Freight concessions now apply to Newcastle and Goulburn in addition to Yennora. 
I should like to consider for a moment the course of development of science in this country. We have a fundamental basis of science in the British tradition, without the population that has enabled Britain to develop a sophisticated technology around its science. In the main, science research in Australia is concentrated in the fundamental area. We have the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which for many years was concerned with fundamental research. The problems of applied research have only I suppose in the past 5 years occupied the mind of the CSIRO. The problems of social research are only just now being considered by our one professional research organisation. The problems of the interaction between science and the environment also are now concerning the CSIRO. If we think about the structure of research in Australia we realise that we have only 2 fundamental research groups - the CSIRO, which is sponsored directly by the' Australian Government, and universities whose basic research function is to produce research workers. 
It is not satisfactory for us to give to the universities a great amount of research work which is on-going in nature because basically the universities, when they have produced their doctors of philosophy and people with various other degrees, lose a continuity which can be maintained only within the confines of a professional research organisation. This has not really affected Australia greatly in relation to fundamental scientific research, but it has certainly affected Australia in regard to the social sciences. We do not have an on-going social science research organisation. In the more obvious areas of economics we have a few small groups which are taking on this professional mantle. In other areas such as sociology and medical research we find few organisations which have this on-going professional component. So it is important, 1 believe, that we develop a wider approach to research in Australia. Our nation - our economy and society - is growing and becoming more sophisticated, and it is vital that we have these professional research organisations which deal with economic, sociological and medical research. We have tended to look, as happened with the Vernon Committee's recommendations, at the political consequences of research organisations. 
We cannot afford any longer to deny this country the services of professional research organisations in these areas. We certainly cannot afford to deny this country these organisations simply because they become critics of government policy. Naturally they will criticise, but in a virile, healthy political environment any government can afford such criticism. 1 have been impressed by the brochure that was circulated to all members by, presumably, the French Ambassador in Australia. It is entitled 1972, France, Science Research and Development'. On page 60 of that document there is an illustration of another area in which research has been neglected in Australia, that is, the area of industrial development and innovation. On page 60 of the document we find a chapter entitled 'A Policy of Innovation'. At the foot of that page there is a table which goes from basic research through development to industrialisation. At the basic research end in France, as indeed in Australia, the Government accepts responsibility for financing the basic drive. Then we go through basic research, directed research and applied research. 
There are few applied research organisations in this country. When it comes to developing the applications of basic research in Australia, we have had one very good illustration in a field with which I am quite familiar. I refer to wool research, an area to which, incidentally, over the years the CSIRO has devoted a great deal of time. But yet in this applied area, when it came to bringing the machinery of wool measurement, for example, into application, there were a lot of difficulties which were not covered by existing research organisations. A lot of time and effort had to be given to this particular area and special grants were necessary from this Government to carry out this applied research. No organisation was geared to the problem of applying the products of fundamental research, not only as far as the scientists were concerned but as far as the economics were concerned. There was no organisation which could apply the fruits of this research in the industrial sphere. This organisation in France had the point of applied research only as the third stage of an 8-stage development of research. It goes then through pre-development, feasibility studies, technological research development and the pre-mass production stage. At that stage the work is being financed more by industrial funds than by government funds. Then comes the production and marketing stage where the government's role is that performed in Australia by the Australian Industry Development Corporation in the present structure of our economy. It provides venture capital, and then the project merges into the commercial field and is supported by commerce. 
Australia does not have this sophisticated development. I am not asking that this sophisticated development should be developed in Australia at this stage because in many areas we do not have the market base for such development. But I believe that we should be giving much more consideration not only to this question of innovation and development but also, as I mentioned before, to the social and economic research functions of our research and science fields. In regard to this question of innovation I should like to quote from this document. It states: 
In a market economy in which international competition is' becoming increasingly stiff, industrial growth calls for the continuous renewal of production. This only innovation makes possible. 
Here, of course, we are talking about the fundamental economic concept of productivity. In a sophisticated economy it is no longer possible for us to rely on a fairly crude allocation of labour alone for an increase in productivity. It is absolutely essential that we must foster innovation at the ground roots level and see it through to industry. In order to do that we need not only the fundamental science research that CSIRO represents in Australia but also all the other research organisations that I have mentioned as I have developed this argument. The document goes on to state: As the ultimate phase in the complex process of research, innovation comes into its own after basic, fundamental, directed or applied research has given rise to a new discovery. It is up to innovation to insert this discovery into the economic cycle that ends with production. 
In other words it is not good enough to get the idea alone; we need to continue the innovatory process right through to the application phase. As I have already mentioned, in France this process has been divided into 3 operational phases. These are predevelopment stage, which investigates the feasibility of the innovation, the technological research stage and the premass production stage. Having done research myself, in terms of physics, chemistry and economics, I know that the last person to innovate is the person who gets the original idea. The apparatus that will work in the laboratory will never work in industry. The scientist with all his loving care and with all his knowledge of the idea he has developed, knows exactly where to tap the apparatus or where to kick it if brute force is required to make it work. These things cannot be relied on in industry. So a completely separate group of people is needed to integrate with scientists and with industry and to understand how to apply the knowledge. 
Unfortunately I do not have time to develop another important area of research - namely, communications - which has not been given very much consideration at all in Australia. I believe that we need to develop as conscientiously and as systematically the whole area of communication between the research worker and industry as indeed we do the area between the research worker and the application of his ideas. I believe that the Department of Science is a welcome development in the growth and maturation of this economy and our society. For the first time we have a systematic approach, though an embryonic one, to this multitude of problems. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a leaflet entitled 'The National Health Insurance Program - The Plain Truth' circulated in the Australian Capital Territory by the General Practitioners Society of Australia? In particular, I ask whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to the question and answer in this booklet as follows: 
What hospital benefits would I get? 
You will be able to obtain a public hospital ward bed, with up to 30 other patients. You will have to take out additional private insurance if you want a private room or private hospital treatment and the doctor of your choice. 
Are this question and answer relevant to the conditions that now exist in the Australian Capital Territory? 
After listening to the remarks of the previous speakers from the Opposition benches one could be excused for thinking that they had just arrived in this place - not that they had had the responsibility for the last 23 years of looking after the wheat industry. Most of the judgments that have been made by the Opposition have been based on the position in the industry at this stage of its marketing development. One would almost have thought that the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  on this Bill had not been considered by the Opposition because, ironically enough, the Minister referred to the actions in 1968 of the present Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  as the then Minister for Primary Industry in drawing attention to the amount of money that had been contributed by the taxpayers under the terms of the Government's guarantee for stabilisation purposes in the period up to 1968. He mentioned also his suggestion that it was a considerable sum to provide to one of the most prosperous rural industries of that time and that that would of itself be sufficient justification for changes in important features of the stabilisation plan. But those changes were not carried out. 
The wheat industry stabilisation plan was introduced by a Labor Government in 1948. It was continued virtually unchanged for the 23 years in which members of the present Opposition were in government. Now we find that the Australian Labor Party, as the Government, is being criticised because within one year of taking office it has not yet produced the plan that it thinks is more desirable for present conditions in the wheat market. It is quite obvious - the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  has unconsciously supported this proposition - that more time is required if we are to establish a price stabilisation plan that will meet with the full support of the industry. It is essential, as the honourable member for Moore said, that the academics not be allowed to dominate. I am indebted to the honourable member for Moore for outlining so precisely and so neatly the policy making process that took place under a government in which his Party - The Australian Country Party - had the main responsibility for primary industry policy. 
There can be no question that isolated pockets of people with particular ideas or vested interests influenced the bodies which gave advice to the Government of that day in terms of primary industry policy. There can be no question that a large number of the weaknesses in the system that the Australian Labor Party inherited as a Government are due to the fact that that sort of policy making process took place. As the honourable member for Moore described the situation, there was a pocket of academics, whether they were from the field of primary industry or anywhere else does not matter, selling their policy to an organisation such as the Australian Wheat Board, which then successfully sold the policy back to the Government. That is an indictment of the policy making process that took place at that time. There can be no doubt that the ideas and the base for the new wheat industry stabilisation program will be clearly identifiable with the present Government's initiative. There will be no question of it getting its ideas through the back door. The present 
Government is proud to support the work of the Department of Primary Industry. Insofar as its work needs refining by discussion in public by industry groups, the Government is prepared to allow that discussion to take place. 
Previous Opposition speakers - in particular the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  - were once again very loose with the facts. I challenge the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party to tell us exactly where and when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  defied a Cabinet decision and exactly where and when the Minister for Primary Industry dissociated himself from a Cabinet decision. 
I have already referred in this place to the minutes of the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council at which the Minister entered into a commitment in regard to a program for the eradication of weevils in the wheat industry. It is clearly recorded in the Minutes for all to read that an undertaking was given to the Agricultural Council on the condition that it had Cabinet approval. It is also clear that the opposition of wheat growers to inspectors coming onto their properties in order to eradicate weevils from the wheat storage on their farms has had a major impact on the feasibility of the program as originally conceived. There can be no doubt in the mind of any sane and rational person that, given that opposition, the whole program had to be completely reviewed. In fact, the feasibility of the program had to be seriously questioned. 
Another subject to which I wish to refer is the recurring theme of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party that in some way or other it is disastrous to allocate the Primary Industry portfolio to a member of the Senate. Does that mean that the Country Party has no confidence in its 5 members of the Senate? Does that mean that those senators are unable to defend in the Senate the position of the farmer? Does that mean that the Country Party has no confidence in the Senate? Perhaps it does. Let us see that manifested in other ways. The general criticism of the present Minister for Primary Industry has not been supported by, among other farming organisation leaders,  Mr Heffernan,  the  President  of the Victorian Farmers Union. In a public place - at Corryong - he said that  Senator Wriedt  was the best Minister for Primary Industry this country has seen for 15 years. 
Yes. I am indebted to the Leader of the House for indentifying the significant former Minister. As I said when I began my remarks, we have now had the present wheat stabilisation scheme for just over 23 years. It was introduced in 1948 by a Labor Government. 
Yes. There is no doubt that I have a wonderful identification on many occasions with the honourable member for Moore. This plan has to be brought up to date. It has to be brought into line with market conditions and expectations as they are now. The extension of the scheme for one year was agreed to by the wheat industry. This extension is absolutely essential if the whole program is to be looked at in an objective fashion and if time is to be given to the industry to consider the proposals that arise from such an examination. That was clearly stated in the second reading speech of the Minister when he introduced this Bill. The reasons for this one year extension of the present scheme have been outlined to and are understood 'by every rational person in the industry. 
I turn to the subject of political interference. Compared with the political interference that was highlighted by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who is sitting at the table, the recent events fade into insignificance. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who was Prime Minister at the time, has admitted that members of the Wheat Board were used to pass an official note on to the Chinese in May 1967. That admission has been made by the then Prime Minister. The contents of that note have been divulged by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory. There can be no question that in terms of political interference this has reached the height and there can be no question that such use of a marketing organisation will never be indulged in by the present Government. The recent dealings with Egypt were surely commercial .common sense. A 3-year contract had been entered into with the Egyptians. That 3-year contract was entered into at a time when it was absolutely essential that the wheat growers of this country have that market. Therein lies another interesting political story. This commitment already had been agreed to. Now we find members of the Country Party complaining because the Australian Wheat Board has been asked to honour its responsibilities in a strictly commercial sense. Not only that, but also the Government today has accepted a higher degree of risk than has ever been accepted before on a wheat contract. The Government has accepted 75 per cent of the risk involved. This situation is one which the Australian Country Party now condemns. 
Let it be quite clear what the Country Party is condemning. It is condemning a commercially responsible approach to a negotiated contract. It is condemning the reputation which Australia has jealously maintained in the past in relation to commercial contracts. The Country Party wanted the Australian Wheat Board to welsh on a contract. That fundamentally, is what the view of the Opposition comes down to. That, fundamentally, describes the short view that the Country Party takes of agricultural policy in this country today. That, fundamentally, typifies the short term, ad hoc approach which characterised the Country Party's 23 years in government. We have a Bill before us today which will give this Government, a new government, time to develop a more rational, sensible wheat stabilisation program that more adequately will meet the needs of future years. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I direct a question to the 
Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Do the results of the recent referendum on the export of merino rams provide support for the historic position of the Australian Labor Party on this matter? Was the vote a representative decision of woolgrowers? Do the results raise questions in relation to the representative nature of the Australian Wool Industry Conference? 

 - Mr Speaker, some of my constituents have expressed concern to me because their dogs have ceased to eat blood and bone. I have been able to determine to the best of my ability that the probable reason why this has happened is because the price of meatmeal has increased and there is therefore less meat in blood and bone these days than there used to be. The constituents who have complained to me are avid readers of Hansard and they are not on the telephone. So I have now got my message through to them. 
Last night in the adjournment debate I was tackled on the very point that has just been raised by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  I am once again indebted to him for raising it. I will never know why it is that the honourable member for Wimmera and I seem to follow each other in a debate. On this occasion I am grateful to him for his introduction. Last night the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  went to great pains to say that the Department of Primary Industry had in some way abused its privilege in printing what was a very accurate representation of certain events that took place. I presume that the paragraph which offended the honourable member for Paterson was the one which reads: 
This, however, did not prevent Country Party Leader,  Mr Anthony,  from issuing a Press release on 31 August predicting that a tax as high as 12c per lb will be applied initially to exports. He went on to say that when this did not work, the Government would keep on increasing the tax. 
The document from which I am quoting goes on to say: 
Other members of the Country Party and Liberal Opposition did their best to stir the pot, knowing full well that the imposition of an export tax was not being proposed by the Government. 
I refer to page 1349 of Hansard of 20 September 1973 in which the Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  is reported as having said:  let it be known that on 17 March this year at the opening of the Boorowa Show I said that this was the Government's attitude and that the Government would be trying to find a means of bringing down a tax on meat to reduce the domestic price. I have made a series of statements during the year. 
The Leader of the Country Party is reported in Hansard as having stated the very thing that was objected to by the honourable member for Paterson last night. We should look at the rationale of the situation. What right has the Leader of the Country Party to speak for the Government on a matter on which it had not made a decision and on which it was not in a position to make a decision? The Leader of the Country Party, with his as usual inaccurate powers of perception - I am indebted to the Country Party for this pearl of wisdom - completely misread and misinterpreted the attitude of the Government on this matter. He had no authority to make such a statement. He is not a member of the Government. The only motivation for his saying that the Government has already reached a decision was to create mischief in the meat industry. 
I turn now to the quite accurate statement by the honourable member for Paterson about what I said during an interview on the Federal File' program. I quote from the honourable member for Paterson's quotation. The quotation begins:  on the evidence available. . . . 
Later it states:  and the evidence that has been given to the meat prices committee which is, of course, public information . . . 
The entire interview was restricted to the evidence available to the inquiry by the Joint Committee on Prices into meat prices. On that evidence certain conclusions could be drawn. It was not a statement of my position in the policy making area of government. It was a statement of my position as a conscientious member of a committee which had been charged with the responsibility of advising the Government on what it could do to restrain meat price increases. 
The members of the Joint Committee who submitted a minority report avoided carrying out the responsibility they were given. They came up with the answer that there were no ways in which meat prices could be restrained. That answer was a complete negation of the terms of reference of the Committee. Those who submitted the minority report were not prepared to work within the terms of reference of the Committee. They were not prepared to draw conclusions from the evidence. But they were prepared to use the Committee as a political vehicle to perpetuate the trouble that the Leader of the Country Party was already stirring up in the meat industry. It does not surprise me that the Country Party confuses the functions of a fact finding committee with the policy functions of government because throughout the period in which it was making decisions it failed to make this distinction. 
I am once again indebted to the Country Party for the information that has come from it tonight that the referendum on the export of merino rams should not have been held among all sheep breeders but instead should have been restricted to those who have a vested interest in the embargo on the export of merino rams being lifted. We have heard those vested interests stated by a member of the Country Party tonight. According to the Country Party the stud merino breeders are the only ones who should have been consulted on whether the merino ram embargo was lifted. We know, of course, the answer that they would have come up with. Their own financial interests would dictate that answer. It is also interesting to note that the Australian Wool Industry Conference - so we have just been told - represented those vested interests. That simply confirms what honourable, members on this side of the House have said for years and years, that is, that the Australian Wool Industry Conference is not representative of the whole wool industry. One does not have to go any further tonight for confirmation of those observations than to examine what has just been said by a member of the Country Party on this subject. I am very grateful to the Country Party for continually providing me with a forum. It provided me. with such a forum in relation to Yennora. It has now provided me with such a forum in relation to the imposition of a meat tax. It looks as though the next saga will be the embargo on the export of merino lambs. I am greatly indebted to the Country Party for a lifetime of service to my electorate of Eden-Monaro. 
We have before us a Bill, subject to amendment, which acknowledges the facts as we have seen them in Australia in regard to research and development. It is not peculiar to Australia that research and development should be confined to, or at least carried out mainly by, large business enterprises. But it is particularly true in the scene as we see it here. It is also worthwhile, in setting the stage for discussion, to observe that no area of industry and no individual has a monopoly on innovation. In this area it is difficult to identify where such money can most fruitfully be spent. 
The Department of Trade and Industry carried out a survey which it published in 1970. The survey was based on 1,321 enterprises which in 1968-69 had an expenditure of $95m on industrial research and development. This was equivalent, at that stage, to one per cent of their total sales. The majority of these enterprises - 75 per cent - were wholly or mainly Australian owned. These Australian owned firms were responsible for only 39 per cent of the total expenditure on research and development. A large share of this expenditure - 70 per cent - was incurred by a very small percentage of the total number of enterprises - about 6 per cent all told. This is the background of the proposals in this Bill. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  observed that most research and development expenditure was in fact carried out by the larger enterprises in Australia. Work done by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation suggests that the activities of many of these larger enterprises received some impetus from overseas and that the research and development that was carried out in Australia were complementary to research and development carried out by large firms overseas. 
This Bill seeks to relax the professional qualifications in some measure so that smaller firm's and smaller enterprises may share the industrial research and development grants that may be made under this Bill. This is a complete acknowledgement of the fact that innovation occurs at all levels. In many cases the most valuable innovation can occur in a very small enterprise. The development of this innovation in its application to industry is made that much more difficult because the smaller enterprises cannot command resources that will get their ideas quickly into the commercial stream. 
In order to show the sum total of the contribution by Australia to research and development, the report of the Department of Science for the period from 20 December 1972 to 30 June 1973 attempts to characterise research and development activity in Australia. Expenditure on research and development in Australia according to that report is 1.13 per cent of the gross national product. I have not been able to analyse these statistics mathematically but a study suggests that Australia, for an industrialised nation, does not rank very highly in its activity in the fields of research and development. If we compare Australia with a country such as the Netherlands, which has a similar population, we find that the Netherlands spends SUS45 per capita on research and development whereas Australia spends only $27 per capita. 
One can use various formulas to make comparisons like this. For example, research and development expenditure can be taken as a percentage of gross national product. In those terms, Australia comes eleventh out of the 17 countries that are recorded in the report of the Department of Science. We are on the same level as, for example, Belgium and Norway. The countries which expend a greater proportion of their gross national product than Australia does in this area include Canada, Japan, Sweden and Germany. The United States of America devotes about 2.9 per cent of its gross national product to expenditure on research and development. 
Australia, to date, does not really have a very satisfactory record in research and development. I believe that this is due mainly to the fact that we have no systematic professional research organisation devoted to the application of science and research in our economy. (We do need, I feel, to supplement the work done by industry and encouraged by this legislation, a parallel professional group sponsored by Government which is involved in this very important area of developing research. 
Again, the report of the Department of Science has given us a breakup of money spent on research and development in Australia. We find that in the year considered by this report, 1968-69, $342m was spent on research and development in Australia. Of this amount, Australian Government instrumentalities spent $139m while $42m was spent by State governments. Business enterprises spent $85m in this area. This is not a very high proportion of the total sum of $342m. Various other contributions make up the difference. So, Australian Government involvement, as high as it is, still in my view is unable to provide the permanent employment situation for the development of technology and the application of science in our economy. The CSIRO is fundamentally orientated in its research work and universities are not really qualified to carry out a continuing program of research and development. 
The proposals in this legislation go some way towards solving the problem of identifying innovation. They will lead to a situation, as I have mentioned before, where smaller groups and people with an idea that perhaps they can develop uniquely with the resources available now will have a better chance of being able to come to this Government and expect some assistance in the development of their ideas.. One only has to think of some of the more recent discoveries with respect to engines to realise that these ideas first had their origin - as all ideas do - in the mind of one person. Then, as he developed this idea, he was able perhaps to sell it to other people - this is the life of an idea - and eventually to incorporate the idea into the commercial stream. The fact that many people have a great battle to get through these early stages is a blot on the development of science in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. I particularly commend the new proposals that have been introduced by this Government. 
The situation which already has been explained quite clearly to this House is that the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said, at least on 31 August and by his own admission on many occasions before, that the Government had decided to take certain action. The Leader of the Country Party may be brilliant and he may have perception, but he does not speak for the Goverment. If what we have just heard is an attempt to draw attention away from this central fact that the Leader of the Country Party without authority made a statement about what the Government had decided to do, then it will fail because there could have been only one motivation for this type of statement, namely, to cause trouble in the meat industry. A man with no authority makes a statement that the Government had made decisions! There was no authority whatsoever for such a statement. The rationale of the argument is so obvious. 
Anybody who is prepared to concentrate for one second on this position will realise that the Leader of the Country Party was deliberately causing mischief by making such a statement, and this is the central point that will come out. For as long as the Country Party continues to thrash this dead horse J will make absolutely certain that this one central point keeps coming up all the time. The same tactic was used by the Country Party, in particular by the Leader of the Country Party, in relation to the sugar industry, and so it went on. There has been this tendency for the Country Party, when in Opposition, to speak for the Government. It has no authority whatsoever to speak in these terms. 
The honourable member for Gippsland also insinuated that he could not take my word. That is up to him. There can be no question about the way I voted in the Government Members Primary Industry Committee and then in Caucus. If the honourable member for Gippsland wants to doubt my word in relation to this matter there will be plenty of witnesses to prove him wrong, as indeed there are on most of the points which he believes to be points of fact and which he has tried to establish in this argument. The principal means for controlling meat prices - the honourable member for Gippsland used this term when he first read the recommendation - contained in the recommendation in the report of the Joint Committee on Prices, based on the evidence available to the Committee, was a meat tax. The exclusive words were there - the words which allowed us to put the weight that was necessary on this particular recommendation. They led the recommendation in format. The whole report was a report presented to the Government at the Government's request in order to summarise, on the evidence available to the Committee, the means available at that time for controlling meat prices. 
I make one further point. The evidence given to the Joint Committee on Prices established beyond all doubt that the Australian Meat Board did not have statistics on the domestic market. The Meat Board report was inadequate. The Meat Board, on its own admission, was not qualified to talk about the domestic market. Colonel McArthur admitted that it did not have statistics on the domestic market in Australia. I submit that one of the gravest revelations of the Prices Committee and its inquiry was that the Meat Board did not have statistics on the domestic market. We are talking about domestic prices. The Meat Board was export orientated. There could be no question that the Meat Board report had to be reconsidered, that more evidence had to be taken on the subject of domestic prices. 1 repeat that the Meat Board itself admitted that it was unable to give the statistics and information required on the domestic market. I once again thank the Country Party for the forum to put these points of view to this Parliament and to my electorate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What overtime and allowances have been paid since 2 December 1972 to (a) the following members of the staff of the Leader of the Opposition: (i)  Dr J.  Best, (ii)  Mr J.  Knight, (iii)  Mr W.  R. Sheppard, (iv)  Mr J.  Fraser, (v) Miss J. Thompson, (vi)  Mr J.  Goodfellow, (vii) Miss A. Fox and (viii) all other members of his staff and (b) the following members of the staff of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition: (i)  Mr A.  O. Hay, (ii) Miss B. M. Anderson, (iii)  Mr K.  Randall and (iv) all other members of his staff. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What was the average traffic density of the final 2.2 miles of the road connecting Fyshwick and the border of the Australian Capital Territory at Queanbeyan: 
during each year from 1965 to 1973; and 
between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. on a week day during 1973. 
What roads in the Australian Capital Territory have a higher traffic density per lane during peak periods than this section. 
What was the method adopted to allocate expenditure on road construction in the Australian Capital Territory for 1973-74. 
Is it intended to upgrade the FyshwickQueanbeyan Road; if so, when will work start, and what type of road is planned. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. What response has the Minister for the Media had to his suggestion in February this year, in an address to representatives of the motion picture industry, that the major distributors of films in Australia should play a part in providing backing for the production of Australian films in Australia? What signs are there that a commercially viable industry can be established in Australia to provide continuity of work for people employed in the film business? 
Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware of claims by the Leader of the Country Party that the price of domestic crude oil should be increased? Has the Government any intention of heeding this advice which would seriously increase costs for the whole community? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, a review of the situation in this country after a little more than one year of Labor government is, I think, worth while. When the Labor Government took office unemployment in my electorate was such that high school graduates had been out of work for an entire year. They faced the prospect of going back to school or facing further unemployment. This was the position throughout my electorate. Today, of course, the demand for labour is so strong that the Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is provoked to complain about the fact that we have over-full employment. The logical deduction will be drawn from that statement by the people who, when we achieved government, were unemployed - those people who had been educated to think and who had had plenty of time to do so. We have seen a major change in that state of affairs. It is an indictment on the humanity of the Government that ruled up to December 1972. 
We have heard also today a great deal of discussion about the condition of the agricultural sector of the community. The facts are that since 19/1-72 gross agricultural income has increased from $3,986m to $6,220m - an increase of $2,234m. Let me refer to an impartial source for a review of what has happened in agriculture. I refer to a document entitled 'The Farm Situation in Australia' which is a background paper presented by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to the recent National Outlook Conference. Page B-24 of that document states: 
Many of the key rural indicators confirm that the three consecutive years of rising gross value of  producton  and farm income have restored confidence to the rural sector. Farmers have been more willing to borrow funds, while some lending institutions, particularly the trading banks, have been more willing to lend. It also appears that the current situation has resulted in a higher level of repayment of existing debts. 
This is not the opinion of any government supporter; this is the opinion of the impartial Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The document further states: 
At the same time there has been a moderate expansion in machinery and farm implement purchases. Thus the improved economic position of farmers in the past three years has facilitated the replenishment of farm resources and has enabled necessary adjustments to be made in the light of changing market circumstances. 
This is the condition of the farm sector today. Yet we heard the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  speak to us in such dismal terms about the performance of this Government in respect of the farm community.  (Quorum formed)  I am indebted once again to the members of the Australian Country Party for supplying my audience. As I was saying when I was interrupted, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  informed us that invariably for the agricultural sector the crunch comes when prices are on the downturn. Who could speak from more experience about downturns in prices for the farm sector than the honourable member for Gippsland? He and his colleagues have presided over more downturns than any of other Country Party leaders in the history of this country. It has been stated also by the honourable member for Gippsland - quite astutely, I thought - that the markets and the agricultural sector need some sort of firm assurance. Indeed, that is exactly what this Government is all about. 1 quote again not the Government's own opinion, but from the same paper produced by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It states on page B-19: 
Recently concluded long term agreements by Australia should also contribute to reduce uncertainty and instability. 
The document is referring to the agricultural sector and it continues: 
The long term wheat and sugar agreements recently negotiated between Australia and China, and the rice agreement with Indonesia, should be of value to Australian producers insofar an they ensure that a guaranteed quantity of each commodity will be sold over a specified period at world prices to China. In the case of wheat, the agreement provides for the sale of up to 4.7m tonnes over a three year period from 1 January 1974. For sugar, an arrangement has been reached for the sale of about 300,000 tonnes annually to China over a three to five year period. 
One of the main advantages of long term agreements is that they can provide producers with greater confidence about future export outlets. This, in turn, should assist producers in their forward production planning. Since such agreements assure market access even in times of surpluses, they are likely to be of particular value should international trading conditions become more difficult and competitive. In general, such agreements introduce a certain degree of stability into the farm situation. Therein is the key to this Government's agricultural policies. It is not the short term ad hoc reaction that we have become used to during the period of 23 years when the Opposition were in the Government benches. It is indeed laying the foundation for a firm development of agriculture in Australia. 
I turn now again to a major change that has taken place partly because of the policies this Government has initiated. We, for the first time, have provided incentive for development in Australia. Naturally shortages will be created as all of the resources of the country are brought to bear in the interests of the community at large. Unemployed school graduates whom the Opposition was so callously prepared to throw on the junk heap will continue to find employment. Shortages will be created. The great problem of inflation will be the result. What is the Opposition's answer to this serious problem of inflation? We see in this morning's newspapers that the Leader of the Opposition has said that a Liberal government would reduce government spending. He has said that before. But he has failed to tell us in which fields such a government would reduce spending. 
Does the Liberal Party support the Country Party in its desire to keep the superphosphate bounty? If it does, let us hear that from the Leader of the Liberal Party. Where will the Liberal Party reduce expenditure? Let us have these facts made public. It is possible, of course, that a Liberal government will have to reduce expenditure in all sorts of areas without necessarily reducing the amount of income tax collected - if the Liberal Party follows its previous philosophy of increasing Defence expenditure, as we have been told it will. It will probably start another war as well as order to channel off more funds. We hear though that the Liberal Party will reduce spending to enable it to cut back on monetary expansion without recourse to massive interest rate increases. 'It will also allow us to cut taxes',  Mr Snedden  said. How can this statement be believed until we find out how these actions are to be taken. What will be sacrificed? Will it be the high school graduates again? Will they be put out of work? It sounds like it, because in the same breath the Leader of the Liberal Party told us that we have overfull employment and that that is a dangerous condition. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has informed us that the price which we pay for crude oil is too high. This statement is on a par with his comment on 26 February when, in making a plea for the same interests that members of the Country Party are now identifying themselves with, he referred to steel prices and said: 
The argument will be raised that higher steel prices would be inflationary. No doubt they would be, but is the short term inflation factor the only one to be considered? 
He has made 2 statements, one of which relates to steel prices. The Country Party made a plea for higher steel prices. In his statement today he made a plea for higher crude oil prices. The Country Party has made a new allegiance with the mining industries of Australia. What about farmers' costs now? 
The Country Party says: 'Fine. It will be great so long as they do not complain about petrol prices or anything to do with steel'. What about the Country Party's position in respect of tariffs, which it has failed to renounce since it has occupied the Opposition benches? I again refer to the document from which I have quoted. The effect of tariff reductions on farm costs has been established by the BAE at page B-l 1 of the booklet from which I have already quoted. It states: 
However, figures that are available show that between December 1972 and May 1973 there was a 7 per cent reduction in the f.o.b. price of imports . . . 
This statement is not a statement by the Government. It goes on:  . . which perhaps importantly for rural producers included falls in the import price index for machinery of 12 per cent and for transport equipment of 1 1 per cent. 
This is not the Government's statement, it is the BAE's statement. It clearly indicates that the reduction in tariffs has resulted in a reduction in the costs of farm machinery for the agricultural sector. 
The BAE has named them for the honourable member. Members of the high protection Party who sit to our right and resolutely refused to reduce tariffs all the time that they were part of the coalition Government are now shown up for what they are - people who are prepared to protect the vested and narrow interest groups which feed on the community at large, particularly the agricultural sector. What about the energy policy of the Opposition? Recently it was made clear that if this Government had not given strong direction in regard to bunker fuel there would not have been enough such fuel for the agricultural exports of this country to have gone overseas. This is a fact. We are now guaranteed supplies. We have this fuel. Under the Opposition's policy with regard to fuel we would more likely have been exporting petrol at a time when it was needed most in this country because the Opposition was not prepared to curb in any way the desires and greed of the international corporations which it allowed to farm our resources. Instead, we have a strong government lead in regard to the question of fuel, which is so important to the agricultural sector. 
I turn to one other factor which has been introduced by this Government and which has affected the long term future of agriculture. In rural electorates the Government has been subjected to great persecution by the Country Party because of its taxation modifications. Let us consider now exactly what happened under the previous Government. I quote again from this impartial source, the BAE. It states at page B-17: 
Manufacturers of farm machinery and equipment may continue to have difficulty in meeting the unexpectedly large rise in demand for investment goods because of low stock levels and the scarcity of materials and labour. Such difficulties are partly associated with the present full employment situation, but also with the instability of agricultural product prices which is transmitted to the demand for investment goods. It is difficult for manufacturers of farm machinery to cut back their production in one year in response to slack demand and then to expand production rapidly in a subsequent year to satisfy a much greater demand. 
This situation existed under the LiberalCountry Party Government - a stop-start situation in which the people and the resources employed by the agricultural implement manufacturers in Australia were put on and put off in response to peak demands, engineered deliberately by the Government of the day when it was concentrating on expenditure in the most inefficient way over a very brief period. The farmer did not win. He had to pay more money because of the short supply position which was created by this action. It would have been far better - it will more likely be the case in future - to have this demand spread evenly throughout the farm production periods whether prices are high or low. The taxation modifications will have that effect, and in the long term the permanent farmers in the agricultural sector will be considerably better off as a result of this Government's initiative in that area. It is worth quoting further from this booklet. I quote: 
Shortages of investment goods in the current year may be alleviated to some extent, however, by increased imports, encouraged by the 25 per cent reduction in tariffs and the revaluations of the Australian dollar in 1972 and 1973. 
So the chickens start to come home to roost. I turn to other areas in which there have been remarkable changes in my electorate of EdenMonaro. I refer to the grant for isolated children, the increased expenditure on schools, the assistance to local government and the preschool grants. AH these initiatives which have been taken by this Government have been frustrated by the Opposition, firstly in this place and then in the State.  Sir Robert  Askin leads a government which was proud to be returned on the electoral promise that it would deliberately frustrate Australian Government policies. How well the State Government does that. The pre-school grants which have been allocated by this Government have been frustrated in New South Wales because the State Government failed to do its homework. That Government had no basic commitment to the principle of supplying pre-schools. Therefore today its is completely unprepared to use the $3.7m which has been allocated to it for pre-schools. 
We are told that a letter has gone to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  from the Premier of New South Wales, that it arrived 1 month after the Prime Minister wrote his letter and that it asked questions which had been covered in the pre-schools report to this Government and did not bother any other State. By the time the Premier's letter had arrived the expenditure program was well under way in South Australia. I would be interested to learn how much money the New South Wales Government has allocated to pre-schools in the country. This figure will make an interesting comparison. I am waiting to find how the New South Wales LiberalCountry Party Government has allocated this grant. It will be interesting to see whether a city such as Queanbeyan, which has been completely neglected by the New South Wales Government, has received a portion of it. Queanbeyan is in dire need of pre-school facilities. I wait with bated breath to see whether the morality of the New South Wales Government is faithfully reflected by the morality of the Liberal-Country Party in this House. I believe that it will be. 
I rise to speak to this Bill because I believe that it addresses itself to a very serious area of neglect in education in Australia. To illustrate my point I would like to develop a situational set of circumstances which exist in Goulburn. Recently I attended the declaration of the opening of the new 3M factory at Goulburn. This company operates in a technically based industry which is very much dependent on innovation for its products. Many of the products of this company have been developed in Australia by Australian brains. This company requires a great number of personnel who have been trained in technical colleges. 
In looking to the future, and bearing in mind that the factory eventually will employ over 1,000 people in a city the size of Goulburn, we find 2 disturbing areas. One is the supply of housing for the growing population of Goulburn. The second is the provision of technical training facilities for the staff that will work in the factory. We are faced with the reality that there is a shortage of trained craftsmen in the building industry today. This is the first area of concern for the people who will work in the new factory at Goulburn. The fact that there is a shortage of skilled building tradesmen in the Goulburn area points up the need to encourage people to undertake building courses at technical colleges. 
The second area of concern is the training of technical personnel for the rather specialised jobs within such a factory. It is here that we come to the structural problem which is associated with technical education throughout Australia. Goulburn is a city of 22,000 people. However, the city is not large enough to provide technical training facilities in some of the more specialised areas. It has been necessary to develop technical training which by its very nature has to be concentrated in the capital city of Sydney. For some young people who are leaving school the need to leave home to continue their education is something of an adventure. However, for some it is a frightening experience to have to leave home and go to a strange area to learn perhaps a trying discipline. After all, these young people are just commencing on their road so far as technical training is concerned. Therefore it is necessary to develop a flexibility in technical education which will cope with these specialised demands. 
In the more remote areas we find, for example, a problem of training motor mechanics. Every town, of course, needs its motor mechanics. Motor mechanics from Batemans Bay and other coastal areas in my electorate have to go to Goulburn, Canberra, Sydney or Wollongong for their training. This is a special and unique problem associated with technical education in country areas. It is a problem which I am sure the Australian Commission for Technical and Further Education will consider. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  commented on the class consciousness that exists in education in Australia. In the past the right and proper thing to do has been to go to a university, and it has been considered inferior to go to a technical college. This has meant that not only have people who have gone to technical colleges felt themselves to be second class citizens but also they have had to put up with second class facilities. The technical college building at Goulburn was built in 1900. It is overcrowded and the internal spacing problems are such that the college does not have the scope to offer proper technical education in these technical fields. Another effect that this second class status has on the system is that people who come to technical colleges tend to come from poorer families which cannot afford the true costs of technical education. 
I believe that the abolition of fees at technical colleges proposed by this legislation is a very significant first step towards upgrading technical education. The cost of this move is relatively small when one considers the cost of the other areas of education. We are faced with the difficulty of providing a new status for technical education. The honourable member for Gwydir elaborated on this problem and I do not wish to cover the same ground. I agree wholeheartedly with what the honourable member said on this point. This problem goes further than bringing to the community an awareness of the importance of technical education; it goes to the financial remuneration received by the people who are products of the system. It is quite unsatisfactory in the long term to offer to people who graduate from technical colleges wages and salaries which are lower than the salaries and wages offered to university graduates and graduates from colleges of advanced education. People need to be paid a wage and a return commensurate with the contribution they make to the welfare and the wellbeing of the community of which they are a part. I think the time is long overdue for us to work through the ramifications of technical education and to consider its attractiveness in terms of wages paid to a person who has graduated, in terms of the status which is applied to the institution which provides the education and in terms of the type of people who are attracted to technical education. 
There are many other facets of technical education which provide an adventure. For example, retraining, which must become a more important feature in our technically orientated community, will affect every age group in the community: It should not be necessary for us to regard a technical college as the place to which one goes when one leaves school and which one does not see again when one's course has been finished. We should see the technical college as a place to which people will return from time to time throughout their lives. I would like to give an example of the need for retraining in this very contemporary society of ours. The area of wool marketing with which I have been associated has undergone a major technical revolution in regard to the concepts and processes used in the preparation of wool for marketing. The wool classing courses conducted by the New South Wales Department of Technical Education are probably the best in Australia. However, once the revolution in wool marketing had started it was quickly realised that the concepts that were taught in the traditional wool classing courses were no longer relevant. As a result it has been necessary to bring back to the technical college wool classers who perhaps have not seen the inside of a school for 20 years. They have come back to relearn their occupation. It has been necessary to create special courses for these mature people who in many cases have already raised families but who wish to stay in their chosen occupation. This is not an isolated incident. 
We can expect to see more and more retraining taking place in technical colleges. In this sense technical colleges should become a lively and exciting area for innovation in community living and community involvement. I feel that there is an exciting future for technical colleges. The action that the Government has taken to abolish fees and the action that the Government will take on the report of the Australian Commission for Technical and Further Education will create the basis for the change in status so greatly needed to attract into technical education the supply of tradesmen and craftsmen that we need to make sure that our lives are properly balanced and that our economy is maximised in terms of this use of resources. 
There are other areas of technical education which do not bear, in the traditional way, on the economic functions of the community. Technical education plays a role in developing artists and a sense of drama. In colleges such as the East Sydney Technical College we see an environment and an attitude towards art and drama which accepts the fact that these are as much and as important a part of everyday living as are the more functional courses that the technical college has to teach. We see the transitional areas where these functional and basic requirements of technical education move into this field in such areas as cooking and other courses that the technical college presents. As we become more sensitive to the creative nature of men - and women - we can expect more support for these particular areas of instruction in the technical colleges. 
I am very pleased to identify myself today with this Bill, which is an acknowledgment of the fundamental and important role that technical education plays in our community. Perhaps for the first time - at least for the first time in many years - we are seeing a new interest in this area and a recognition of its fundamental importance to our entire society. 
We have had proposals that the price of crude oil should be increased. I believe that this is a matter of public importance, as it will affect every motorist in Australia. It has many other significant aspects. The proposal has come in the form of an Australian Country Party policy statement in which there has been a call for an increase in Australian crude oil prices. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is quoted as saying in the 'Australian Financial Review' and also said on the television program "This Day Tonight' that crude oil prices would have to rise. 
As I have indicated, this statement and the commitment of the Australian Country Party to this principle is a matter of public importance. It would mean more thant just each citizen of Australia having to pay higher prices for his petrol. It would mean more than all industry in Australia having to pay increased costs to enable it to function. It is a turning point in Australian politics. 
The Country Party now at last has severed and forsaken its farming friends and has turned now to represent the mining lobby in this place. We see the transition beautifully in the discussions relating to the name change of that Party. The Australian Country Party which has stood so strongly as the friend of the farmer in this place is to be known as the National Country Party or the National Party. One can see where this name transition will end. Can we doubt that we will have the Multi-National Party in this House before long? 
Let us consider the implications of this new proposal so far as the new-found friends of the Country Party are concerned. Australia produces 161 million barrels of oil a year. There is a gap of S6 a barrel between the Australian crude price and the overseas price. If we follow the Country Party recommendation to its logical conclusion, a $966m golden handshake will go to 2 companies. The overseas-owned Esso company will receive one-half of this golden handshake and the other half will go to Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. We can see now whom this Party represents. The Esso-BHP partnership invested money in oil and gas activities which in 1973 returned  20.9  per cent on its investment. No farmer enjoys that sort of return on investment. We can see now why the Country Party has made this move. 
Let us now consider the effect that the Country Party's policy will have on rural industry, which this Party has forsaken. Using the IAC-Monash input-output data we find, for example, that the proposal that Country Party has put to us means that the costs of production in the sheep industry would rise by $25. 5m in one year; for the wheat industry by $ 12.4m; and for the milk and pig industry by $11.9m. This would give a total increase for the rural industries of Australia of $82.25m as a result of the Country Party's proposal to increase the price of crude oil. We have seen crocodile tears from members of the Country Party about a $60m loss which the industry will sustain as a result of the abolition of the superphosphate bounty. In one breath members of the Country Party have said that this will be a disaster for agriculture. But in the next breath they support a proposal which would impose on agriculture a cost  520m  greater. The proposals advocated by the Country Party will cost primary producers $82.25m. 
Petroleum products represent average direct farm costs of $580 per year for individual farmers. The cost to wheat farmers is $1,100. The Country Party intends to double these costs. The Leader of the Country Party has clearly confused the Australian and Middle East crude oil prices in his statement. He has confused these prices with producer returns. He has confessed that he did not know whether the producer returns he was quoting included or did not include taxes and royalties. The recent increase in the overseas prices were duc entirely to tax payable to producing countries. Production costs have not increased from  10c  a barrel due entirely to increases in overseas costs. We see this element of confusion right throughout the statements of the Leader of the Country Party. It is contained also in the document prepared by that Party. 
As for the comparison that is made in regard to the incentive for cil exploration in Aus.tralia, the real variable is what the producer receives, and of course we have to make that comparison after royalties and taxes have been subtracted. The evidence that we have at our disposal indicates strongly that already Australian producers are receiving more than their overseas counterparts. If the Country Party was so keen to provide some sort of exploration incentive why did it not follow the example of its friends in the United States of America? We have had this comparison he'd up ad nauseam. The United States is the leader of the world so far as the Opposition is concerned. Now we find that there ?s a situation where the Country Party, in order to represent faithfully its new-found friends, has turned its back on the precedent established in the United States where the control of prices exists at the established wells. In the United States a producing well has its price fixed at SA2.33 which would mean, of course, that the price of Bass Strait oil would be fixed at the current level. In the United States the price of oil from new wells is left uncontrolled in order to provide an incentive for exploration. I wonder whether the Country Party considered this formula? 
It is interesting to recall the comments of the present Leader of the Country Party as recorded in Hansard of 19 November 1968 when he was high in his praise of the decision to guarantee import parity of crude oil prices. He said: 
. the price of oil may go down. But one does not know. On the other hand it may go up. 
At that time he was a member of the Gorton Government. If we examine closely the report on mining and energy prepared by the Country Party - and this is the basis of its policy in this field - we find, for example, that the policy enunciates the principle that mining and energy should be founded on the basis of free enterprise with a minimum of government interference. But we then read on and discover that the Country Party believes the Government should provide the infrastructure for the development of the mining areas - price incentives. No doubt this would mean an increase in the price of crude oil. The Country Party also believes that the Bureau of Mineral Resources should provide technical services to the industry. Further, it believes that there should be other forms of direct government assistance to the mining industry to facilitate their activities and increase their level of profitability. So we have a situation sketched out in this report which is a tribute to free enterprise, provided that the Government, and the taxpayers through the Government, support these areas so far as they are unprofitable. The Country Party supports the mining industry in those areas where it might be expensive to carry out its investment program. Another very interesting statement in this document is in relation to the wages paid. On page 10 it states: 
People working in these industries- 
The mining and the energy industries -  are entitled to adequate rewards for their effort. 
We are told that they work in an inhospital environment and therefore need adequate returns for their effort. Once again we see the desertion of the previous friends of the Country Party. What are the pastoralists of the Northern Territory and Western Australia going to say when they see their former champions in government supporting increased awards in order to attract personnel into the mining industry? What are these pastoralists going to say when cheek by jowl we have the highly and well paid workers in the mining industry, and the people who have had to suffer the measly wage provided by the pastoral award over the years? What sort of comparison will this represent to the pastoral industry of Australia? Yet we see in this Country Party report an outright plea for increased returns to the workers in the mining industry. Of course, we on this side of the House commit ourselves completely to that one principle. But the contradiction between the Country Party's newfound policy and its effect on its old friends needs to be underlined. 
Also, we find another great and grave contradiction in this document. The very basis on which crude oil prices are to be raised, we are told, is the encouragement of new exploration. Exploration for what? Is it for domestic consumption in Australia or is it for export? We find that the report is preoccupied with export. We are told that we should encourage exports and that we should provide all sorts of facilities for Australia's resources to be exported. We can see what could happen and what would have happened if the previous Government had been in power during the recent energy crisis. The wheat industry, the meat industry, the wool industry of Australia would have found their produce bottled up on the wharves of Australia because of the philosophy so beautifully outlined in this report, which would have led us to the situation in which we would have been exporting fuel in the face of shortages in Australia. 
There can be no question that is where this report ends. It does it so wonderfully in itself that one need not refer anywhere else. For example, what would a person with elementary logic make of this statement: 
Exports of North West gas were prohibited . . . before it was established whether an export volume could be sustained. 
In other words, the Country Party is complaining because this Government stopped the export of gas before we determined whether we could afford to export it. This statement appears blatantly in this report. What a contradiction in terms. How easy it is for the woolly thinking involved in this report to become so confused that it ends up in a single paragraph contradicting itself in this way on this fundamental issue: Should we preserve our natural resources for the benefit of this nation, or should we sell them willy-nilly through companies owned by overseas interests to overseas countries? This is the implication that comes through this report. There can be no question where this Government stands. 
In this Country Party policy statement we also find a constant referral to the present Government's position. What could be more definite? What could be more obvious than the restriction of export of minerals and energy until such time as we knew that our own needs would be met? What could be more certain. Yet we find this reference throughout the policy statement which complains of vagueness in this Government's attitude. The policy statements meanders over 14 pages from innuendo to innuendo. The report reflects something of the depth of thought given to the entire policy. A series of sub-titles and headings on the last 4 pages sets the stage. I shall read the sub-titles as they appear in the report: Unreal', 'Uncertainty', 'Capacity', 'Hampered', Confused', 'Hopeless', 'Tragedy', 'Confusing', Not Clear' and naturally they end with the word 'Bewildered'. Could anyone believe that this was a policy statement on minerals and energy with sub-headings like that? Where do they lead one? They lead one to the end of the document. It ends with the mark 'Anthony' and 'Katter'. Can we say of this leader, as has been said of another of the same name: He is become the bellows and the fan to cool a gipsy's lust'? 
Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that an Australian Capital Territory ordinance prevents the appropriate procedures from being adopted in transferring body organs, such as kidneys, from a donor to a needy patient in the Australian Capital Territory? Would the Minister review this ordinance with a view to bringing the practice in the Australian Capital Territory into line with that now adopted by the States? 
In speaking to this Wool Industry Bill, which seeks to finance research, promotion and administration so far as the Australian Wool Corporation is concerned,  I  should like to dwell for some time on the 3 functions that are the subject headings of the Bill. Firstly, in regard to research I believe that in the wool industry as in other areas of research, we ought to have a separation between administration, marketing and the research function along the lines that have been traditionally accepted; for example, as with the distinction between the Church and the State so far as Government functions are concerned. 
It seems to me to be difficult to accept a situation in which research is conducted by an organisation which has a vested interest in the outcome of that research. This can be explicit or implicit. For example, in the case of the Australian Wool Corporation, it has a marketing function. It has a role to play in the marketing of wool. The profitability of that role will impinge in some way on its research functions. We find too that in regard to the Corporation the committees that are established to administer these research funds leave something to be desired. 
We look at the Production Research Committee and find that 3 of the 4 members are wool growers. I have no objection to the idea that wool 'growers should be on these committees. In fact it is very important that they are. But clearly when we administer research funds there ought to be people on the committees who have an appreciation of the requirements of research. There is one production research scientist on the Production Research Committee - a very busy production research scientist - who is in fact not now involved in research at all as he is employed by the Australian Wool Corporation in an administrative capacity. 
I turn to the economic research group which gives advice to the AWC. We find here that the committee of four consists of two wool growers, one economic researcher who also is employed by the Corporation in an administrative role, and one production research worker who is the same person who is on the Production Research Committee. There are no people advising the AWC who are actively involved in research, who have an appreciation of the problems associated with financing research or who have an appreciation of the problems associated with setting the priorities of research. I believe this is one of the traps that can be sprung on Government funds when we find these functions of research and marketing embodied in the single organisation. 
We  find too that the attitude of the industry pervades very strongly the organisation of the AWC. Once again, there is no particular objection to be levelled at this because the Corporation's basic function is in the market place where the attitude of the industry should to a large extent dictate the actions of the Australian Wool Corporation. But once those traditional attitudes of the industry leaders are established they are a great restraint on innovation. The industry leaders know how things worked in the past and they find it difficult to accept the view that there may be other ways of performing the functions that have been traditionally accepted in the industry. 
So the Wool Corporation provides a very strong check on innovation in this regard. I have personally suffered from this restriction on the allocation of research funds. As a research worker in this field at one stage in my career I spent almost half of my time fighting the Wool Board and the Wool Commission because of the traditional stance they took against ideas which have now 'been incorporated in a practical way into the marketing system. All of these ideas have recently come to a head in the activities of the Australian Objective Measurement Committee, which has now published 3 reports on the subject. As I have mentioned, the ideas embodied in those reports were pressed very hard against the traditional resistance in the group of people who had the responsibility of allocating research funds. 
I have a very good example of this resistance which I shall cite to the House after dinner. This question of the separation of the functions of the Australian Wool Corporation is of extreme importance now situated as we are on the threshold of big reforms in the administration of wool marketing. I have no particular objection to promotion and marketing being bulked under the one organisation for they deal with the same basic function. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was covering a topic relating to research under the Wool Industry Bill which is the Bill under discussion. By way of example of the point that I was making before the suspension of the sitting, I should like to give details of an experiment which was not reported in the report of the Australian Objective Measurement Committee. It was not reported for a very good reason. It is a classic example of an experiment designed by industry people with industry experience, but having no understanding at all of the elementary requirements pf a research project. More significantly, the design of this experiment was carried out by the very people who are advising the Australian Wool Corporation on how to spend its research funds. The objective of the experiment was to quantify the role of a property of wool called 'style', which is a visual property which all research workers have tended to discount on the ground that it has not yet displayed any economic significance. Yet this experiment was designed not only to demonstrate that it was important but also to quantify in money terms how important it was. 
In order to have an experiment at all, it was necessary to select a superior and an inferior batch in regard to style. It was also important to standardise other properties in wool, and this standardisation process was done on the traditional basis of subjective judgment which proved to be an error when the wools were finally measured. The experiment was conducted at the Port Phillip Mills Pty Ltd and I should like to quote the conclusions reached by those mills as set out on their experiment sheet. It states: 
The tests show clearly that the trade is willing to pay, more for the superior type than the inferior and that the top also reflects a commercial premium for the superior type. 
Fortunately, there were some scientists present who were able to carry out a control on this experiment. The very same wool was processed under controlled conditions by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and, in its conclusions, the CSIRO said: 
Although the samples are similar in average fibre length and average fibre diameter, there is a much greater proportion of shorter fibres in the superior sample than in the inferior sample. This has resulted in reduced spinning performance of the superior sample compared with the inferior, which has performed normally for this type of wool. 
The cost of the experiment was a relatively low $1,200; we can be thankful for that. But the cost of processing this wool in the Port Phillip Mills was $17,115. If ever we had an example of the need to separate research from the commercial functions, it is in this experiment - an experiment paid for from Government moneys which was not recorded in the report subsequently published which was, in fact, an account of all other experiments conducted under this project. Obviously, it was not recorded because it was a badly designed and advised experiment. It set out to prove something that had been demonstrated beyond all doubt by all other research in the past in order to justify a traditional position which had been found wanting. 
Yes, I will provide the honourable member for Corangamite with the complete details of this experiment. In this Bill the Government is taking an increased responsibility for research for the very sensible reason that research cannot be narrowed down to a specific area of activity. No matter what research is conducted, it has a bearing in all sorts of other areas, sometimes on the surface quite unrelated to the basic area of research. As the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  quite clearly pointed out, this interrelationship between one area of research and another calls for a larger Government responsibility and I am pleased to see that this direction has been set in the present Bill. 
One qualification I might place on this is that the absolute amount of money available in any one year for wool research is still tied to the wool industry funds. This particular method of funding research raises 2 problems. The first is that there is a variation in wool industry funds which of course is not related to the requirements of research. It is impossible to switch research on and off as, indeed, it is impossible to expect the wool growers of this country to live on an income which is switched on and off. Stability is required in both areas, but it is absurd not to provide stability for research when a change in the funding mechanism would provide that stability. So, we still have this difficulty of variation in research funds under the present method. I look forward to further refinement of the method adopted for financing research and I am sure that this will come. 
The second problem - I have already hinted at this - is that no area of research can be confined to a specific subject. What we need today more and more is a systems approach to research when one area is seen in its relationship to others. For example, one might take the experience in the wool industry as a guide line to what is required. Today, we have big technological developments taking place in the wool market. Some concern has been expressed and some provision made for the retraining of wool classers to adjust them to this new position. However, no provision has been made for the retraining of wool buyers to adjust them to this new position. What we are finding is that buyers employed at the intermediate levels of the various firms in fact are sabotaging the economies that can come from the new marketing methods. They are discriminating against the new techniques because they see in these techniques a threat to their jobs. Given the fact that nobody has yet displayed any interest in relocating these people and in demonstrating that their skills are important and required in the new system, we can understand their reaction. 
This reaction is reinforced by the traditional attitudes which processors overseas are expressing in Australia and is undermining, as it were, the confidence of growers in what fundamentally is a proper and economising direction in which to take the wool market. So we need to pay some attention to the social aspects of technological change in industry. We need to have research in this area and I would be very pleased to see under the wool research program more emphasis placed firstly on systems research, considering how each part integrates with the other; and secondly on social research insofar as social aspects are affected by technological changes in the wool industry. There are some clear areas for examination. I instance the one that I have mentioned - the situation of wool buyers. A precedent has been established with the wool classers and, indeed, some concern needs to be displayed towards the wool producers and the overseas processors. I recall that there was some difficulty in having the reports of the Objective Measurement Committee translated into Japanese. This is an incredible situation when we consider the large role that the Japanese play in the wool industry. 
Turning now to other areas of this Bill, we find that the next major item is the question of wool promotion. Currently, an investigation is being conducted into the efficiency of the International Wool Secretariat. I believe that this is long overdue. It is very important for the industry to see exactly how its money is being spent. It is clear that the function of promotion is required in any marketing operation but I have grave reservations about the efficiency of the International Wool Secretariat, Too many of my colleagues who have been employed in the economic section of the Wool Secretariat have made fundamental complaints about the way in which the Secretariat operates. I believe that the independent examination which is now being conducted within the Secretariat and which is supported by this Government, the New Zealand Government and other partners in the International Wool Secretariat is long overdue and may provide us with a sound basis for at least a reassurance of the efficiency of the International Wool Secretariat, if not a restructuring of it. 
Wool promotion is a subtle thing. It takes a great deal of examination to find its impact. It needs to be geared to individual markets, and therefore it is difficult to evaluate. But we can judge the quality of the information that is fed into the wool promotion system. We can judge the quality of the research work produced for the people who make judgments about wool promotion. It is a condemnation of the whole system, of the International Wool Secretariat and of the whole Australian Wool Corporation that this information has never been published and that the people who provide this information have never been exposed to the rigours of criticism by their contemporaries. 
All this information has been regarded as confidential and secret. Most of it is purely functional, in the way it describes the wool market, and it should have been exposed to the criticism of the peers and contemporaries of the research workers employed by the International Wool Secretariat and the Australian Wool Corporation. I find great cause for complaint about this aspect of the activities of the International Wool Secretariat. I hope that the current examination of the promotional activities of the International Wool Secretariat and the Australian Wool Corporation will result in a freeing of research activities in these areas and that we can be privileged to read, if we care to, exactly what are the inputs of these organisations. 
I turn now to marketing administrative costs. Under this heading in the second reading speech the administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation are covered. I have no complaint about the way in which the Australian Wool Corporation is operating. Indeed, I believe that its predecessor, the Australian Wool Commission, carried out a marvellous operation in the wool market. It is perhaps some cause for regret that the $53m paid in a wool deficiency payment was not used to purchase wool. It is easy to say that in retrospect, but the blame for that action not taking place at that time lies nowhere. However, there is a lesson for the future. I would be very disappointed if in the case of another slump in wool prices we did not allow the Australian Wool Corporation to move more heavily into the wool market and to purchase considerably more wool that it did in the last operation. 
History has shown that the wool market is subject to variations. History has shown that it will be extremely difficult to average out wool prices. History has demonstrated the need for an insurance-type operation in the wool market. In the Australian Wool Corporation we now have the mechanism by which we can carry out such an insurance operation. I hope that that particular function of the Australian Wool Corporation will not close the eyes of the industry to the fact that it can carry out that function without being a monopoly in the total market. For example, it would be a tragedy if in wool testing, as in wool research, the Australian Wool Corporation called the tune. Consider the position of a wool grower who had some argument with the specification of his wool. Under a wool corporation which purchased that wool and which also ran the only wool testing authority, to whom would the wool grower appeal? The wool corporation would make its judgment in regard to the specification on which the wool grower's income was based. The wool grower would then have to turn to the wool testing authority which was run by the wool corporation. Clearly this would be an unsatisfactory situation for the seller of wool. It would be equally unsatisfactory for the purchaser of wool who might have some argument with the specification of the wool. Wool testing, like wool research, needs to be separated from the marketing function and carried out by a separate organisation. More than that, wool testing needs to be carried out in a competitive atmosphere in which there is more than one wool testing operation so that individuals who are in the market place - the seller and the buyer - can have the testing checked. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is it true that the proposal to fund States for the Commonwealth aid roads grants involves an increase of 37 per cent in funds paid to the States by the Australian Government? Is it also true that these funds will release State monies otherwise spent on shire and local roads for use by those shires? 
First I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  for the way in which they presented the Address-in-Reply tonight. I would also like to extend my congratulations to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  the first Liberal to express concern for poverty in Australia. It is somewhat ironic that it should happen that, in referring to poverty, he had to use the first report that systematically studied the extent of poverty in Australia, a report that was not prepared when his Party was in power, but in the term of the present Government.  His  concern for poverty is gratifying and T am sure that we can look forward to his support for our welfare and low income housing policies which have been outlined in the Governor-General's Speech. 
There was another reference to poverty, from the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  In this context - as it turned out, quite irrelevant to the subject under debate - he referred to the commitment by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to raise pensions lo 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. On this matter I shall quote from a letter written by the Secretary of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation to the Melbourne 'Age'. She said: 
In reply to the assertion by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition.  Mr Lynch,  that under the Labor Government pensioners have become the lost generation, the facts are,  Mr Lynch  imputes to the Labor Government what happened during 23 years of LiberalCountry Party rule. 
This is not my opinion; it is the opinion of the Secretary of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation. This is her opinion: 
From the time the Menzies Government came to office the pension began to decline in relation to the average weekly earnings - 24 per cent of AWE when the Chifley Government left office, by .1954 it was down to 20.4 per cent 
With the 1970-71 Budget of 50c the basic rate pension fell to 16.2 per cent of AWE while the standard rate fell to 18.3 per cent. 
I continue the quote. The secretary of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation said: 
This 50c rise exposed to the nation the LiberalCountry Party policy of perpetuating poverty in a land of abundance and great national wealth. 
There is the answer to the honourable member for Boothby. Even at this stage, after 18 months in government, we have been able to raise the basic pension rate to just on 20 per cent of average weekly earnings and the standard rate to 22.7 per cent of average weekly earnings. If we brought pensions up to 25 per cent the Opposition would be the first to condemn the Government for fuelling inflation. 
The 18 months of Labor government has been a bonanza for Eden-Monaro. We find the impact of Labor government throughout the electorate in simple things and yet such important things. I instance the simplicity of bringing the National Capital Development Commission together with the Queanbeyan City Council and the Yarrowlumla Shire Council to consider the impact of the expansion of the Australian Capital Territory on the surrounding area. This has been done. We have created a working relationship with local authorities around the borders of the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  in bringing down the Canberra Water Supply (Googong Dam) Bill, also introduced a commitment on behalf of this Government to assist in providing Queanbeyan with proper sewerage facilities. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has agreed that the Australian Government will meet half the cost of a railway bridge over which the New South Wales Government procrastinated for a whole 18 months. 
It has been agreed that the roads radiating out of the Australian Capital Territory should receive special attention from this Government. Of course my electorate, like all the other electorates in this country, will benefit from the commitment to the national roads system. The New South Wales Government, adopting its usual hypocritical attitude, blames the Federal Government for taking the national responsibility for national roads. It is unknown to the New South Wales Government that a national government should take a national responsibility. It is unknown to the New South Wales Government that money invested in national roads will release State funds to be diverted to the shires for their roads. These things are unknown to the New South Wales Government because all it has been concerned with is the opportunity to make petty political capital out of whatever is going. 
In my electorate we have also seen the commencement of pre-schools. In the State electorates within Eden-Monaro, one of which is represented by an Independent member and the others by Liberal and Country Party members there is not one pre-school. Not one preschool has been built in the Goulburn State electorate, which has a Country Party member, simply because that member was not interested enough to ensure one was built. In Eden-Monaro the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has a wide mandate that allows it to operate effectively and sensibly. We have a concern in the electorate for the first time with the historic buildings that form a part of our national heritage. The election result, which is the subject of the introductory paragraph of the Governor-General's Speech, was indeed an interesting result in Eden-Monaro. The Australian Country Party emerged for the first time as the 3-States Party. Let us recall the play on words - the 'National' this and the 'National' that. 'National' is a word the Country Party will not be able to use again, because it has come out of the 1974 election representing 3 States. It is no longer the National Party. It has lost its Western Australian representatives. The members of the Country Party have paid for the impulsive decision to precipitate an election which had no relevance. 
The speech we have just heard from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  is a clearcut example of Australian Country Party fear tactics. There is no evidence whatsoever that this Government will pull out of the wool market over the next 2 days. The only people who are saying this are the Country Party members. They are creating a fear and a myth. They are creating this great threat to the Australian wool grower so that they may shout triumphantly that they have beaten this Government once again. The fact that they have built their whole argument on straw needs to be exposed tonight. There has been no suggestion that the Australian Government will not stand by the Australian Wool Corporation through the next 2 days of wool selling. In fact there is no argument about this matter. The Wool Corporation has the funds it needs to stand in the wool market at 300c for 21 micron wool. 
Compare the situation that exists today with what used to be the position. We hear about Government support. Bill Vines was a lonely man when he leant on the Liberal and Country 
Party Government to stand behind the Australian Wool Commission in the market at onefifth of the present level of support. He was not supported. That Government pulled out and eventually had to bring in a wool price deficiency scheme that cost the country $52m. That sum would have been far better spent on wool. There can be no question that the next 2 days in the wool market is a live issue. If we are being objective we should be talking really about the rationale behind the mechanism that exists in the wool market. What should the Wool Corporation do to quash this sort of fear mongering which creates such instability in the wool industry? The Wool Corporation ought to be giving market intelligence to the whole community so that we may understand exactly the rationale on which it is working. There is no earthly market reason why we should not have this information. We have this incredible carry over from the Bill Gunn days when a piece of information that was not known to the rest of the community was regarded as a gem. 
We need to have from the Wool Corporation a wool marketing intelligence system which tells us, each and every one, what the rationale is behind the Corporation's support of the market today or any other day. There is no question that there will be opportunities for the sort of fear raising tactics that we have heard from the honourable member for Gwydir tonight while ever the Wool Corporation keeps the community at large in the dark. What is its rationale on market support? Why should it not tell the world what are its support prices? There were times when wool buyers came to me, as an officer in charge of the wool marketing section of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, and asked me what the reserve price of wool was at the time. I could give it to them, not because I was privy to any confidential information but because the market mechanism works like any other mechanism. If one knows a few elements of it one can tell what the rest are. It is absurd for the Wool Corporation to say that its schedule of prices is secret to the world. Within half an auction sale that schedule of prices will be known to everybody who understands the market mechanism. It is time that the Corporation came clean on this particular aspect and got rid of the uncertainties that have allowed the honourable member for Gwydir again tonight to beat this fear drum and to create this feeling of uncertainty among the people whom he purports to represent. I believe that this tactic needs to be exposed at the beginning. I have been very fortunate tonight in having the opportunity to do so. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I am relieved to hear that the conversation did not take place between- 
Certainly,  Mr Speaker.  It is suggested that my allegations were untrue. The basis for my statement is to be found in the fact that we have - myself and others - a written statement from one individual and a verbal description by another of a conversation which occurred between three members of the Wool Corporation and a leading farmer. 
This conversation took place in the Australia Club in Sydney in which the members of the Corporation claimed that they had had discussions with the Leader of the 
Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  the purpose of which was to establish a floor price which was beyond commercial justification purely in order to embarrass the Government. I am pleased to hear that that conversation between these people and the Leader and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party did not take place. But it does not in any way detract from the fact that the conversation referred to in the Australian Club did take place. 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond- Leader of the Australian Country Party) -  Mr Speaker,  the allegations were made outside this House- 
They were made here last night. 

 Mr SINCLAIR (New England)- I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr WHAN (Eden-Monaro)-  Mr Speaker,  1 seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. A reading of the Hansard record of my previous personal explanation will reveal that I have accepted the statements made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair). 
The misrepresentation revolves around the fact that I have in no way and at no time said that either of these 2 gentlemen were involved in the conversation in the Australian Club. The conversation in the Australian Club took place between 3 members of the Wool Corporation, and they, the 3 members of the Wool Corporation, claimed that they had another external conversation with the Leader and the Deputy Leader of the Country Party. Now this is a situation of which we have evidence. I accept the situation that exists tonight. Quite clearly - this was not accepted in the subsequent explanations of the Leader and the Deputy Leader of the Country Party - I accept their position and I am grateful to hear what they had to say. 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond- Leader of the Australian Country Party) - The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  is misinterpreting the point of order that we are taking and that is that he publicly on television tonight said: 
I have evidence that three senior members of the Australian Wool Commission have met with the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Country Party and that these members of the Commission have said that they will keep prices up this week in order to embarrass the Government. 
That is a public statement. These three men who are supposed to have had a conversation in the Australian Club have never said these things publicly. But the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has made that statement publicly. What we are saying is that we expect an apology from him in this House. He is just making an allegation on hearsay evidence and if he has evidence he should produce it in this House; otherwise he is committing a breach of privilege by stating outside this House a remark that is a libellous remark as far as the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  is concerned and as far as I am concerned. 
The proposed Googong Dam will be situated in my electorate. It is a project which is necessary to ensure the supply of water to the rapidly expanding population of the CanberraQueanbeyan region. In his second reading speech on this Bill the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  also referred to many other matters of concern to my electorate. In particular, I was very pleased to hear him acknowledge the difficulties that are being experienced in regard to the Queanbeyan sewerage system. He defined the 2 solutions to that problem as being either the construction of a more advanced water treatment plant at Queanbeyan or the acceptance of Queanbeyan sewage into the Canberra system. The sewerage problem has become an extremely difficult one for the city of Queanbeyan. It is one of many that the city faces because of its very explosive population rate and the fact that its local government facilities are just not capable of coping with the rate of expansion that is initiated from Canberra. The acknowledgment by the Minister of the very real problem being experienced by the people of Queanbeyan will be very much appreciated by them. 
It is also significant to note that the Minister referred in his second reading speech to the work of a group, consisting of representatives of the National Capital Development Commission, the Queanbeyan City Council and the Yarrowlumla Shire Council, endeavouring to help to resolve the difficulties that are created by the expansion of Canberra in this region. In this respect the intention to build the Googong Dam means much more to those in the region on the border of the Australian Capital Territory than the fact that the dam will be there to supply water. These things sometimes cause difficulties to individuals. In particular, the problems associated with land resumption for the construction of the dam itself, for the surrounds and for the pipeline have been exercising the minds of many people in the Queanbeyan area. I feel that it would be very useful if those people were to be reassured by my reading clause 1 1 (3) of the Bill, which states: 
In the exercise of the rights referred to in subsection (1), the Commission and the Minister shall have regard to the interests of persons who are the owners or occupiers of land through or past which waters from the Googong Dam area flow, and shall not act in a manner that interferes with the exercise and enjoyment by such persons of rights expressed to be conferred on them by or under a law of the State of New South Wales except to such an extent as is reasonably necessary for the purpose of - 
collecting and maintaining in a dam or other work constructed under this Act a quantity of water reasonably necessary for the purpose for which the dam or work is maintained 
There are other parts of the Bill that provide protection for the people who will be involved. In particular, there is clause 13 (1), which covers the. question of compensation for damage caused during the construction of the dam. I have been in touch with the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  concerning that problem.  His  Department has assured me that the individuals concerned will be approached as individuals and that on-site inspections will take place, particularly in regard to the pipeline, which is currently causing concern in Queanbeyan. Also contained in the Minister's second reading speech is acceptance of the responsibility for solving the problem of pollution of the Molonglo River from the Captain's Flat mining area, which is also in my electorate. 
I believe that the sum total of the Googong project will be to enhance the recreational facilities of the region and to remove 2 very serious sores that have existed in past years; that is, pollution of the Molonglo River and the sewerage problems in Queanbeyan. The recreational aspects of the proposed Googong Dam have also exercised the minds of my constituents, particularly those who reside in the immediate vicinity of the site. In particular, queries have been raised as to whether the population at large will be able to fish or sail on the new dam. I am advised by the NCDC that fishing is possible, subject to the New South Wales regulations, and that sailing should be possible. No position has yet been adopted in regard to motor boats. These things, plus the enhancement of the area around the Googong Dam, should provide a new venue for recreation not only for the people of the Queanbeyan area but also for people from Canberra. 
I welcome this Bill because it is at once functional and it makes a significant contribution to the quality of life in the Queanbeyan region. I welcome it, too, because it has displayed, on behalf of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and his Department, a sensitivity to the problems that exist in this region - a sensitivity that is the direct acknowledgment of the fact that these problems are caused , by the rapid expansion of the population in Canberra. Having made those few points, I am content to let the matter lie. I congratulate the Minister on initiating this project, and I look forward to its completion in the very near future. 
The Opposition is seeking to censure the Government for reflecting upon the integrity of the Australian Wool Corporation. In my view the integrity of the Australian Wool Corporation was compromised by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. The events of last week are just an extension of the weaknesses inherent in the Wool Corporation. They hail their foundations in the previous Australian Wool Board. In presenting the following evidence to the House I hope to establish a prima facie case for an independent investigation of the structure and activities of the Wool Corporation and its predecessor, the Australian Wool Board. 
My evidence is drawn from a long professional association with the wool industry. The results of my own research into wool marketing have been published in over 60 articles and papers. A general summary of those results and those of other research workers in the field is available in the report of the Wool Board's Objective Measurement Committee and in a paper entitled 'Wool Marketing', which I published in a journal entitled 'Wool Technology' in December 1973. In that paper and also as a member of the Crawford Committee which suggested the establishment of the Wool Commission, as well as prior to that time, I advocated a price insurance mechanism that contained both a flexible reserve price and a floor price. It was the previous Government, under an Australian Country Party Minister for Primary Industry, that prepared the present Act, which only makes allowance for a flexible reserve price. That should be remembered in the light of a Press statement yesterday by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  in which he castigated the Government for not instructing the Corporation to establish a fixed reserve price. 
In essence, the reforms outlined in recent wool marketing research could save wool growers over $100m a year. The major barrier to the introduction of such innovations lies in the attitudes and affiliations of the present members of the Wool Corporation. Nobody on the Corporation has a wool technology background and is equipped to grasp the implications of the new developments. An examination of the qualifications of the present membership has been given to this House already by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  It is instructive to draw the attention of honourable members, as he has done, to the fact that in this House - the House of Representatives - no one can hold an office of profit under the Crown. The situation is clearly different in the New South Wales Upper House. 
Two other members of the Corporation have been directly responsible for the long succession of wool marketing failures perpetuated by the Wool Board and the Wool Commission. I have already set out a detailed criticism of these events in a booklet entitled 'Proposals for Wool Marketing in Australia' published in 1969. None of the charges made in that booklet has ever been answered even though they involve members of the Country Party, 2 members of the Corporation and a senior staff member. Perhaps this booklet would be of some assistance to  Sir Harry  Budd, the editor of the Country Party newspaper 'The Land' who, I understand, has been instructed to bucket me and the Australian Government. Most of the failures in wool marketing were due to the fact that the members of the Wool Board tended to protect the narrow interests of the groups which put them on to the Board rather than the interests of wool growers as a whole. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the Chair to rectify an error on my part. During the debate in this House last Tuesday on the motion of censure I referred to a Press statement issued by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  In fairness to him I wish to acknowledge at this, the earliest opportunity since the matter has been drawn to my attention, that I was in error in referring to his support for a reserve of 300c for 21 micron wool. 
I had several notes on this matter and the conjunction of paragraphs in my notes led me to believe that the honourable member's statement and another statement by the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association were such that they were the one Press statement. The views expressed by the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association were not those of the honourable member for Gippsland. I apologise to the honourable member for Gippsland. Having checked the validity of the case presented and recognising that subsequent events have reinforced the position that I established on that day, I repeat that I tender to the House and the honourable member for Gippsland my apology. 
I consider that the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices perform at least 2 very important functions in improving the efficiency of pricing in Australia. The first function is the surveillance of prices. Certainly this is the area that attracts the most publicity, and the performance of the Prices Justification Tribunal tends to be judged on its activity in this area. For example, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred to the success of the Tribunal in this area. In the short time since its inception there have been some 200 cases where price increases have been reduced by the companies involved without a further public inquiry. 
The second factor though, which in my opinion will eventually become much more important, is the development of a body of knowledge about market price relationships within Australia. The classic economic concepts of competition and price efficiency are not really adequate to explain many of the pricing relationships in the fluid market under the varying circumstances that exist in the market place in Australia. The consumer tends to blame rising prices on the retailer because the conjunction of the 2 parties in the marketing chain is so close. Perhaps the more politically oriented consumer may transfer the blame to excessive wage rises or monopoly control, depending on his or her political affiliations. In fact, price relationships are a delightful blend of economic, political and legal influences which have received very little attention in the past. 
As the body of information accumulates as a result of the inquiries of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, I feel that attention will turn more and more on the whole sequence of price events which finally results in the consumer price. For example, one series of events which might typify the production and sale of a product could be as follows: The inputs of material, labour and services into a factory, the product then passing from the factory to the distributor and on to a retailer and then the consumer. The final price of this particular product is the result of influences at at least 7 separate pricing points in the flow of events in the process from raw material to the consumer's table. 
In addition to the classic supply and demand equations there are differences in bargaining power at each of these pricing points. Perhaps the best basic assumption in analysing bargaining power is that everybody is greedy, hence people will always attempt to get the maximum return from the position in which they find themselves. The relative bargaining strength of the different parties would involve such factors as the degree of fragmentation on either side of the bargaining process, the strength of the negotiator in the productive process - that is, does the negotiator have a monopoly over one supply or another - the choice of the bargaining position in the sense that the person bargaining can choose around what level he is prepared to negotiate the final outcome, the legislation that bears on the particular bargaining position, and the degree of understanding of issues involved in the bargaining process. The introduction of the Prices Justification Tribunal provides a flexible offset to existing bargaining positions. It can be brought to bear at any point in the price formation process. The present legislation widens the scope of the involvement of the Prices Justification Tribunal and thereby gives it increased flexibility to operate in any position in the market chain. 
Through acquiring its knowledge from a wide ranging experience in marketing activities the Prices Justification Tribunal will be in a position to improve the bargaining process, provide a better consumer understanding of the pricing process and certainly improve the level of political debate on such issues as prices. Further, the Prices Justification Tribunal can act as an umpire in the very cut-throat competitive position that exists at every pricing point. We have an unstable position when we reach a level of efficient competition. On the one side we have monopoly domination. On the other we have a position which has been very adequately described in a book titled 'How Much Price Competition' by Milton Moore, who has carried out a study of the Canadian position. 
In contrast to the monopoly position to which I have referred already we have the situation which exists in Canada. In Canada it is agreed that pure competition is quite rare and probably becoming even rarer. Unfortunately several of the remaining pure competition industries are by such ease of entry becoming chronically sick. A significant proportion of firms in the industry earn less than the opportunity cost of the capital and labour they employ. The labour is usually that of the owner and his family and it, along with the little capital employed, could earn more if moved to other uses. So we have this conjunction of events on the one side of the economic spectrum - a peasant farming type of industrial organisation where people eke out an existence because of the very nature of competition. On the other side we have a monopoly control and thereby a non-competitive pricing relationship. Clearly in this whole field of competition it is necessary to have an umpire and the Prices Justification Tribunal will become that umpire as it acquires more and more information and as it develops its experience and achieves a reputation amongst those people involved in the pricing processes. 
Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware of the serious shortage of fuel oil and gas in the Queanbeyan and Cooma areas? Can he give the reasons for these shortages? What prospects are there for those shortages to be overcome in the near future? 
The Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill 1974 represents a continuing development in assisting the dairy industry to adjust to changed conditions. This Bill contains provision for farm reconstruction and assistance for farmers who decide to leave the industry. The need for this legislation becomes clear when we realise that the number of dairy farms in Australia has fallen from 48,415 in 1970 to 34,140 in 1974, a reduction of 14,275 in that 4-year period. In New South Wales there has been a systematic decline in the number of dairy farms since the peak year of 1933 when there were 23,550 registered dairy farms in that State. By 1972, the number had fallen to 7,072. Now there are only 5,623 dairy farms in New South Wales. The largest reductions occurred in the years 1969 and 1971. More than 1,000 dairy farmers left the industry in each of those years. 
It is significant that the peak year, 1933, was also the peak depression year and the state of dairy technology at that time allowed a very free entry to the industry. The industry was labour intensive. Most cows were hand milked and, by share farming, people with little capital could become dairy farmers. As economic conditions improved, the incentive to stay on dairy farms declined. Today many of the sons of dairy farmers have the choice of alternative occupations - a substantial change from earlier years. I am one of those people and I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that if I had had no choice I would have felt condemned to live a life I could not enjoy. Many of the sons of dairy farmers have left the dairy industry. We find the reflection of this in the aging of the dairy farmer entrepreneur. 
Many developments have now coincided to change the traditional easy entry into dairy farming. Firstly, the technology of the industry has progressed to the stage where hand milking has been eliminated, stripping after machine milking is no longer necessary, milking shed procedures have been streamlined and, if I may say so, the cows in the herd are more conformist than they used to be, possibly because they are more contented. There was a day when some cows were tolerated for 'behaviour that would not be tolerated in present milking sheds, such behaviour as putting their feet in the milk bucket. Nowadays the herds are culled and the cows are expected to fit into the .machinelike operation of the dairy farm industry. 
The result of these developments is a reduction in the labour component and an increase in the level of capital required for dairy farming in Australia. Herds are larger and farm productivity has shown a steady increase. The best summary of this development is set out in the report of economic survey conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics into the Australian dairy farming industry. It states: 
During the .past decade, the Australian dairyfarming industry has adjusted rapidly to changing economic circumstances: farms have expanded in area; productivity per farm and per cow has increased markedly; smaller herds have been withdrawn from dairying or grown larger; and the industry has become more concentrated in areas with  a  better environment for dairy production. In the face of declining numbers of dairy farms and dairy cattle.  total Australian milk production continued to increase, and reached a peak in 1969-70. 
The report further states: 
The increase in average incomes was notable in view of the comparatively small increase in average prices of dairy products and the continuous rise in costs during the intervening period. 
That refers to the period between the survey to which I am referring and the previous survey. The report goes on: 
Indeed, the rise in average farm prices occurred solely in the wholemilk sector, and average manufacturing milk prices remained unchanged. There was only a slight increase (about 1 per cent) in the proportion of milk production delivered for the higher priced wholemilk trade. Moreover, it as clear that the results cannot be attributed to increases in other income, as the proportion of gross returns from non-dairy farm enterprises remained unchanged at about IS per cent of the total. 
One important reason for the rise in incomes was the greater average size of farm, which resulted from the exodus of many small units from the industry and to a lesser extent, enlargement of the farm areas. 
The greatest contribution to higher average incomes was the increase in farm productivity. This can be partially ascribed to a shift in the location of dairy farming, since a bigger proportion of the farms that have remained in dairying were in environments more favourable to that enterprise. 
It is no longer possible now to regard dairy farming as an easy entry business. On average a farm needs to be backed by capital of $70,000, and that is sure to increase in future years. Given the trends in farm technology and increasing herd sizes, the farm reconstruction scheme is an essential aid to the adaptation of existing farms. That reconstruction scheme is further developed in the present Bill. 
A second development that has also had a major impact on the dairying industry has been the change in the market outlets for milk products. This has been a change in both the final market outlet and the type of product sold. Two examples illustrate this point. In 1962-63 our butter sales to the United Kingdom were 72,000 tons. In 1972-73 they had fallen to 31,000 tons. From a position of dominance, the United Kingdom market now takes only 18 per cent of our total exports. Our production of dried and powdered milk increased in the same period from 69,000 tons to 166,000 tons. So there has been a fundamental change in our export markets. It is essential that the industry respond by moving away from butter production into the production of milk products. 
The new scheme embodied in this Bill makes a very generous allowance for the costs involved in relation to the transfer from the butter operation to the full milk operation at the farm level. At a time of high interest rates, the new Bill makes allowance for interest free loans to help viable cream suppliers change over to the whole milk supply. Loans will be made available to finance purchase of refrigerated vats and, as necessary, to make related on-farm changes, for example, the modification of dairy premises, and the construction of roads more capable of handling milk tankers on the farm. Repayment periods will be flexible to meet individual circumstances. The application of the provisions under this Bill will require a close study of the individual position of dairy farmers. 'I am sure that the officers of the Department of Agriculture will provide this attention and give consideration to these individual needs. It will also require a close examination in a personal way of the dairyfarmers activities. I am absolutely certain we can rely on the discretion of the officers in this regard. 
Another development which is often overlooked in the local market by domestic milk consumers is the fact that there has been a transfer in operations from the butter market to the whole milk market, to the cheese market and to the processed milk market. Whereas before it was possible for the domestic milk consumer to operate on the assumption that there would be an adequate supply of cheap milk, this is rapidly becoming a piece of history. It is important when we consider future supplies for domestic milk consumption to realise that the cheese and processed milk markets offer a long term attractiveness which has become a feature of the brighter outlook for the dairy industry. So it is essential that in setting domestic milk prices at this time the long term supply position be considered. I am absolutely convinced that if the Canberra market is to be supplied at a reasonable price with a reasonable quantity over the next 10 years or more, the price must immediately rise by about 4c in order that the producer can have an adequate compensation for the effort put into the production of milk. As I have already mentioned, farm productivity has increased. In the areas that supply the domestic market productivity has increased by at least 50 per cent per farm from 1969 to the current day - a period during which there has been no increase in the return to the domestic producer. 
While productivity has taken up the slack over the last 5 years it has now become impossible for us to look forward to increases in productivity such as we have seen over recent years. After all, the total dairy farm population in New South Wales is now down to 5,600 dairy farmers. There are not many left to go. So productivity now has to be represented in terms of increased capital investment. There is a very limited return on the extra dollar that goes into dairy farms from now on. So in order to ensure increased supplies, or at least supplies adequate to meet the needs in cities such as Canberra, it is essential that the price be now established at a level which enables continued production by these enterprises. 
In regard to this question of the decline in dairy farming it is interesting to return to the Australian dairy farming industry survey and read the concluding paragraph of the summary in the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It states: 
Notwithstanding the considerable rise in average farm incomes between surveys, there was only a small decline in the proportion of low income farms. Fairly large proportions of the total number of farms in all regions were in the low income categories. These farms tended to cluster in certain areas, particularly in Queensland, where average incomes were less than found in the 1964 survey. In the other States, most of the low income farms were in the manufacturing sector and predominated on the north and south coast of New South Wales and in Western Australia. 
I cannot speak for the other areas but I can speak for the south coast of New South Wales where I suspect that the low income farms which remain are largely farms that will not be viable. So in my mind at least we have reached a stage there where it will be necessary to bring into operation another aspect of the legislation now under discussion. That aspect is to provide relocation assistance on the lines of the assistance provided under the rural reconstruction plan to help farmers who decide to leave the industry. This particular problem will be extremely difficult because it is not just a question of providing some economic incentive; it is also a question of social adjustment which must be carried out with the sort of social consideration and concern that characterise the entire Act. 
I believe that one of the most encouraging aspects of this particular Bill is that it is a response to a continuing development in the dairying industry. We do have experience in the Department of Agriculture to assure us that such actions will be taken with due concern for the social considerations involved. 
-The Bills now under consideration provide for a new wheat stabilisation plan for the 5 seasons beginning 1 October 1974. Subject to complementary legislation being enacted by the States, the present proposals will also provide for the continuing operation of the Australian Wheat Board for 2 seasons beyond the duration of the stabilisation plan in order to provide continuity in wheat marketing. Negotiations on the new scheme were conducted by the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  with the executive of the Australian Wheat Growers Federation. Unlike the previous  speaker  the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  I state that these negotiations were conducted in an atmosphere of co-operation and in a genuine attempt to arrive at a solution to a problem which has beset the wheat industry for many years. 
When the negotiations were concluded successfully with the Federation on 8 March, the  President  of the Australian Wheat Growers Federation,  Mr Max  Ridd, stated publicly that he was satisfied with the results of the negotiations.  Mr Max  Ridd as we have heard here this evening, was supposed to under some sort of duress. Certainly, he would not have been restrained in his comments if that had in fact been the case. The delays that were caused on that occasion were due purely and simply to the pigheadedness of Liberal and Country Party State governments. The State Labor Government of Western Australia had accepted the proposals. At the subsequent State election, a new Liberal Government was elected. That Government rejected the scheme. But, of course, that Government could not be outdone by the greatest obstructionist in the Australian States,  Sir Robert  Askin, who went to the polls and was elected on a mandate to obstruct any action by the Federal Government, regardless of whether it was beneficial.  Sir Robert  Askin stepped in and reneged on those arrangements.  His  Goverment reneged on the commitments that it had given to the wheat industry. What is more, these actions by the State Governments of Western Australia and of New South Wales were condemned at the time by the wheat industry. It was this sort of obstructionism that led to the major delay in the initiation of this Bill. 
The scheme itself is a determined and almost unique attempt to overcome a problem which was inherent in the previous schemes. This was the confrontation between the prices and costs of production of wheat on the one hand and, on the other hand, world prices which had no relationship or relativity at all to the costs of production in Australia. These 2 conflicting issues have been resolved for the first time in what is indeed a unique scheme. The variations in wheat prices on the international market are a fact of life and so, too, is the escalation in costs of production. 
We had all sorts of convolutions taking place under the previous Government. The wheat industry does not need to be reminded of the sequence  of events  leading up to the end of 1969 when the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in a quite summary way imposed quotas on the wheat industry at a time when many of the wheat growers had wheat in the ground. It is far better to give the wheat industry some sort of notice of what income its producers are likely to receive many years ahead and to cushion the income of wheat growers against the shocks of the international market. That is in fact what this scheme achieves. That is far better than a policy of imposing quotas in a mandatory way out of the blue on wheat growers when they have their seed in the ground, as happened under the previous Liberal-Country Parry Government in 1969. 
The first element of this scheme is a fixed domestic price for wheat to be adjusted annually from the level of the 1973-74 season and to be carried out by index methods through the life of the scheme. The second element is a stabilisation price covering all export wheat. Under the previous scheme, the guaranteed price covered only 200 million bushels. That was another of the limitations built into the scheme under the Liberal-Country Party Government. The present scheme covers all export wheat. This is clearly a major revolution in the protection of the wheat industry. In common with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation's proposals submitted to the Government last September, the major objective of the scheme is to give the wheat industry some security against price fluctuations without distorting the underlying trend in market prices and to keep the cost to the Australian pubhe within definite limits. The proposals from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation have been accepted in this new and unique scheme which moderates the impact of fluctuating prices on the international market. 
The scheme continues the orderly marketing arrangements through the Australian Wheat Board which the industry has enjoyed since the first post-war stabilisation scheme commenced under a Labor Government in 1 948. Once again we see a Labor Government introducing the first major innovation for the protection of the wheat industry against fluctuating incomes. The arrangements under which the Government guarantees borrowings from the Reserve Bank by the Australian Wheat Board will continue. These arrangements have enabled the Board to maintain the first advance payment over the years even when average returns have fallen to lower levels. With reference to first advance payments, immediately on taking office, this Government agreed to demands which had been refused by the previous  speaker  in this debate,  the  honourable member for New England, who was then Minister for Primary Industry. Those demands were to increase the first advance payment by 10c to $1.20 a bushel. This action must be contrasted in the wheat grower's mind with the attitude of the honourable member for New England when, in October 1972, as Minister for Primary Industry, he pointblank refused to increase the first advance payment by 10c. 
We have now struck the chord. We hear the Country Party - 

 - Mr Speaker, I thank you for your protection from the kindergarten behaviour on my right. The reaction was due simply to 2 undeniable facts: On taking office this Government raised the lint advance by 10c a bushel, while in October 1972 the Liberal-Country Party Government, in which the honourable member for New England was the Minister for Primary Industry, refused point blank to do this. There is no argument about that. That is a statement of the position as it existed and as it was known by every wheat grower in the industry. The stabilisation price for the year 1974-75 will be set at $2 a bushel- considerably more than the guaranteed $1.60 a bushel which applied in 1973-74. The stabilisation price will be adjusted in each of the succeeding 4 years by the application of the formula which was agreed to by the industry and the Government. The formula will move stabilisation prices in line with market trends and in particular will cushion sharp declines in overseas market values. This, of course, is one of the unique features of this scheme, this shock absorber system which has been built into it. 
With grower returns linked more closely to the market place a more economic allocation of resources will be encouraged within the wheat industry and the rural sector generally, and it will go a long way towards providing that flexibility that the honourable member for New England appealed for in terms of alternative uses of the farm. Under past schemes there existed a guaranteed price which moved in line with changes in assessed costs of production. This proposal is a major revolution in the protection of wheat growers' incomes against fluctuating prices. The honourable member for New England said that the present agreement ignores the costs of production and gives reduced protection to growers. Let me quote from a speech made in this House on 10 October 1968 by the present Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  In that speech he said that the simplest explanation for the need for change in the cost formula- I refer here to the cost of production index- was that in IS consecutive years average returns to growers had been less than the assessed cost of production, yet the industry had expanded at an unprecedented rate. He then said: 
It is demonstrably prosperous. There can be no doubt that the returns from wheat marketed have been remunerative. 
This was the present Leader of the Country Party saying that the cost of production index had been obviously out of kilter with the facts of life. Yet here we have the sort of criticism that he was then answering being levelled at the Government by the honourable member for New England. In the 1973-74 season, as I have mentioned already, the Government raised the first advance by 10c a bushel. It was a clear response from a concerned Government to the conditions that existed in the wheat industry and a response to the need that existed in the wheat industry at that time. 
There can be no question that this Government has done more for the agricultural sector than any government in the last 23 years. In one fell swoop it has given to the agricultural sector, including wheat growers many of whom run sheep, a fixed reserve price. Look at the saga that existed on the Opposition benches over that issue. The scheme was bankrolled by $150m of Government money. I return to another point made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  He complained that wheat harvesting in New South Wales and in Australia generally will be curtailed by fuel shortages. Imagine what would have happened if by some disaster he and his colleagues had been elected to government. Those wheat farmers would now be paying extraordinary prices for the petrol used in harvesting, simply because the oil companies of the world had them under their thumbs. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
This new scheme for stabilising wheat prices represents a major step forward in the protection of wheat producers against fluctuating incomes. It cushions them from the sudden shocks such as the one brought about when quotas were introduced under the previous Government at the end of 1969. It cushions the wheat growers against this very disastrous change in expectations. This scheme has been designed in consultation with the wheat industry and one of the things that the Country Party cannot accept is that industries such as wheat and wool, and other industries, are now prepared to consult and work in co-operation with this Government. Honourable members opposite still think they have a mandate to govern. They still think that they are the only ones who have a right to be addressed by the agricultural sector. The fact is that this scheme has been worked out in consultation and co-operation with the wheat industry and this sticks in the throat of the Country Party. 
This scheme embodies in it all sorts of commitments which are new and revolutionary- credit commitments which, as the previous  speaker  has indicated, will be embodied in this Bill by an amendment giving the Wheat Board the opportunity for the first time to use credit outside that available within the Government, giving it more flexibility in their trading operation, more ability to make independent judgments, having the independent source of finance which we will give it. These are the sorts of operations which indicate that this Government has confidence in the people making marketing decisions on behalf of agriculture instead of, as we are often told and as the agricultural people are forced to hear from the Country Party, having no confidence at all in their judgment, having some sort of desire to take over these operations in some centralised bureaucratic fashion. The facts are there for any objective person to see. By giving these powers to the marketing boards we are now placing a vote of confidence in their judgment to manage their affairs on behalf of the people they represent. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of a report of the National Roads and Motorists Association which condemns the condition of the Hume Highway? Is he aware also of a fatal accident which occurred because of a semi-trailer hitting a pothole and then ramming a car and killing a woman? Does the Minister have any suggestions as to how the condition of this road and other roads which service the Australian Capital Territory can be quickly improved? 
-First there is one myth that needs to be laid. It was mentioned by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  The actual situation is that both the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  and I have worked on farms, not that this really matters. I probably enjoyed more moments of concentration under a cow than the honourable member for Corangamite has ever done. As for the honourable member for Macarthur, he was a practising farmer until 4 years ago. The fact remains that we have both had practical experience. Herein lies the great difficulty under which members of the Opposition labour. Practical experience must be blended with a sensible and rational approach to the problems of the rural community. It is no longer good enough to know the geography of the 4 teats of a cow and come here to represent the dairying industry. One needs a little more profound knowledge than this particular piece of information. However let us not dwell on the shortcomings so manifest in the Opposition; rather let us consider the record that this Government has established in the short time it has been in office. 
We have had the fearmongers in the Australian Country Party tramping around the countryside generating great opposition to a government which has given more to the rural community in terms of money than any previous government. Let us examine the facts of life. Outlays on rural industries, without the major social advancements this Government is making in the present Budget for 1974-75, total $487.6m compared with $329.5m in the last Budget the previous Government brought down. In other words this Government is giving more than $150m more or half as much again as was spent by the previous Government on the agricultural sector. The net assistance, after we receive the taxes that are paid by the agricultural sector, is $309.2m compared with $283.9m in the previous Government's last Budget. After taking into account outlays and receipts this represents an increase of $ 15.4m. 
We hear the words "That is not a true figure' from people who are more familiar with the udder of a cow than with the facts of the situation. All the honourable member needs to do to confirm what I have said is to extract the relevant figures from the Budget and make his own comparisons. The Government proposes to pay $ 1 5.4m more to the agricultural industries of Australia in this Budget than the previous Government did in its last Budget. Let us examine some of the other things the Government has done for the agricultural sector. For the first time we have placed a floor price plan in the wool market. What has the industry said about this?  Mr Von  Bibra, announcing the fact that the industry had reached agreement with the Government, said that this agreement represented a milestone in the history of the wool industry. He added: 
After very many years of dissension and debate within the industry and with governments we now have a commercially viable marketing proposal which can overcome the crippling uncertainty that has been evident in recent times in the wool market. 
What was the attitude of the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  when this proposal was put earlier? On 1 5 November 1970 he said: 
I repeat what I have said on earlier occasions: The scheme is not intended to force or defy the wool market, but to test it and to get the best and most realistic price the market can pay. 
I am afraid those growers who believe wool users can be forced- in this day of ready availability of cheaper though perhaps inferior textile substitutes- to pay a certain price for wool are not facing up to the realities of the situation. 
With those words he dismissed the proposition that we should have a fixed reserve price in the wool industry. We heard the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  quoting a newspaper headline condemning the Government. It was to the effect that the price of wool had slumped to 250c a kilo. It would have slumped way below that if this Government had not put a support in the market. What I am saying is really grating on honourable members opposite. 
We have done something for the agricultural industry, and we are starting to reveal the facade of lies that honourable members opposite are putting up before the agricultural sector. 
Let us look at some more steps taken by the Government. It has provided for a first advance payment to wheat growers. We dealt with this matter recently. It has also provided for an increase in credit facilities for the Australian Wheat Board so that it can now make advances even on the second payment. The Government has introduced a dairy adjustment scheme involving the expenditure of $28m. It has established an animal health laboratory, which the previous Government rejected. An amount of $5 6m will be spent on this laboratory to protect the livestock industry of this country from exotic diseases such as foot and mouth disease. The Government has set aside $ 1 1.6m for an isolated children's allowance. Here comes the real rub. If ever a government has done anything for the rural communities in social terms, it is this Government. It has acted after years of complete neglect by the previous Government. Honourable members opposite are laughing. They are the people who would not give an isolated children's grant. They are more concerned about being farmers than they are about being fathers. Out of the $21m given to local government in New South Wales by the Grants Commission, $1 lm or over 50 per cent went to the rural communities. Of the increased grant of $1,1 20m for roads, 58 per cent will be spent in rural areas, compared with 49 per cent provided by the previous Government under the Commonwealth aid roads scheme. 
'Peanuts', we hear from the gallery beside me. 'Peanuts and lollies,' cried the boy upstairs. The honourable member says that $ 1,120m is peanuts. What was the $800m that the previous Government gave to the States for road construction in the 3 years before 1972? 
It was chicken feed, indeed. They are not even peanuts, because peanuts have a market price. Grants of up to $2 5 m are to be made for unemployment relief. Most of this money will go to the rural sector. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member for Hume has been continually interjecting. He will cease. 
He is being provoked by the facts. The point is that honourable members opposite cannot stand the truth. The Government has provided a national disaster relief fund of $44.7m, and funds for the national estate. An incredible amount of money is being spend on education in the rural sectors. This was demonstrated for the benefit of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in my own electorate in Bega recently where he had complaints that the New South Wales Department of Education was wasting the money that the Government had given it for education. Education is certainly a matter of primary concern in rural areas and it has been given a completely new boost by this Government. In this Budget, technical education, which is of such profound importance for the rural sector of the community, will be getting the biggest injection of funds it has ever had. 
I turn now to one of the great and difficult problems in the country- poverty. What government has ever really faced up to this crucial and terrible problem of poverty in the country? When we took office, poverty in the rural areas was higher than it had ever been and certainly higher than in any other sector of our society. We now have various measures that are necessary to alleviate this poverty to some extent. The Government is providing aged people's homes and higher pensions which the Government promised will be raised to 25 per cent of average weekly income. 
We hear the honourable member for New England complaining about a lack of railway trucks. What hypocrisy this is. Why are the States short of railway trucks? It is because the previous Government did nothing in regard to the matter. What have we done? In the Budget we have made allowance for 500 railway trucks to be leased to the States this year and for 800 railway trucks to be leased to the States next year. Such an allowance is a tangible demonstration of our concern for what was a serious shortage of railway rolling stock when we took office. But honourable members opposite say that we are doing nothing for the country. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  is in the United Kingdom to protect the sugar industry. Where was the Leader of the Country Party when the crucial European economic negotiations were taking place? Australia should have been represented. What about the statement made by the Leader of the Country Party in 1 97 1 at a symposium on national rural policy? He said: 
From what some people tell me, they would see this as a mythical topic - 
That is, rural policy-  because they say we haven't got a national rural policy. I suppose I could state some kind of generalised policy, but it wouldn't mean much unless we looked at it in the context of particular rural industries. 
We heard the honourable member for New England condemning us for the Green Paper. Time has caught up with the honourable member for New England because during the elections he called it an act of vandalism which was being suppressed until after the election. That is when he condemned it; now he shouts its glory. What contradictions we see in these people who do not really bother to sit down and consider in a rational way the problems of the people they are supposed to represent in the rural countryside. 
I refer to one comment that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  made concerning the influence of Treasury over the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  on this occasion. These words must come passing strange to anybody who was associated with the previous reserve price debate in 1965. It was common knowledge, never denied, that the then Treasurer, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  was instrumental in refusing Government support for the reserve price at that time. Either directly or indirectly, the Treasurer on that occasion was almost completely responsible for the fact that the reserve price was not passed in 1965. The influence of the Treasurer then far exceeded any sort of influence that the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is sitting at the table, exercised over the Minister for Agriculture on this occasion. 
The justification for this particular scheme has been deeply rooted in debate that raged fiercely in 1965 and went back beyond that time. A great deal of work was carried out on this subject in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and in various universities in Australia. The reserve price plan, as we see it now, is a sophisticated version of the true principles that were enunciated during the referendum in 1965. My views on this have been firmly recorded and were published in 1972 in the journal 'Sheep Breeding and Wool Technology'. To give some background to this I refer to that article. Regarding justification for this particular mechanism I draw the attention of the House to the factors that influenced price formation in the wool market. There is in this world an underlying demand for textile fibres which is extraordinarily large, so large in fact that within 3 years the aggregate demand, the new demand, for textile fibres as a whole could cope with the total wool production. Given this rapid increase in demand for textile fibres there is a consequent reduction of influence in the total by wool itself. It is likely to become, and is becoming, a specialist textile fibre that will be used in uniquely specialised end uses in the future. An examination of price movements over the past years suggests that the changes in demand which underly the changes in price are unpredictable. Many people lose sight of this fact. These changes are due to changes in fashion and income movements. During periods of relatively low domestic income, people in the domestic situation can easily defer the purchase of clothes, particularly wool products, and return to the purchase of those clothes when incomes are high. As it is very difficult to predict movements in domestic incomes in the various wool consuming countries the safest assumption, when looking at the wool market, is that the price formation or the actual price at any given moment is a random event. God 's hand is not often on the shoulders of these people who predict the future of the wool industry. None of them has yet illustrated that he does have this divine inspiration. I think it is only sensible to assume that the price movement in the wool market will be completely random in future. If we accept that proposition we can go ahead and formulate exactly the sort of proposal the House now has before it. 
This plan has evolved over time. The Crawford Committee instituted a flexible reserve price which is, as it were, the second leg of this particular proposal. Because wool prices are so variable and so unpredictable it is vital that we bring more to bear on the market than simply the flexible reserve price, the mechanism of which I will describe in a moment. We need this underlying support in the market which we now have in this fixed price for wool. Price stabilisation, such as this represents, can be regarded as an insurance against low market prices during temporary periods of recession in the wool market. Subsidiesthis is mainly the area in which such a scheme has been criticised- become necessary only to sustain a price stabilisation scheme where the marketing organisation deliberately incorporates a welfare component in its floor price. When price equalisation is viewed as an insurance against fluctuating incomes for wool growers and not as a means of subsidising sectional groups, a scheme such as the one the House has before it can be developed on a purely commercial basis. 
Do not call for a quorum, my friend. No individual grower or private enterprise group in Australia can provide the capital backing to support an insurance scheme large enough to cover the Australian wool market against low prices, but a national trading group supported by the Government can supply this capital. This is another factor that needs to be considered. The wool market in Australia is big business- $ 1,000m a year; sometimes more, sometimes less. If in private enterprise we were dealing with such big business we could be sure that the reserves behind that private enterprise group would be considerably more than the reserves with which we are now endowing the Wool Corporation. This problem of providing support for such a huge industry undertaking in Australia can be solved only by government support and interventions such as we have in this Bill. 
The scheme we are now considering has this floor price justified on commercial grounds. The floor price should be based on the objective of averaging rises and falls in the market over a period of, say, five to ten years. It should provide a certain minimum income for growers over this period. The flexible reserve price is operated above the floor in order to maximise growers' returns and make sure that the country gets the maximum return for wool. This reserve should follow just below the market price when prices are rising, come out above the market when prices peak and follow the market down above the market price in order gradually to let the market back to the floor, if necessary. Such a system provides a sensitive indicator of changes in the market price. When the reserve comes out above the peak at the turn in prices the trading group can purchase wool which can never be sold at a profit because it was bought at the peak of the market. This can be regarded as part of the premium paid for insurance. On the other hand, when the Corporation buys wool on the downswing or in the trough it can subsequently sell the wool at a marked profit. Many people who criticise the present scheme do not have a sense of history so far as the wool industry is concerned. This market has fluctuated violently over the last twenty to thirty years. .Anybody who has had experience with it can. never get unduly perturbed when the market rises and falls. There is an inevitability that the market will continue to do this in the future as it has done in the past. 
I turn now to the actual mechanism that has been established. The selection of 250c a kilo clean for the floor price is a very good choice. This particular floor was broken in 1963 briefly, and also, for a long period, from 1949 to 1 956. If we take the 20 years from 1954 to the present it will be seen that this is exactly where the market comes out- at 123c a lb greasy. On that point I would like to correct the arithmetic of the honourable member for New England. Once again it seems to be failing. The 250c per kilo clean for 21 micron wool, which for those who like the old jargon is the 64s, represents 123c per kilo greasy. The honourable member says that this is not very much more than the 36c per lb greasy at which the market was previously supported. The 123c greasy has to be compared with 79.2c, which is 44c more than the 36c which the honourable member said was not very much more. It is 8c more than the actual price at which the market was supported as recently as 2 years ago. I repeat those figures. The 123c greasy is the floor that this scheme puts into the market, and 79.2c greasy is the figure that would have applied if we had retained the 36c per lb greasy. 
It is interesting to see what would happen. There is only one occasion when the 36c per lb was the lowest price paid in the market, and that was in the year that the 36c a lb price support scheme was brought in. It lasted for 2 years. In relation to price movements over the years, 123c represents a very intelligent estimate of where the floor ought to be. Of course, we heard a great deal of comment about 300c being the floor. It is interesting to observe that 300c for 21 micron wool turns out to be about IS 8c greasy. It was only exceeded on 2 occasions- for a 2-year period from 1949 to 1951 and in 1972. It is interesting also to observe that the floor we have now established in the market has been penetrated only once since 1956. So we have given to the market much more security than it ever had before. We have given it the sort of security that previous governments, have never been able to provide. We have grasped the nettle. 
In this Bill, which provides $150m to finance the operations of the Australian Wool Corporation, we have introduced a revolutionary principle into wool marketing.  Mr von  Bibra has said that the agreement between the industry and the Government represents^ milestone in the history of the wool industry. He said: 
After very many years of dissension and debate within the industry and with governments, we now have a commerically viable marketing proposal which can overcome the crippling uncertainty that has been evident in recent times in the wool market. 
That, in itself, will be of enormous relief to both wool producers and to wool users around the world. 

 Mr von Bibra 's views obviously were not shared by  Mr Roberts,  the  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council. He is reported in the 'Queensland Country Life' as saying that he was disappointed that the Government had not supported the Council's proposal of 300c as a firm floor price for wool.  His  disappointment was so great that he. could barely say that he was pleased that the principle of a floor price had been established. This was reflected in the editorial of the 'Queensland Country Life' and gives some indication of the reason why the revolutionary policies of this Government are being regarded by the electorate in the country areas with disfavour. The 'Queensland Country Life' had this to say:  
The Whitlam Government's lack of concern for the welfare of rural industry was demonstrated by its reluctance to back the Wool Corporation's floor price plan. 
Fortunately, commonsense prevailed, but the guarantee falls far short of what the industry needs. 
All the editorial could do was criticise when we have introduced into the wool industry one of the greatest steps forward that has ever been made for the industry in insurance terms by setting a floor price which is completely justifiable in commercial terms and which offers the growers of this country a reasonable level of income when the going is tough. That point needs to be emphasised. This is an insurance proposal. We are not proposing a revolutionary change in wool marketing because this scheme has very little to do with wool marketing. It has everything to do with insurance. It is very important to make that distinction. Wool marketing and its technical aspects are a completely different subject. 
Let us consider another aspect which has attracted criticism. I notice that in the 'Australian Financial Review' criticism has been levelled at the scheme. There is tendency to indicate that this scheme involves $ 1 50m of taxpayers ' money which taxpayers will never see again. That of course is absurdly wrong. If instead of paying $53m to growers during the period of the wool price deficiency payment scheme we had in fact spent that money on wool- the growers would have had the same incomes- we would now have something like $ 100m in reserves for the Corporation. Let us never do that again. The  $53m  was wasted with no particular advantage to the wool industry except that it provided temporary respite for the growers at the time. The money would have been far better spent on wool which subsequently could have been resold during what has proved to be the second highest boom in wool marketing since 1950-51. 
Let us consider events in sequence. A grant of $ 1 50m is to flow to the Wool Corporation out of government funds to purchase wool. The criticism that the 'Australian Financial Review' has levelled at this grant is that the money coming from private banks would have mopped up liquidity in the economy. But because the money is coming out of Government funds, it will not mop up any liquidity in the economy. Whether we need to mop up liquidity at the moment is a moot point, but let us argue for a moment that we do. The argument is completely false because the Wool Corporation is purchasing wool which otherwise would have been sold to foreign buyers whose money would have flowed into our foreign reserves and increased liquidity internally. The fact is that there is an off-setting flow. There is a marginal impact on liquidity and it is very difficult to predict whether it is positive or negative because it is a difference between the money supplied on a credit basis from the funds backing the Wool Corporation and the overseas reserves that would have accrued if the wool had been sold to overseas buyers at low prices. We have deferred the aggregation of overseas reserves until a later date to sell the wool at a higher price and therefore increase the aggregate that we get in terms of overseas reserves. The liquidity argument stands or falls once we look at the sequence of events. (Quorum formed). 
Before the quorum was called, I was referring to the effect of the reserve price on the internal liquidity of the economy. As I have demonstrated, there will be a marginal effect in the short term. In the long term the effect of the reserve price will be to increase our reserves when the wool is sold off at a profit. As the honourable member for New England has pointed out, the wool industry itself has opted to contribute $50m to cover the risk element involved in the insurance scheme. In my view, the money will not be needed. It is a question of how good the judgment of the Corporation is on this particular issue. It is reasonable to ask the industry to contribute $50m to this, the best insurance proposal it has ever had. Many other agricultural industries would envy the security that this scheme will be bringing into wool marketing. 
We have the interesting phenomenon too of the private banks not being able to supply funds at this time. Admittedly this is for reasons that are rather extraordinary, but it is interesting to speculate on what would have happened if the private banks had been financing the Wool Corporation and had to call up funds at a time such as this. The dependence of the Corporation on private banks could prove to be shaky in the future. It is fortuitous that such a weakness has displayed itself at the beginning of the scheme. It is worth remembering that the precedents have been established for financing what are fundamentally commercial business operations through government funds. I refer, of course, to Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd and, to some degree, Ansett Airlines of Australia. We have these precedents in all economic activities of the Government 
In this complex of Bills we find witness to the fact that this Government is concerned about the fundamental issues which worry the agricultural sector. In the case of the wool industry, the Government has brought to bear all the research and knowledge available to provide the wool industry with an insurance scheme which can be supported technically and in every other possible way. It is a step that the previous Government was not brave enough to take. As the honourable member for New England has reminded me, the previous Treasurer prevented his Government from taking such a step. This Government has been brave enough to take that step. 
-I address myself tonight to the Budget. It is a Budget which reflects in every sense of the word the concern this Government has for the people it serves. The Budget is all the more significant because the way in which it is attacked is by innuendo and by myth. The arguments are not hard. The facts are not there. One can see these fear creating myths circulating around the countryside and being encouraged by the honourable members on the Opposition benches. 
We can divide these into a number of areas. The favourite area, of course, and the one that has been worked on ad nauseam in this place is the rural area. In spite of what the previous speaker said, the fact remains that this Budget makes grants of a record nature to agricultural industries. This Budget provides $487.6m for agricultural industries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! There is too much conversation in the aisles. Would honourable members please be seated? 
-' No one in the Country Party would want to hear this nonsense', we hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory bleat to the House simply because it is a hard fact that members of the Opposition create the myths. They established the basis of fear which is eroding the confidence of the people. There is no question where that basis comes from. The hard facts are that in this area - 

 - Mr Speaker, could I - 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the allegation made during the weekend that Australia was refusing to grant political asylum to Eastern European diplomats as a part of a cynical political exercise to curry favour with Eastern European nations with the object of securing their vote for Australia's nomination for the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly next year? If so, can the Prime Minister elaborate on this accusation? 
-The hypocrisy of the honourable member for New 
England  (Mr Sinclair)  whom we have just heard is revealed - 
-I withdraw it,  Mr Chairman.  The shallowness of the position that was just put to this Committee is demonstrated by the booklet produced by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics titled 'The Rural Reconstruction Scheme, a Review of Progress'. Consider the situation in 1970-71 when the honourable member for New England was the Minister for Primary Industry and 7,570 farmers were in such bad economic plight that they had to apply for assistance to the Rural Reconstruction Board. In 1973-74 - (Opposition members interjecting)- 
-They cannot take it. By 1973-74 the figure had dropped to 523 applications. The previous situation was engendered and presided over by the man who has just sat down- 7,570 farmers so badly off, in such dire economic need, that they had to apply for rural reconstruction assistance in 1971-72. The situation that exists at the moment is nowhere near as bad as it was in the depths of the crisis while the Opposition was in government. We now have a position in which the fallacies and myths spread by members of the Opposition have caught fire around the electorate. What are the facts? They are worth repeating again. I address myself to the Budget for 1974-75, and the Opposition does not like hearing it. 
This Budget contains a record level of assistance for agriculture. The total outlays on agriculture in this Budget are $487.6m, an increase of $158.1m over the previous Government's last Budget. Of this sum, $ 178.4m is represented by offsets, and this reduces the net agricultural assistance to $309m, or $25m more than the Liberal-Country Party Government gave to agriculture in its last Budget. These are the facts. This figure has been criticised on the ground that it includes loan money. No doubt it does, and so too do those figures with which the comparison is made. I shall give some examples. Those grants for softwood forests, for farm reconstruction and loans to fruit canners are all on both sides of the ledger. The situation with which we are confronted is that we have a new government that has a proper, rational, national approach to agriculture. Nowhere is this better illustrated in this Budget than in the approach to soil conservation. We have dismissed the idea, if soil conservation - 
-Yes, what about the deduction? I have the lead now. Let us have the tune. What about the taxation deductions for soil conservation? If soil conservation is a national problem it should be treated on a national basis in exactly the same way that the problem of rabbit eradication was treated in New Zealand. There is no way in which the problem of soil conservation can be solved by ad hoc decisions of individual farmers on their own land. Obviously we need to have a national approach to soil conservation. For the first time a national government has provided that national approach in this Budget. There is no ad hoc approach, leaving it to the individual farmer to make a decision which could be compromised by his neighbor's actions. In this Budget we have the first national approach to soil conservation. If soil conservation is a problem, then this clearly is the only way to handle it. 
Many of these changes and many of these important distinctions that are being made in agricultural policy in this Budget have been clouded by the emotionalism generated by the Country Party in country areas. Nowhere was this irrational emotionalism better demonstrated than in 'Monday Conference' last week. The audience at that conference- and this is the reason why no Labor member will go to those organised shams around the countryside- was either incapable or refused to enter a sensible dialogue with the Minister. 
-In 'Monday Conference' the audience was either incapable or refused to enter a sensible dialogue with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  This was demonstrated by the rude and abrupt interruptions during the Minister's answers. The whole nation watched it and the image that came across to the viewing Australians was that of a crowd of arrogant larrikins seeking to impress their mates with evergrowing rudeness. The old inane platitudes that are mouthed here by members of the Country Party were received by the audience with the greatest applause. This shallow political exercise was being encouraged by the Opposition. 
-Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy provide an outline of measures being taken to develop phosphate rock deposits in 
Queensland? What effect will this supply have on the domestic prices of superphosphate? 
This is my writing. I can read it quite well, thank you. 
I commend honourable members for the sensible way in which they have approached this debate. I would take issue only with marginal points made by Opposition speakers. We accept without question that the beef industry is entering and has in fact entered a very serious crisis. But to accuse this Government of not recognising this is without foundation. I wish to quote from a Press statement issued by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on 13 June 1974-5 months ago- which stated: 
The Australian Government viewed with deep concern the growth in recent months of trade barriers affecting Australia 's beef  export  trade. 

 Dr Cairns said this after senior officials of the Departments of Overseas Trade, Primary Industry and Northern Development had met with representatives of the Australian meat industry in Canberra____ 
The Press statement pointed out that in recent months the Government had taken steps to approach the EEC and Japan, to criticise them for severely restricting their beef imports in the face of difficulties confronting their domestic beef industries. The Press statement continued: 

 Dr Cairns went on to say that in recent months the Japanese Government had reduced previously announced levels of beef imports and had, very recently in effect, suspended imports of beef and veal for an unstated period. 
This Press statement was made 5 months ago. It continued: 

 Dr Cairns said that, arising from a series of representations, official consultations were to be held shortly with the EEC to explore possible ways and means of alleviating the effect of restrictions on Australia's trade. 
These negotiations have been carried out ever since at a formal and informal level. 
This brings me to the most recent statement on the subject which was made by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  A Press statement issued by the Minister stated: 
The Minister said that it had always been accepted that solutions to the immediate problems of the meat industry had to be sought in bilateral discussions with those principally concerned, the EEC, Japan and Canada. In the case of the EEC, consultations in the GATT, on Australia's initiative, are scheduled to take place next week. 
Bilateral discussions had been taking place with Japan over some time and would be continued in the near future. In the light of the efforts made by Australia to meet specific Japanese requirements for meat, particularly in 1973, in reponse to continuing requests, the delay of the Japanese Government in removing its embargo on the import of beef, is of particular concern. In view of the obligation felt by Australia last year to maintain supplies to Japan we would expect that some positive steps would be warranted in return given that Australia, rather than Japan, is presently in difficulties, said  Mr Bowen. 
In the meantime, Australia will be taking action to maintain the momentum which the Washington meeting has created for closer and more effective consultation and cooperation on meat at the multilateral level. 
The Washington meeting to which the Minister referred was convened at the initiative of the Australian Government and included representatives of the United States of America, Canada, the EEC, Argentina, Uruguay, Mexico, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. The meeting was made up of both consuming and supplying countries. This was an initiative that has never been taken before in this area. 
Having taken all action available so far as the formal mechanism of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and other bilateral agreements were concerned we were then able to convene this informal meeting at which the various nations which I have listed and which are involved in the meat industry could put their views and look for a solution. The EEC will be coming before GATT to explain its actions in placing restrictions on the import of Australian meat. Japan has already been to GATT to put its case for restricting trade in meat. 
There is, of course, an implicit contradiction in the position taken by the Opposition. On the one hand it calls for a restraint on restrictions so far as Japan and other importing countries are concerned and on the other hand- this point of view was put even today at question time- it is looking for more and more restrictions on our trade with those countries. This is clearly an issue which must be resolved in low key consultations in which the various trading countries arrive at a solution which balances the pluses and minuses for all concerned. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics statements quoted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  were appropriate at the time they were made. They highlight only one thing about agricultural markets and that is that long term predictions are very rarely a satisfactory indicator for short term variations in market prices. The only satisfactory conclusion one can draw from experience in any agricultural market is that short term variations are unpredictable whereas, of course, it is possible for us to say with confidence that the long term future for meat, particularly beef, is sound. We can never at any stage predict what the price will be 6 months from now. The variability of these markets has been demonstrated time and time again. This Government has recognised this fact in relation to wool. It has been possible with that commodity to provide a Government support which will cushion the shock suffered by wool producers because of prices falling unpredictably. 
We have different problems with meat, which is a commodity that cannot be stored. The only satisfactory solution to the problem is a long term meat agreement such as was negotiated with the United Kingdom immediately after the war. Clearly a long term meat agreement must be negotiated when the trading parties have some area for bargaining and some area for agreement. Some 12 months ago we held the whiphand in regard to long term agreements. In retrospect, it would have been very satisfactory for the representatives of the meat industry to have sat down with officials of the member countries of the European Economic Community, Japan and other countries and negotiated there and then long term agreements with discounts on existing prices at that stage. But the industry was not prepared at that stage to accept such a proposition. 
The reasons for the present short term downturn in prices are basically over-supply in our consumer countries and the fact that the market mechanism has been frustrated by political decisions made by Japan and the EEC and by the American Government. Up to date, America has played the game fairly straight, but its recent political decision was the result of an over-supply situation. It is interesting to note that in Ireland, for instance, prices have also fallen below the bottom of the market. Irish producers are in even more difficult straits than are producers in Australia. The beef problem is a world-wide problem. Stores in the basic consuming countries need to be dissipated. We also face the prospect of a fairly heavy supply behind those stores. 
Some reference has been made to the Parliamentary Prices Committee. If we shear away the political emotionalism from that Prices Committee, a number of things emerge. The Committee's inquiry into meat prices provided the first forum for producers and all other meat interests to talk to the Government and to backbenchers. A consultative process was opened up and advice given to the Government was available to be read by all interested parties-. It was the first time such a forum had been provided. The advice given by producers on that occasion was twofold. The Government was asked to keep out of the meat industry and the Government did. The Government was told that the only solution to the problem was to increase meat production. It would have been the wrong solution in the light of subsequent events. It is understandable that the industry should approach the Government on those issues. 
Two very important technical issues, which may seem small but which ought to be seized on and carried through, emerged during the inquiry. One was that we ought to be looking very carefully at the storage properties of lamb to extend the selling season for lamb. A lot more research needs to be done on that, as the evidence in the meat prices inquiry shows. The second thing was that we need to be developing consumer sympathy towards freezer meat and the more extensive use of deep freezes in Australia to build up a storage capacity in the deep freezes in the kitchens of Australia. That means an examination of retail outlets, and that is the explanation for the second reference to the Prices Committee. It is a reference relating to retail outlets, and retail outlets alone. If members of the Opposition were more conscious of the opportunities that the Prices Committee offers the Government, they would know the nature of the reference and be more hesitant in extracting political capital out of what is a conscientious effort to give an open forum to industry groups. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
I wish to draw to the attention of the House some of the contradictions inherent in the Opposition's position, as reflected in its motion. Implicit in the motion is the idea that there will be a consistent rural policy- something that holds together. I recall to the House the plea by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who led for the Opposition, for lower world tariff barriers. I wonder how the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  feels about that proposal? Great conflict on the question of tariff barriers is present in the Opposition- whether those barriers should be lowered. It should be quite clear that, in order to lower tariff barriers, we should behave in a like manner. The difficulty that this creates, I am told from the Country Party benches, is the differences between a tariff and an embargo. Well, that may be so but the exporting country sees the matter differently. Obvious problems exist with respect to the export of beef. Here we see breaches of international agreements. If we are to achieve some satisfaction in respect of these breaches, our own behaviour in respect of tariffs must be immaculate. 
Another area in which we find contradictions is the Coombs report. I quote from the transcript of the Australian Broadcasting Commission television program ' Monday Conference ' which was attended by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  He said: ... I support the bringing down of the Coombs Report- it was a very useful and productive report because it provided far more information about many subsidies than has been available during years gone by. It was a major initiative and I welcome it. 
That was said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. In regard to this consistent policy, which seems to underlie the plea contained in the present motion, let me again refer to this interview with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He was asked: 
What steps would you take to alleviate the present crisis in the beef industry? 
He answered: 
That's a tough question. There aren't many answers at the present time either in the mind of the Government nor in my mind. 
He had no specific answer. He elaborated, by saying: 111 just come back, look, the position about beef is extraordinarily difficult. It derives, as the questioner would well know, from the position in relation to export markets and in particular world commodity prices. There has, of course, been a downturn; of course in the short and long run it's a question of finding new markets, it's a question also, quite apart from the particular problem of beef, of seeking to provide some form of equity to those persons who need it. 
That is exactly the position that the Government has adopted on this question. Again, referring to the beef problem, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said: . . . It is a very tough question . . . Insofar as world commodity markets are concerned, that's really a question of getting out and seeking to beat up new orders and that's difficult having regard to the world scene at the present time . . . 
We see in the Opposition's own comments a conflicting set of recommendations for the agricultural sector. Not only that, but because of a lack of policy, contradictions are creeping into Opposition statements. 
In the 'Western Australian Farmers Weekly' on 17 October 1974 the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was challenged to give the source of a claim that he made. The letter reads in part: 

 Mr Sinclair has claimed ('Farmers Weekly', October 3) that government spokesmen have stated that because of devaluation farm incomes this year could be lifted by $500m. 
The writer of this letter,  Mr F.  P. Hutchinson of Beacon, challenges the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party to name the Government spokesman who made that statement. That challenge has not been accepted for a perfectly good reason.  His  authority is mythical. Again to underline the contradictions which come from an Opposition without a policy, I refer to a media release dated 8 May 1974 by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party. It is printed in the journal 'The Federal Reporter'- not a bad journal- and it reads: 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Ian  Sinclair speaking in Mackay today said that the Labor Government was deliberately holding back on the publication of a top secret report which would detail further courses of discrimination and vandalism the Labor Government would take against rural Australia. 
The report was the Green Paper. In this House only a few weeks ago the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party was claiming that the Government was not moving fast enough in implementing the recommendations in the Green Paper. He gave it his full support on that occasion. 
The contradictory position between the Country Party and the Liberal Party which is emerging is simply the direct result of the fact that they would not have a policy, if they were going to this World Food Conference, which would seem credible in the eyes of overseas nations. The fact is that only yesterday the Government announced that it would raise the first advance on wheat and suspend quotas in order to stimulate the production of wheat. Clearly that sort of action at the moment is not called for in regard to the beef industry. In the longer term the beef industry is well-founded. For the beef industry we need to have these short term buffer mechanisms which will overcome problems of short term falls in international prices. This is not an international problem; it is a domestic problem. In the longer term, for beef and wool and most animal products, we find that the production decision does not pay off for 2 years, 3 years or 4 years. 
It is important to maintain an overall policy for the long term and, at the same time, develop short term policies to cushion the producers from fluctuating world market prices. This, in fact, is what the Government is doing. Taxation concessions do not help in this respect. In terms of averaging incomes, the taxation concessions come when incomes are high and they have least effect when incomes are low. Clearly they are not the answer to this particular problem. For the first time in history we have provided a floor price for wool. We are emphasising the importance of negotiating long term contracts for beef and other agricultural products to give some protection to the Australian producers of agricultural products. These areas have attracted the attention of the Government. We have also taken the lead in developing more markets overseas. In the Bureau of Agricultural Economics a specialised agricultural marketing section will be created. It is ironic that restraints on this particular activity, so important now in this particular crisis, have the complete consensus of the Opposition. In fact, implicitly its POliCY is to curtail the expansion of the Public Service. 
Having worked in the BAE there is no doubt in my mind that the future development of this market section in the BAE will be inhibited by the ceiling placed on Public Service recruitment. This is the stupidity of these generalised comments and the image that is created in the minds of the electorate by the Opposition- that all public servants are parasites. The Opposition places considerable emphasis on the contention that the only productive sector is the private sector. What possible difference can there be between the production of a barmaid employed by the public sector and a barmaid employed by the private sector? They do the same job. In this case we see the chickens coming home to roost. By having this generalised condemnation of the Public Service, one of the instruments that we need to give us a more sensitive appreciation of overseas marketing- the market section in the BAE- will have its progress slowed. This is where the generalised attack and general approach of the Opposition in creating an image in the mind of the electorate do not pay off. We all depend on the public sector as well as the private sector and the balance between the two should always be maintained. 
Australia will be able to go to the world food conference with a clean sheet behind it- clean so far as our trading relationships are concerned. Our future prospects as world food producers have never been better and we are in a better position to go to that conference with this recent announcement by the Government to encourage the production of wheat, a commodity currently in short supply. The overall future for agriculture in Australia is extremely bright. This morning we heard from the Opposition comments about how many people throughout the world who are starving can be fed. One proposition needs to be clear when this argument is developed. No sector of the community can afford to pay fully for whatever food aid we might provide to overseas countries needing food. It is a community responsibility. There is a tendency to assume that we can give food away, but who gives it away? Does the farmer give it away? Is he being asked to give food away? Surely that is not the proposition. Surely this is a responsibility that can be accepted only by the electorate as a whole and be paid for by the electorate as a whole. What will this do to our income tax structure? Will this be yet another charge on the taxpayer? Of course it will be. The reality of these propositions should be faced. 
If we are to provide food- I certainly would be a strong supporter of this sort of action- we must accept the fact that the taxpayer will pay and that this will be a charge on the taxpayer. We cannot have the falsity of the position the Opposition sketches out when it makes these sort of claims and then say it will lower taxes because the charge the Government makes on the community is too high. If that is a practical solution to our problems, the consequences must be accepted. Our position at the world food conference and in the eyes of those countries which are starving would seem credible if we accepted the consequences that will flow from this recommendation. 
We have seen another attack today in regard to the domestic economy so far as the rural sector is concerned, but these bland attacks do not bear examination. I take as an example the country roads grant. Under this Government the allocation is being increased by 39 per cent to $ 1,120m for Australian roads in the next 3 years. Of this money 58 per cent will be spent on rural roads whereas only 49 per cent of the previous Government's allocation was spent on such roads. We see the payoff on the Hume Highway. 
I wonder how the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  feels about the idea that money that would have been spent on that road will be deviated to some other area. Our main road transport links are falling apart because of the lack of a systematic approach to the transport system in Australia. In the Goulburn by-election held recently  Sir Charles  Cutler claimed that the State Government had spent $50m on the Hume Highway in 2 years. Now he tells us it did not do so. When we say to the local government authorities that this money that we are devoting to national roads replaces money the State Government spent on national roads he says that it is not- that it is money that the Federal Government gave the State in the first place. He never said that during the Goulburn by-election. Then he said it was money from the State. It is a pity for  Sir Charles  Cutler and many others in the Opposition parties that these things come in such close conjunction. The people in my electorate remember what was said during that by-election. They remember that  Sir Charles  Cutler claimed that the State had spent $50m on the Hume Highway in 2 years and that he projected large expenditures in the future. Now that he tells the local councils that they cannot spend money because it all came from the Federal Government in the first place his duplicity is revealed. 
On the question of government expenditure we remember the proposal put by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition during the 'Monday Conference' to which I have already referred. If the Opposition had been thinking of an election before that 'Monday Conference' it must have put such ideas behind it now. The proposal was for an 8 per cent reduction right across the board. How would the Australian Government find money for rural shires for State roads then? 
That would be an interesting proposition. We see contradictions emerging from the Opposition's case. This motion highlights these contradictions. We are being asked to go to a world organisation where we will be judged by world terms. The biases and prejudices of the local scene will be dismissed and contradictions emerge. It will be only the consistent argument that wins the day in such a world forum. 
-The fracas we have just seen is typical of the relationship between the Opposition and the Government. A Government supporter demonstrated the truth of the statement he made because it was misquoted by the Opposition and we heard the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  - 
-We heard the honourable member for Darling Downs make the most absurd statement we have ever heard in this Parliament, that the Australian Country Party does not talk very much. I thought members of the Australian Country Party said things Uke that only in regard to rural matters, but now we find that they are saying such things in regard to the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development. They do not talk very much? That is one thing not one elector in this country would dispute. The Australian Country Party members have more to say both officially and non-officially in this Parliament than any other section of the Parliament 
-And it is aU good stuff, we hear from the wings. The sort of material that they speak about frequently was demonstrated in the speech just given by the honourable member for Darling Downs. We just heard him give us the sort of delusion that members of the Country Party impose on the electorate. He said that the Grants Commission money had not reached the councils. There is a very good reason for thatthe miscalculation that epitomises every decision that is ever made by the Opposition. That miscalculation was forcing the Parliament to the pollsthe double dissolution. 
There is no way on earth that we could have got that Grants Commission money to the councils. The honourable member for Darling Downs has not only displayed his ignorance in regard to the way the parliamentary process works; he cannot even read. The Bill to authorise the payment of the money is order of the day No. 37 on the notice paper that was before him when he seated himself in the chamber this morning. The BUI has not even gone through the Parliament How could we pay this money to local government? We ought to see a much more acute awareness, at least of parliamentary procedure, from the members of the Country Party. We have come to accept that they lack a policy and have to impose misconceptions on the electorate, but surely we should expect that they can see that the parliamentary procedure has to be followed, that we have to pass the Bill before we can - 
I am talking about the Grants Commission which is clearly an issue which comes within the estimates of the Department of Urban and Regional Development which we are now discussing. Let me get down to much more important issues, issues which affect one of the best parts of Australia- the electorate of EdenMonaro. I direct the attention of the Committee to 3 important expenditures in the estimates we are now discussing. The first- this may seem strange for those people who do not know the geography of this area- is the expenditure of $140m on the growth centre of Canberra; the second is the expenditure of $750,000 on the south-east region of New South Wales, which is largely comprised of my electorate of EdenMonaro; and the third is the $34m to be expended on sewerage works in New South Wales. What relevance do these 3 provisions have in relation to the present debate? They revolve around one simple fact: The population of Canberra by 1985 is estimated by the National Capital Development Commission to be 471,000 people. The population is currently about 185,000 people. The population will grow from 185,000 to 471,000-nearly half a millionpeople by 1985. The impact that this growth will have on the electorates of Eden-Monaro and Hume is immense. It is absolutely essential that we dovetail this growth in the ACT with the surrounding areas. 
Let us think very carefully about the problems that this issue presents. The first problem- it is a unique and special problem for this Government because we do not have the same political philosophy of  Mr Askin  and, God knows, how could we- is the difficulty of dovetailing the decisions that are made by the Australian Government with those of the New South Wales Government. The present Minister for Urban and Regional Development is a lovable man who endears himself and achieves co-operation. He has been remarkably successful in evoking co-operation from the States. I have no hesitation in saying that under this Minister we have been able to achieve much more success in regard to this extremely difficult task of obtaining cooperation from New South Wales in the border regions than we would have perhaps under some other Ministers in the present Government. Let us not get personal. The point to be made here is that the achieving of co-operation between the Australian Government, the State Government and local government, is absolutely essential for the development of the border region, for one simple reason, that is, that the population of Canberra will be nearly half a million by 1985. 
Under the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development we have gone a long way towards achieving that co-operation. Queanbeyan, which is one of the fastest growing cities in New South Wales will benefit, I hope, from the allocation for sewerage of $34m in these estimates. This will be applied to cities with a population of more than 20,000 people. Queanbeyan has a population of more than 20,000 people. I hope that by the time of the next election its population will be 50,000. The people of Queanbeyan vote very well. I feel that in this particular case Queanbeyan deserves special consideration. Because only a railway line divides Queanbeyan from the Australian Capital Territory, we must have co-operation between the New South Wales Government and the Australian Government and the local government authorities in the development of that city. It suffers major disadvantages because of the presence of Canberra. Low income families are culled out to live in Queanbeyan and we have more than our average share of social problems in that city. We have more than our average share of local government problems in that city because the presence of Canberra, the sheer weight of the city, places a great imposition on Queanbeyan. 
Far more importantly from the point of view of the total electorate is the area improvement program for the south-east region of New South Wales for which $750,000 is provided in these estimates. The effect of Canberra extends far beyond Queanbeyan. There are very few Canberra residents who have never travelled between here and the coast, who have never travelled what is almost a greater death highway than the Hume Highway is correctly represented to be in the Press. The road between Canberra and Bateman's Bay deserves special consideration. Previous Federal Governments have acknowledged this. I am confident that this Government also will acknowledge that this road should receive special consideration. I know that I have understanding and sympathetic Ministers. In particular I know that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development who is in charge of the estimates now under discussion appreciates the problems with which I am confronted in regard to this road. 
There are other social problems in my electorate which extend to the coast. One problem concerns recreational areas in the country and on the beaches which are used by the people who live in Canberra, which is the most rapidly growing city in Australia. We must integrate the development between Canberra and the surrounding areas if we are to achieve satisfaction for all. This need was acknowledged when the present Government took office and the Prime Minister allowed me to run a symposium- a very successful symposiumon the problems. I believe and I am absolutely confident, from continuing relationships from the Prime Minister down in the Cabinet, that we will have a continuation of that cooperation. 

 Mr McVEIGH (Darling Downs )-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address my question to the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware of the heavy demands made by Canberra traffic and in particular gravel and sand trucks on the road connecting Canberra to Bateman's Bay? Is he aware also of the very serious condition that this road, having been constructed in about 1959 as a 35-mile an hour road, has now reached? The road has now been reduced to a goat track. Can the Minister tell me what action this Government can take to assist in restoring that road to a reasonable condition and perhaps, in the future, realigning the road? 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware that a Bailey bridge has been used for some time at a town called Candelo and has recently been replaced by a permanent bridge? Is the Minister also aware of the fact that another bridge near Moruya was recently swept away by floods? Can the Minister outline the procedures that should be adopted to use the Bailey bridge leaving Candelo for the Moruya situation? 

 -Mr Chairman, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Chairman,  on 2 counts by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  First, he claimed that I have been offering the possibilities of selection to fill the fourth position on the Board of the Australian Wool Corporation, which is to be that of a member with special qualifications, to people unnamed. I disclaim that charge. It is true that I have strong views about the qualifications that the individual who is to be appointed should hold and that I have dicussed those qualifications with about 3 people. But I certainly would not presume to make an offer to anybody. That is the Minister's prerogative and I say that as strongly and as emphatically as I can to honourable members of this House. On the second point of misrepresentation, the honourable member for Corangamite insists that the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and I were responsible for a downturn in the market. The facts are that the market had fallen quite considerably when 3 members of the Corporation suggested that they were not above using the Corporation for political purposes. 
Progress reported. 
It is a great pleasure to hear myself described as the salt of the earth by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  I am a dairy farmer's son who learned to work on a dairy farm. I neatly fit the definition of the said salt of the earth which the Leader of the Australian Country Party gave to the House today. The Opposition has complained about the long gestation period that the Dairy Industry Bill has had to suffer. The reason for it is quite simple. Today the Leader of the Australian Country Party took a double barrelled bet. First, he complained about the delay in this matter and then justified the delay in presenting his own Bill on this subject by advancing the same reasons behind the delay in this Bill. The fact is that the delay has been due to negotiations that have gone on between the State governments. The New South Wales Government is running true to form and is still procrastinating. All States have yet to sign the agreement with this Government. So the answer is quite simple; it is a classic case of State obstruction of legislation which receives the full support of all parties in the Australian Parliament. It is these sorts of things that we find the difficulties that the Opposition is confronted with. As I have mentioned, the Leader of the Australian Country Party admitted that he had the same problem when he originally introduced similar Bills many years ago. Nobody on this side of the House has ever claimed that this Bill is an innovation. It has to be seen as a part of the evolutionary refinement that is going on in the dairy industry today. We are proud to be associated with this next stage in that evolution. 
Before I leave the comments of the Leader of the Australian Country Party, let me say that the effect of the subsidy on butter can be demonstrated very startlingly if we look at the effect it had on the number of dairy farmers in Australia. In 1970 there were 48,400 dairy farmers. In 1974 the number had fallen to 34,000. 1 wonder what happened to those people in regard to this subsidy? The situation in New South Wales if we go back to the peak year of 1933 was that there were 23,500 dairy farmers. By 1972 the number had fallen to 7,000. In 1974 the number of dairy farmers was down to 5,623. The greatest wastage in numbers of dairy farmers took place between the years 1 969 and 1 97 1 . Here we have a graphic illustration of the way the subsidy helped these people. 
It was the Government for which the Leader of the Australian Country Party spoke. I am indebted for this clarification. I turn to another point of misrepresentation presented to the House by the Leader of the Australian Country Party. He complained that this Bill contained no provision for factory equipment. Let me read to the House clause 16, subclause ( 1 ) of the Bill. I will read it to enshrine this provision in Hansard. The clause provides: 
The arrangements may provide for the making of loans by the State or an authority of the State to the owners of dairy factories, being loans for the purpose of meeting, in the case of a particular factory, the whole or a part of the costs incurred by the owner of the factory after I July 1974 in connexion with any alterations (including structural alterations)  made, vehicles purchased and plant and equipment purchased and installed after that date, -being alterations, vehicles, plant and equipment- 
1 ) that were required to provide adequate facilities- 
for the supply of wholemilk as refrigerated bulk milk to the factory; or 
for the receipt, storage or processing of the wholemilk at the factory. 
I emphasise the last words in that quotation. What more could one have in a Bill? How much more comprehensive could this assistance be in regard to factories? Yet we have heard the Leader of the Australian Country Party claim that this is a narrow definition and that a factory is not in a position to be able to adjust itself to the evolutionary process which is taking place in the dairying industry. 
In my electorate I have a specific problem. This problem, at the southern end of the electorate, brings to stark reality the difficulty to which this Bill will be addressed. There are 2 factories at Cobargo and Pambula which have entered a period of great difficulties. The reason for these difficulties is not necessarily just economic. Sometimes I regard them as almost religious. The suppliers to these factories are the ones who have held away from the Bega Co-operative in its rationalisation program. These people have had some sort of affinity with cream. These suppliers feel that milk is not the production to be engaged in. They have stuck to supplying cream way beyond the economic point. Now we have a problem- I am sure that it will be repeated all around Australia- in which we have this complex of economic and social problems related to the viability of these farm enterprises. 
Some of these farmers will be able to qualify under the dairy farm rationalisation aspects of this Bill. Some of them will never be able to do this because they have gone past the point of viability. In denning what it is that we mean by viability, we come up against another most difficult problem in agricultural economics. It is not so much the size of the enterprise that matters, in my view. It is the proposition that it can be run by a single family or not run by a single family. If we address ourselves to this problem along those lines we realise that increasingly the capitalisation required to give a family a satisfactory income will become larger and larger as the years go by. 
The latest Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey reveals that average capital for a dairy farm has been set at about $70,000. It is inevitable that this will increase very rapidly in coming years. As the industry becomes more sophisticated and gears itself to real demands which are made in terms of overseas market outlets, the capitalisation will have to increase. What we are faced with is the reality in this industry, as in many other agricultural industries, that the family farm unit is big business. We are dealing with a pretty large enterprise, not that it gives occupations to a lot of people but simply that a large enterprise is needed to provide a sensible standard of living for a single family operating that enterprise. 
This business of talking about size for its own sake misses, I believe, the real justification for a Bill of this type, which is that we are establishing a community in country areas which is properly balanced. We cannot justify Bills of this type in terms of pure economic rationale. We must resort to the sociological problems that exist in rural areas. We have to accept the fact that probably the most economic way of producing a certain commodity, whether it be milk or any other agricultural product, is on large integrated properties which by definition at least tend to be masculine in their nature. We need to preserve family units in country areas. This is the sociological justification that we present for this concern about family units rather than a purely economic one. 
So it is that I come to what I believe to be one of the important aspects of this program. This is an aspect that cannot be enshrined in this Bill. The Dairy Adjustment Bill that we are now debating brings together all the threads of the farmer problem, the factory problem and most of the other problems that have confronted the dairying industry in economic terms over the years. But, as I said, this type of BUI cannot really define what must be one of the biggest problems in administering this legislation, that is, compassion in its administration and the tendency to understand the social problems which will confront the Department in the administration of the Bill together with a sensitivity to the aspirations and value standards of the individuals concerned. 
From the point of view of my own electorate, I am absolutely certain that the 26 suppliers to the Pambula factory and a similar number of suppliers to the Cobargo factory will present many more of these social problems than they do of pure economic problems. I have absolute confidence in the Department of Agriculture in this sense. I am sure that it, first of all, will present this Bill to the dairy farming community in a compassionate and understanding way and, secondly, I am absolutely certain that I will not need to appeal to it for the administration of this Bill to be handled with all possible compassion and understanding. 
The delays in the enactment of this legislation have been disturbing to members on this side of the House as they have been to members on the other side of the House. I know for a fact though that the Department has been working very strongly on this legislation. It has been possible, at least for dairy farmers in my electorate, to acquaint themselves with what the Bill represents to them as individuals. They have even been able to obtain pro forma forms that give them some idea of the sort of information which will be needed following the enactment of this legislation. We have been able to make some progress in meeting the natural expectations of the farmers involved. I believe that, as soon as the States have come into line and finally agree to sign the agreements between this Government and their governments, from our side at least we will be ready to go into action straight away. 
There is another problem that this Bill presents and, in conclusion, I will deal with it very quickly. With respect to this Bill as happens in respect of many other Bills which introduce reforms into industry, there will be some dairy farmers who feel that the needs of equity have not been satisfied because they have made an investment in a milk vat or into the modifications for which this Bill will provide interest free loans. That is true. There is no way in which we can overcome that problem. It is a problem associated with any reform that a government may introduce. I only say here that I appeal once again to the Department of Agriculture to look at these types of problems with a compassionate view and to consider if possible within the terms of the legislation the position of people who may have made an investment in vats and other associated equipment and who find their equipment perhaps at the moment slightly out of date or in some way need to update their equipment. I commend this Bill to the House. I am pleased that the Opposition supports it so completely, and I look forward to its initiation. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
-There are 2 small points that we need to dismiss quickly, so far as the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  is concerned. (Quorum formed). I will leave the question of the honourable member for Canning to my very able colleague, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  I shall deal instead with the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  It might be of interest to the House that tonight we are having an historic debate, the Country Party stands alone. Its amendments, which have been circulated to members of this House and which virtually represent a new Bill, stand as the Country Party's opinion alone. The  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference,  Mr von  Bibra, has demonstrated that he is indeed an industry leader, because he has been in touch with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and has said this to him: 
The AWIC has become aware of certain amendments that are being put forward by the Opposition to the Wool Industry Act. We do not support these in principle or in detail with one exception, and that concerns section 28a, clause 12. 
The AWIC does not support the Country Party's amendments. 
Indeed, we have reached an historic point. The Country Party no longer speaks for the instrument that it set up to represent wool industry politics. The Country Party stands on its own in this House tonight without the support of the AWIC. We may well ask for whom the Country Party speaks. It is quite simple, it speaks for 2 very narrow vested interest groups. In the debate on the censure motion against the Government on the subject of wool, I predicted that the magazine 'The Land' would bucket this Government. I predicted that the editor of that journal had been instructed by the honourable member for New England to bucket this Government. It did so. 
On Thursday, 14 November - 
I predicted that this would happen. 

 - Mr Speaker, I make no personal reflections. I simply draw the attention of the House to the statement I made in speaking to the censure motion in regard to the wool industry, and then to draw the attention of the House to the article in 'The Land' on Thursday, 14 November. It states: 
Woolgrowers beware! You are likely to lose control of your industry and your heritage. 
Whom do we find this article supporting? None other than a unique gentleman in the political scene, the only member of Parliament who holds an office of profit under the Crown. Not only does this gentleman who is a member of the Australian Wool Corporation hold an office of profit under the Crown as a member of Parliament, but- surprise, surprise- he also happens to be a director of 'The Land' newspaper. If anyone wants to see an example of personal innuendoes and personal slander, let him read this article by a journalist who used to have a very good reputation. It is a pity he went to work for 'The Land '.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate this article in Hansard. 
MrWHAN-  The answer to this slanderous article was given by the Minister for Agriculture subsequently in the same newspaper on 21 November 1974. Now we turn to those vested interest groups that the Country Party has been reduced to supporting in this House. 
Woolgrowers beware- you are likely to lose control of your industry and your heritage 
The Federal Government is about to try to 'stack' the Australian Wool Corporation. 
In a vicious twist to the old diction ' If you can 't beat them, join them' it is preparing to get a majority of 'friends' running the corporation's multi-million dollar business. 
And if that means sacrificing a few hard-fighting woolgrowers in the process, too bad. 
What is behind this week's extra-ordinary turn of events in wool politics in Canberra? 
Why did the Australian Wool Industry Conference's trouble-shooters- the  chairman, Mr D.  D. von Bibra, and members Messrs E. P. S. Roberts (Queensland) and J. S. Silcock (Victoria)- have to seek an urgent audience with the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Ken  Wriedt? 
Because they heard the Labor Government's Caucus is about to reconstitute the corporation- in a way that definitely does not favour growers ... let alone the wool industry as a whole. 
And how did they hear? In a Telex message from  Senator Wriedt  's office. 
The Gilbertian situation that has suddenly burst forth on the wool stage would be a scream- except that it threatens the very foundation of Australia's most important export industry. 
And the scream will soon be coming from growers if they don't wake up to what the Canberra back-room boys are planning. 
Not that growers should consider this week 's politicking in Canberra as a sudden bombshell. As early as October 3, The Land ' warned that wool was being quietly promoted to the top of Canberra 's marketing board reform list. 
Jim Hodge, 'The Land's' Canberra man, said then that legislation to reconstitute the corporation was being drawn up for this session of Parliament. 
Warning 
Well, it's here now. Cabinet is looking at it, and Parliament will have to vote on it before you can say 'wool 's gone '. 
What is in the new legislation? A mixed bag- some good, some bad . . . 
Market support fund: Five per cent wool tax paid by growers in 1974-75 will be available to meet any losses arising from the reserve floor price buying. 
Supply management: Authority for the corporation to decide on changes in supply to auction. 
Trading powers: The corporation to get wider trading powers. 
But No. 4 is, following these beneficial reforms, the one stacked with dynamite. It is called simply, restructuring. 
As 'The Land' announced in last issue, the corporation will be enlarged from nine to 10 members. 
The addition will be in the non-grower membership. A member 'with special qualifications' will be appointed. 
The method of appointing grower members will change. A list of eight names will be submitted by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
These names go forward this week. As reported in last week's issue, they are- from AWMPF: Messrs C. D. Renshaw, NSW; P. D. Moore, WA; E. L. O'Brien, NSW; J. S. Silcock, Victoria. From AWGC: Messrs D. J. Asimus and F. M. Mac Diarmid NSW: J. S. Heussler, Qld; J. A. McGregor, SA. 
The Minister will have the option of calling, if he thinks it appropriate, for the Wool Industry Conference to submit extra names. 
Extra Names 
This means that if he does not like the names, he can call for any number of additional panels- and even go elsewhere to find his growers. It's been reported that  Senator Wriedt  intends to get 'the most suitable ability available, whether on the AW1C or elsewhere'. 
Is the Minister likely to use the new selection powers? Bet your bottom dollar he is! 'The Land ' has already said whose heads will roll. 
By ALAN GOODALL 
Paul Myers, our man in Melbourne, wrote on October 3 1 that three of the four existing members were 'near certainties' to go. 
One,  Mr Roy  Sewell, of Western Australia, is now out of the running. He missed nomination by the AWMPF because of an age limitation that has suddenly appeared. 
And the way this over-65 age ban was imposed is as mystifyingand frightening- as the reason behind the restructuring legislation. 
AWMPF learned only during last week 's meeting, according to what  Mr Silcock  told AWIC, that the Minister would reject any nominees aged 65 or over. 
Federation delegates were, to say the least, highly embarrased that they suddenly had to jettison one of their best men. 
They learned of the Minister's order only through a telephone call from the Minister's private secretary,  Mr Brian  Norwood, to the corporation 's executive officer,  Mr Andrew  Corummett. 
The Minister could not make the phone call because he was in Rome attending an international food conference. 
'REFORMS' 
In fact,  Senator Wriedt  had to depend on his office to send a Telex message to the corporation  chairman, Mr von  Bibra. telling what widesweeping ' reforms ' he has in mind. 
Being in Rome, he was not close enough to tell  Mr von  Bibra what else is in store for the wool industry in the way of far-reaching changes. 
When Messrs von Bibra, Roberts and Silcock await his pleasure immediately on his return, they will remind him of one particular promise. 
On August 29 in Melbourne,  Senator Wriedt  agreed with Messrs von Bibra, Roberts and Silcock that there would be no change in the total number of corporation members and woolgrower members would be appointed from a panel of eight submitted byAWIC. 

 Mr Roberts told the Press after last Friday's AWIC meeting: 'We have not agreed to additional nominations.'  Mr von  Bibra added: 'The Telex from the Minister's office is at variance with our understanding of the proposed reconstitution. 'The wool-growing industry believes it should have a reasonable say in the marketing of its own product. If you carry the Minister's proposal on and on, you are watering down grower representation. ' 
Exactly. That is evident from the plan to tip the four-four grower-non-grower balance on the corporation to four-five. 
And if that does not enable the corporation to do the Minister's bidding, he will make sure the four grower members are suitably submissive. 
How could growers on the corporation, the industry's toughest most astute leaders, ever become submissive? The very word is contradictory to AWC and AWIC membership. 
As remote as it sounds, the Minister could reject all the nominations sent to him until he found some willing to compromise. 
Impossible? Wait and see. 
Better still, see how well the AWIC can stand up in the lobbying that will proceed in coming weeks before Parliament considers the Wool Industry Act amendments. 
Experienced 
Paul Myers has already named the two nominees likely to be rejected. They are  Mr F.  M. MacDiarmid and  Mr C.  D. Renshaw, both from NSW. 
The Myers' forecast has raised a furore in political and wool industry circles. 
He based it on knowledge of Government thinking and on Messrs Renshaw and MacDiarmid 's Country Party leanings. 
If political allegiance is the main criterion for the job, it will be a sad day for the wool industry. Consider the calibre of the two'outsiders' . . . 

 Mr Claude Renshaw is considered to be the most experienced grower administrator in the wool industry. 
A former president of the UFWA in NSW, he first served the industry as a member of the JO Committee after World War II and since that time, has been a long-standing member of the former Australian Wool Board and then the AWC. 
He is not being considered for the 'axe' because of his age- he is only in his late SO's, although he has been mixed up with wool administration for nearly 30 years. 

 Mr Renshaw has often publicly stated that he does not belong to any political party.  His  sympathies generally are believed to be with the Country Party, even though his brother,  Mr Jack  Renshaw, is a Labor MLA in NSW. 

 Mr F. M. ('Toby') MacDiarmid former  president  of the NSW Graziers' Association, has a close personal and familybackground interest in wool. 
Youngish and active, he steered the association's wool committee through the difficult years after 1967. 
A member of the corporation 's board of directors since 1972, he has grazing interests in the ACT and Yass district which enable him to keep current with Canberra thinking. 
As a Country Party supporter and Member of the Legislative Council since last year, he would not be favoured by the Labor Government. 
To lose the qualifications of these two men would be retrograde enough for the woolgrowing industry. But ponder the infinite possibilities of  Senator Wriedt  rejecting the other nominees and calling for another panel and another and . . . 
If he still can't get growers to his political taste, will he then go outside the recognised grower bodies? All in the cause of getting the 'most qualified ' men. 
And after wool, who next? The dairy board was one of the first on  Senator Wriedt  's 'reform' list. 
Then meat has its troubles- perhaps producers would not mind some changes there. 
The possibilities for reform zealots have yet to be plumbed by the central planners and no primary producer should regard this week 's loin-girding only for woolgrowers. 
The wool corporation is one of Australia's best-served primary commodity boards. 
If primary producers allow it to be gerrymandered and stacked, heaven help the others. 
No longer does the Country Party speak for the Australian Wool Industry Conference, but instead it speaks for a very narrow vested interest group in the wool marketthe wool buyers. The case for the wool buyers was presented tonight by the honourable member for New England. We again turn to that august journal 'The Land', which of course is now about the only country newspaper that will put the Country Party's point of view. We find the case for this group of people which the Country Party supports in this place now given in an issue of 'The Land' on Thursday, 14 November. It may be of interest to the House to know that the wool buyers who signed the open letter to wool growers published in 'The Land' belong to the New South Wales and Queensland Woolbuyers' Association. They are 2-bit wool buyers who account for less than 3 per cent of the direct purchases of wool in Australia. They purchased 144,000 bales in 1973-74, which represented 3 per cent of the total purchases. So we find the Country Party today in this House supporting not really the wool buyers, but a very small, insignificant fraction of the wool buyers in this community. Well we might ask why. 
In this Bill, which the Australian Wool Industry Corporation has supported almost in its entirety, we find a reform which is of major significance. This reform brings onto the Wool Corporation people who are familiar with the major technological changes which are taking place in the wool industry. I draw to the attention of the House two significant events as far as the wool market was concerned which needed curing when this Government took office. The first was that we needed to provide some insurance for wool growers against fluctuating incomes. This Government has done a sterling job in providing that insurance. It has introduced a fixed floor price and has backed its judgment in that regard with $350m worth of credit. When the Opposition parties were in Government they would never support that proposal. 
So this Government has done a great deal to provide some insurance against fluctuating incomes as far as wool growers are concerned. The second major issue- this is where this Bill will be of major significance- is in regard to the technological changes which are taking place in  wool marketing. Who are affected by these technological changes? Members of a narrow group of wool buyers who are among the vested interest group who purchase about 3 per cent of the total clip. These are the people whom the Country Party is defending in the House now. We may indeed ask why they are being supported in this House. In an advertisement in 'The Land' of 14 November there is a complete argument against the trends which are taking place in the wool industry. There are statements like: 
Not nearly enough research has gone into the system . . . 
That is the system of new marketing based on objective measurement. In my case I have had 20 years experience. The people who now support this case and who formed the Government before an Australian Labor Party Government took office spent $1.6m on research into objective measurement. Those people who supported that development now come in here to bat for the people who will be affected by this trend in technology. 
Shame indeed. There is no question about it. What we need on the Corporation, and what the Minister has done in this Bill to ensure it, are people who are sensitive to the great revolution which is taking place in wool marketing and to the fact that we will get economies of the order of $100m to $200m a year for wool growers in this country. What sort of changes do we need? We find that the sorts of people who have signed the document which appears in 'The Land' have a vested interest in the status quo. Not one honourable member on this side of the House would be surprised that members of the Country Party would come out to defend status quo. We find in this case people who make money out of the old system, out of the subjective 'guess or by God' methods on which the wool industry has lived for centuries. 
Now when we find that the march of science and technology is providing answers to all these erroneous approaches to the wool industry, the Country Party is changing stream to support these people who belong to this very narrow interest group. What is involved in this technology? It is very important that we make a distinction between the 3 streams of advice which the Wool Corporation can receive. One stream comes from the trade itself, from those wool buyers who have a lifetime of practice using the traditional methods. Another stream of advice which the Corporation needs to have comes from the scientists who have been intimately involved in the development of this technology and the measurements. Finally, what is vitally needed on the Corporation are those people- they are rare enough- who can stand in both camps and who have some experience as far as the traditional practices are concerned. They are people who have had some experience in the scientific practices. 
There are not many. The Minister, by presenting this Bill - 
We must make exceptions for the honourable member for the Northern Territory. There are not many sheep there. 
The case I am making rests on one simple fact. The case against is argued very adequately in this advertisement. One can go through and extract at random statements from this advertisement. Many buyers do not endorse this method of selling. In April 1974 the international wool textile organisation which represents all major consumers of wool around the world at a meeting in Melbourne gave wholehearted endorsement to these technological changes which the Wool Corporation will have a mandate to initiate. Why has the Minister given to us such an important Bill? He has done so for 2 reasons. Firstly, he recognises that in order to innovate and to get these changes into gear it is necessary to have on the Wool Corporation in the decision-making area a level of technological advice which has never been needed before. So the Minister has extended the membership of the Corporation to take on one other member with special qualifications. If ever there were a time in the wool industry for such a move it is now. This Bill incorporates that provision. 
The next innovation which is incorporated in this Bill provides for consultation with the trade union movement. There can be no question in anybody's mind that the march of technology takes its toll so far as workers are concerned. It is very important that if these innovations are to be introduced sensibly into the wool industry the section of the trade union movement which is involved in wool marketing should be brought into harness.  Mr Speaker,  I put it to you that this never happened before 2 December 1972. Consultation took place with people working in the wool industry so that we might introduce these technological advances which will lead to huge savings from the point of view of wool growers. Again in this Bill we find innovations incorporated which will give the Corporation the opportunity to trade at all levels in the market. How important this is. 
I ask honourable members to remember that the buyers whom the Country Party has defended so avidly in this place tonight are agents. They are not processors. They are middle men. They are buying agents. They are merchants who do not process wool. Their interest lies in preserving the system as it stands because their very bread and butter depends on the system as it stands. In the Bill we have given the Corporation trading powers so that it will be able to introduce innovations which will save money and, in the process, affect the income of these buying agents. Under this Bill the Corporation can move around the merchants and have the wool processed. Probably for the first time in the many speeches that I have made in this House I support the honourable member for New England in his support for Economic Wool Producers. I am completely identified with the company. It was my technical advice which set it up. I am only too pleased to give it a plug tonight and to commiserate with the honourable member for New England over the previous plight of the company. I am quite confident that it will pull itself out of its predicament. But the fact is- this must not be forgotten by the honourable member for New England- that Economic Wool Producers launched itself by stepping aside from these buying agents. 
In fact, whenever the agents who have a vested interest in the traditional system refused to buy wool from Economic Wool Producers at that stage in its development it was able to process the wool into tops and to sell the wool as tops. Only by that method was it able to establish itself in those early and very trying days. In this Bill we are giving the Corporation exactly that power so that it might be able to process wool and push it along the pipeline closer to the point of consumption. What possible use is there in having a great stack of greasy wool around this country when we could have it well on its way down the pipeline, close to the point of consumption, to capitalise on small movements in demand and have it in Britain, Europe, India or wherever there might be some sort of demand? Giving the Wool Corporation full trading powers allows it to do just that and to trade in wool in any geographic position around the world, in any state of processing towards the final consumer. 
It is just plain common sense that this innovation should be brought into the legislation. It is not surprising that the Country Party should oppose it tonight on behalf of this very narrow vested interest group- these buyers who account for 3 per cent of the total purchases in Australiaagainst the wishes of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. In my closing remarks may I pay a fulsome tribute to  Mr Von  Bibra who now emerges as an industry leader- a man concerned with the industry problem and not the political game that the Country Party has played. 
I wish to make a quick point. Obviously the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  does not realise that there is already an organisation- the Joint Wool Selling Organisation- which includes employer and employee groups to engage in that sort of consultation which he has just outlined as being the justification for this amendment. The Joint Wool Selling Organisation exists for that sort of consultation. This amendment is directed at that area which obviously will be an area of greatest change in the future. This is the technology of wool marketing which directly affects the livelihood and the professional status of practically everybody employed in the wool, industry. Until 1972 the people employed in the wool industry were not consulted in these innovations and the way they were introduced into wool marketing. Under this legislation we are making it mandatory that the Wool Corporation involve itself in consultation in these areas. The clause is directed at that specific purpose. It makes good a deficiency which has been very noticeable in the way in which innovations were introduced under the previous Government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the total approved establishment of the Leaders and Office-holders of the Opposition on 1 November 1972. 
What was the annual salary bill for this establishment. 
What is the total approved establishment of Opposition Parties at present. 
What is the annual salary bill for this establishment. 
What is the percentage increase in the current approved establishment over that provided to the Opposition in 1972. 
What is the percentage increase in the salary bill for the current approved establishment over that provided to the Opposition in 1972. 
Is it a fact that the Opposition has paid officials of the Liberal and Country Parties seconded as members of staff of the Leaders. 
Is it also a fact that these seconded Party officials are using facilities provided for Opposition Leaders and Officeholders when they are not entitled to do so. 
If the position is as stated, will the Government take action to see that this improper use of public facilities ceases, and that the cost expended to date is recovered. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the staff and establishment of the Leader of the Opposition on 1 December, 1972. 
What was the annual salary bill for (a) the approved establishment and (b) the staff of the Leader of the Opposition in November 1972. 
What is the current staff and establishment of the Leader of the Opposition. 
What is the current annual salary bill for (a) the approved establishment and (b) the staff of the Leader of the Opposition. . (5) What is the percentage increase in (a) the number of staff provided and (b) the salaries paid to the staff of the Leader of the Opposition over that of the Leader of the Opposition in 1972. 
What was (a) the staff and establishment provided to the Opposition Executive and to the Shadow Cabinet in 1 972 and ( b ) the annual salary bill for this staff. 
What is (a) the staff and establishment provided to the Executives of the Opposition Parties and to the Shadow Cabinet and ( b ) the annual salary bill for this staff. 
Is it a fact that the Leader of the Opposition has employed as members of his staff,  Mr Jon  Gaul.  Mr Geoffrey  Allan and  Mr Tony  Eggleton; if so, by whom are these persons paid 
Is it also a fact that these persons are using the facilities provided to the Office of the Leader of the Opposition Tor the exclusive use of the Leader and his staff: if so. is this a proper use of public funds and facilities. 
If it is found that these facilities have been improperly used will he take steps to recover the cost of their usage. 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to recent proposals to increase the price of petrol? Can the Prime Minister state the cost to rural industries and to other consumers of a 40 per cent increase in the price of petrol advocated by some political leaders? 
-Firstly, I wish to put the record straight. In the debate on this subject last October the Government reviewed the action which had been taken to that date in regard to the serious crisis in the beef industry. I will not go over that ground; I will take the matter up from that point. The position so far as the industry is concerned is that we stand without blemish. This Government has worked in complete co-operation with the cattle industry. Once again in this debate we find how far out of touchthe Australian Country Party in particular has become since it has occupied the Opposition benches in regard to requests made by the industry. We have already heard the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  refer to a letter from the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. Let me refer to a letter that I received from that Council. It is dated 5 December 1974.I might mention to the House that the Council speaks for organisations such as the Graziers Association of New South Wales, the United Graziers Association of Queensland, the Graziers Association of Riverina, the Graziers Association of Victoria, the Stockowners Association of South Australia, the Pastoralists Association of West Darling, the Pastoralists and Graziers Association of Western Australia Incorporated, the Tasmanian Farmers, Stockowners and Orchadists Association, the Northern Territory Pastoral Lessees Association, the Centralian Pastoralists Association and the United Stud Beef Cattle Breeders Association of Australia. It is a representative group. We heard the Opposition claim that the Government has not been in contact with the industry. I quote from the letter which is addressed to me as  Chairman  of the Resources Committee of the Government. That Committee established close liaison with the cattle industry as soon as the crisis started. That liaison has continued from that date. I quote from the letter: 
The announcement made by the Government yesterday . . . 
This is in respect of the $20m-  is in general accord with the requests made earlier by the Australian National Cattlemen's Council and supported by the other producer bodies. 
Your interest in this issue. . . 
That refers to the Committee-  is appreciated and I also wish to thank you for permitting me to have an opportunity to present a case for the cattle industry to your fellow members of the Resources Committee of Caucus. 
It is signed by the Executive Secretary. I make the point that the Council says that the decision to allocate $20m to the cattle industry on the conditions on which those funds were made available was completely in accord with its request of 5 December 1974. We find that the Opposition is not only out of touch with the requirements and requests of the cattle industry but also it is completely misinformed about the negotiations between the Australian trade mission- not the Australian Meat Board- representing the Australian Government and the Russian buyers. The contract is not fictitious. It was signed on 7 February. It has nothing to do with a previous negotiation between private companies in Australia involving 10 000 tonnes of meat which created difficulties last year. This contract for 40 000 tonnes has been negotiated at commercial rates. Considering the announcement that the terms of the contract are confidential, in exactly the same way as any meat importer would respect the confidentiality of such a contract, it would be very interesting to know how the Opposition parties derived this information that the prices which were negotiated are at an uneconomic level. 
The Opposition parties are making great play once again of some myth which they create and float to scare the people whom they are supposed to be representing. They cannot survive unless such myths are created. They cannot survive unless they create fear among the people in the community. The proposition that the prices negotiated in this contract were too low is yet another example of the use by the Opposition of fear tactics in the primary sector of the community. 
Let me now turn to the facts as they have been recorded by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in a report in Occasional Paper No. 25. Once again this report gives the lie to the Opposition 's claim that the Government shows no interest in the beef industry. Let me read to the House an extract from the foreword of this report. It reads: 
The Government requested the Department of Agriculture, in conjunction with the Treasury, to formulate proposals which may be necessary to assist the beef industry in the immediate months ahead. 
The report is dated December 1974. All the opinions were considered. Let me refer to this report in more detail to put the matter in its proper perspective. In its analysis of the market the BAE pointed out that, although beef is produced in a very large number of countries, less than 10 per cent of world output is traded internationally and usually about 80 per cent of world imports are accounted for by the United States of America and the European Economic Community. I repeat that 80 per cent of world imports of beef are accounted for by these 2 markets in which Australia has already established a very firm base and in which the present crisis is politically motivated in order to protect the interests of the domestic meat producers. 
The second point that the BAE makes and to which I should like to draw the attention of the House is that the marked decline in saleyard prices in Australia during 1974 was mainly due to the dramatic turn-around in the supplydemand situation on world beef markets. It was an international phenomena which created this difficulty for the domestic market. One might comment here that the domestic consumers have done a sterling job by increasing beef consumption by almost 50 per cent on previous years. Australians are now eating more beef than ever before and if this were not so the situation would be extremely serious indeed. In this report the BAE makes the point that the developing situation of increasing beef production, in some cases rising stocks of beef, and falling producer incomes led importing countries to take increasingly severe action to restrict imports. The EEC and Japan have virtually banned imports, Canada has restricted them and the U.S.A. has issued warnings against large increases in supplies to that market. 
Those are the predisposing factors. It is interesting to observe that the man who will be drawing $40,000 from the slush funds of industry to oppose the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  has been going around the countryside claiming that the United States of America, the EEC and Japan are closing off their markets in retaliation for some political position adopted by the Australian Government. How absurd and how typical of the Opposition that is in its analysis of such a market. Obviously we need to consider the BAE's assessment in analysing the position if we are in fact to find some sensible solution to the problems which confront the beef market in Australia today. 
The BAE report goes on to define ways in which Government action may be taken. Would any member of the Opposition dispute the fact that these policy options lie in these areas? First, that viable producers need to be assisted to remain in the industry. Second, provide assistance to non-viable producers either to leave the industry or to reconstruct their production units. Third, provide protection for the resource basethe breeding nucleus and the farm infrastructure of the beef producing properties and also expand market outlets for beef. On all counts this Government has taken action. On all counts this Government has had the matter constantly under review almost from the day just 18 months ago when the Opposition and leaders in the beef industry were saying that they did not want the Government to involve itself in the beef market in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
SALES TAX BILLS (Nos 1 to 9) 1975 
Bills presented by  Mr Stewart,  and together read a first time. 
-This Bill, I believe, brings in very much needed reforms affecting relationships between individuals within families. I think it is an answer to the changing social scene that is the product of the materialistic and technological society of which we are now part. If one examines the previous divorce laws one finds that they are largely derived from the pre- 185 7 English ecclesiastical courts and are theological in concept and in basis. If one continues this particular study one finds that there are 63 references to marriage in the Bible. No references are direct quotations of God or Christ. Fourteen of the references which deal with the institution of marriage are the opinions of Paul and are expressed as his view of the relationship between the 2 partners in a marriage relationship. 
We find in both the Roman Catholic and the Protestant traditions no fundamental reference to the relationship of marriage so far as God or Christ is concerned. In fact, this type of investigation reveals that the only references that Christ made to marriage were in terms of answers to such questions as this: If a woman was married to two or three men on earth, who would her husband be in Heaven? There is nothing of substance in the Bible in regard to the fundamental relationship. 
The law under which we have operated in the past has been preoccupied with the concept of sin. One or other of the partners can obtain relief from unhappiness only if a partner can be labelled as the quilty party and this is proven in a court of law. In these laws, as in many others, we find the view that the inevitability of sin as the cause of all human failure and unhappiness is the rationale for the basis of the law. The church has a preoccupation with sin which has, I believe, led it to the position where in recent opinion polls we find that only one-third of the population of Australia has a strong commitment to the church. In that same sample we find that 55 per cent of these people have a strong commitment to the concept of God. I put the proposition that this pre-occupation with sin which in the past has riddled the divorce laws is no solution to the problems of a modern community. The church establishes a position of judgment rather than a position of understanding. The church has grown away from the doctrines that Christ taught. He taught the doctrine of understanding; the church preaches a doctrine of judgment. The church does this unconsciously. It defines sin in black and white by saying to the people 'you cannot do this, you cannot drink, you cannot dance, you cannot do so and so '. Once this definition is made there is a judgment implicit in it. As soon as sin is defined in these clear cut terms it creates an atmosphere of judgment of your fellow man rather than an atmosphere of understanding and surely in a situation such as the modern world presents we need that atmosphere of understanding between people more than ever before. 
It is on that aspect of the previous laws that we find the greatest fault- the need to prove guilt, the need to demonstrate sin, the need to arrive at a position where a fellow man can judge another. This sense of judgement always has to be brought to the fore in relationships between people. It is not only an aspect of the Bill we are now considering but it is indeed an aspect of so many other of the relationships in which the church involves itself. This rigidity has been established on the basis of morality, which logically had a firm base in the days before contraception but most of that logic has now disappeared. It is this rigidity which has led to the situation in which we need a Bill such as the one we are now considering. The contemporary crisis in family relationships results from a large variety of factors including changes in the social philosophy which are emphasising increasingly the freedom of the individual to develop his own philosophy of life and the freedom of the individual to acquire the tools for an analysis of problems. Education has become one of the main aspects- and correctly so- of the civilised communities of which we are a part. Education in itself leads to this type of freedom. A stress is being introduced into family relationships which was not a feature of society in which education did not achieve the same position. Change in the economic status of the family in the modern urban society is also creating increasing stresses on relationships within marriage and without and this again is an area in which we need to adjust our approach to and our thinking on that marriage relationship- the fundamental cornerstone of families in the past. 
In the future especially. Finally, one of the greatest changes that has taken place in regard to marriage is the development of birth control techniques. It is of no use whistling for the past or wishing for the past. The fact is that these birth control techniques exist. That is a fact that cannot be wished away. It is a product of the technological progress our communities have made. These birth control techniques have introduced a completely new dimension into the role that women play in the community at large. Without birth control it was absolutely essential to have a morality and a code of ethics that protected the unwanted child, that ensured that all children were born into an atmosphere of love and understanding- the birthright of every child, the essential atmosphere for that child to develop its personality and to grow. Now with the development of birth control techniques that particular requirement is nowhere near as strong as it was in the past. 
One member of the Opposition called to the future. The future suggests- in fact we can expect it- that man will provide even more efficient contraceptive techniques than we have seen in the past. Until we face up to the fact, a tangible technical fact in our community, then I believe we will be missing the point of the future structure of society. This new found freedom of women- a freedom which allows them to develop their God-given intellect and talents in a way they have never been able to develop them beforemeans that we have to look very seriously at the whole structural relationships of our society, particularly the family structural relationship. Instead of wishing for the past, living in the past, we need now to put these types of relationships under the microscope to examine the problems of the future very carefully in relation to the fact that birth control techniques exist and will become more efficient in the future. 
The logical basis for the old morality in terms of the need to protect the newly born child has disappeared. That logical basis is now held together only by the theological background to our society and woven through our laws. The fact that the logical background to the attitude of society towards marriage relationships has disappeared can be demonstrated by the intuitive reaction of the population to the whole question of marriage relationships. Polls conducted in this country as recently as 18 January of this year showed that 52 per cent of the population sampled do not believe that marriage is a lifetime contract. It is interesting to look at the breakup of the response of these people. Of the people polled those aged between 16 and 19 years expressed the view that marriage is not a lifetime contract. They represented 59 per cent of the population sampled- nearly 60 per cent. The percentage that adopted this response fell as the age group increased. The figure was 56 per cent for people aged between 20 and 29 years, 44 per cent for people aged between 50 and 60 years and 40 per cent for people 70 years and over. 
The fact that the logical base to the previous concepts of marriage and in particular this question of divorce has disappeared has, in my view, been demonstrated by this type of response. People have desires to express friendship and other relationships in all sorts of dimensions. If they find no physical barrier to the way in which they express those relationships we can be sure that they will indeed express their friendships in these forms. These feelings are felt most acutely by the younger members of our community. In essence we are dealing with human relationships. We are not dealing with situations in which it is necessary to pass judgment on our fellow men. This Bill accepts the view that there is no future in trying to assign fault for what is really fundamentally a breakdown in the hopes and aspirations of 2 people who, when they came together and were joined in marriage, believed in all sincerity that they could make a partnership together which would be unique and long lasting. 
We are dealing here with a deeply personal disappointment in terms of the relationship that 2 people saw ahead of them- a relationship which did not materialise. This is no time, this time of separation, for society to conduct its witch-hunt, to try to allocate blame, to try to allocate fault. This is an extremely difficult time for these 2 people. It is a time for understanding, not judgement. This Bill is a sensitive document which emphasises the need for counselling, the need to minimise added friction at this difficult time and the need to consider the physical and emotional needs of the children involved. 
This is a situation in which we cannot neglect the fact that an unsatisfactory relationship between a mother and a father is not uniquely theirs. This friction between mother and father has a deep and abiding effect on the children. The cost of continuing such a frictionous relationship is measured in terms of juvenile delinqeuncy. This cost is measured in the children's courts. This cost is measured in terms of the personalities of children which are distorted by the fact that the 2 people dearest and closest to them are subject to constant warfare in such a close and intimate way that the children cannot escape; more importantly in such a way that the children are almost privy to the friction. 
The children of the family are confronted with a dilemma in human relationships which needs understanding and sympathy but all it attracts from the community outside is harsh judgement. These children, who are not yet able to control their own emotions, are confronted by one of the major disasters in human relationships. This is the price that is paid, yet the present law insists that this domestic warfare should continue into the future. It may have been all right for this type of law to have been imposed on such a relationship when the Church and its doctrines held sway, when close to 100 per cent of the community would swear strong allegience to and strong faith in the Church. The fact is that we now live in a community in which only one-third of the population has that sort of faith, in which only one-third of the population has a faith which allows them to overcome the frictions of such a personal relationship. 
The facts are that the community we live in today in 1975 is not the community that existed in Britain in 1857 which was the genesis of the existing law of divorce. The community- I am being interrupted by members of the Australian Country Party who cannot keep quiet even in a serious debate such as this- in 1985 will be even more in need of the types of reforms this Bill embodies, and even more in need of a sensitive examination of the relationships between people and in particular between individuals in a family bearing in mind the technical changes that will have taken place. 
I believe that this is one of the most significant Bills I have had the privilege of debating in this House. Each of us naturally has to come to our own conclusions on a very close and personal examination. Each of us will come to conclusions on this BUI that are influenced by the value standards that we have inherited, firstly, from our parents and, secondly from our experiences in life. Naturally each of us in this House will have a completely different view on such an intimate relationship as the one that is the main subject of this BUI. I have no hesitation in supporting this BUI. I believe that it is an answer to the changing conditions of the society around us. It is a recognition of the fact that a logical base has to be established for relationships between people and that this base, while logical in the past, has to be looked at in the context of a changing society. This BUI is the first step in that examination. I commend the Bill to the House. 
And the opinion is there set out.  Mr Speaker,  the proposition I put to you is that honourable members are being misled by the use of the words whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading'. Honourable members are being led to the view that that means that if the amendment is carried affirmatively in one way or another the Bill would proceed to a second reading. My understanding is that the exact opposite would be the case. The actual result that would be produced if the amendment was carried would be that the Bill would not proceed to a second reading. In fact it would be deferred probably indefinitely. 

 Mr STEWART (Lang-Minister for Tourism and Recreation)- Thank you very much. I did know when I moved my amendment that was seconded by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  exactly what would be involved in the amendment. It surprises me that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  did not know. 

 Mr STEWART Mr Attorney, you keep on saying those things publicly. Do you want me to repeat two or three things that you have said to me since 5 o'clock this afternoon? Do not interject. I am not going to repeat our private conversations, but do not sit there and interject and say that you know all about it. I am suggesting - 
Bill as did the Senate over a period of two or three years. 
-The matter that we are discussing today is defined as: 
The effect on productivity and employment caused by the Government's rural policies. 
There can be no question what the answer is. This is the first Government that has provided a stable background for the development of rural industries and rural communities. It is the first Government that has commissioned an overall review of the needs and requirements of rural industry. It is the first Government that has paid attention to the social conditions that exist in rural towns. We have heard the Opposition condemn the Government's policy. We have heard a sweeping condemnation which took in things like the fixed reserve price for wool. The Opposition, by making such a sweeping condemnation, obviously objects to the fixed reserve price for wool, the dairy farm reconstruction program and the Government's action taken under the Regional Employment Development scheme to provide funds for rural towns so that an improved standard of living can be provided in those towns. The Opposition in its sweeping charge objects to Government policies. 
Let the countryside recognise what will happen on that disastrous day a long way from now when the people opposite take power. Let the country people see what the Opposition objects to today. It objects to a fixed reserve price for wool. This is consistent with its previous objection when it was in Government. It refused over many years to introduce such protection mechanisms in the wool industry. It refused to introduce the one thing that stands between disaster and security for the wool industry today. The Government has provided such a scheme. But this is what the Opposition is objecting to today. The Opposition also objects to the isolated children's grant which is another very important policy initiated and developed by the Government. The Opposition has made sweeping objections. It has objected to this Government's rural policies. Let the rural communities know exactly what it is the Opposition is now objecting to. 
What does the Opposition offer? We can see from its history what it offers. Just before the 1972 election the Australian Country Party proposed a rural bank. The Liberal Party disposed of it. Prior to that the Country Party proposed a reserve price for wool. The Liberal Party disposed of it. During the 1972 election campaign the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  proposed a price freeze on food. The Country Party disposed of that. Before the 1974 election campaign the Leader of the Liberal Party stood for low petrol prices; the Country 
Party stood for high petrol prices. All the Opposition can offer are these sorts of contradictions. We know that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is equivocating, that he is moving in all directions and that he says: 'It was an example; it was not really meant'. But the spirit of the whole position is that the price of crude oil at the well head will be increased if the Country Party has its way. Because there is poor leadership now at the head of the Liberal Party we find that the Liberal Party is not sure whether it supports the Country Party on this proposition. 
This is what the Opposition is offering to the electorate. We find that the leadership of the Liberal Party is now in extreme stress and is being directly challenged from within that Party. This has resulted in a dismal performance in the House and equivocation on every major issue which would give confidence to the rural sector and other industries. We find too that this uncertainty arising from lack of leadership pervades those people who profess to support the Opposition- the business leaders.  Mr Valder,  the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange, preaches on and condemns socialism. I wrote to that man and asked him what he meant by socialism. He could not define that term. The people who are supposed to be providing confidence to rural industries as a basis for productivity and increased employment do not even know what they are talking about when they go out to the people with their fear raising tactics. 
The tactic of the Country Party is to create the myth and the lie and then to raise fear in the minds of the rural communities. The Country Party is doing this now in regard to the detail of the contract price for meat to be exported to Russia. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Fraser),  who was the previous  speaker  in this debate, condemned the fact that criticism was levelled at the United States of America on the grounds that we supported the Communist Party. But in the same speech he complained that we would not allow the Russians to come in and inspect meat. What does the Opposition expect to find in the electorate? It will find the confusion that it has created. It will kick the Communist can when it suits it to do so. But it will then complain when we cannot sell meat to the Communist countries. If ever there was a time when we needed to adopt a rational and sensible attitude towards foreign affairs it is right now. The rural industries need confidence to create the basis for increased productivity and employment. 
I now turn to the policies that this Government has engendered into the industry. When this 
Government came to office the dairy industry was severely hampered by an inefficient organisation within the industry and was geared to a market that was historically out of date. This Government took the initiative to rationalise the industry and to provide assistance to individual producers and factories so that they could direct their efforts into more productive and rewarding areas. It was this Government that provided the insurance to the wool industry which was the only thing really deficient in the provision of a stable base for its development. It was this Government that provided some assurance against fluctuating prices in the wheat industry. It was this Government that consolidated the position of the sugar industry in world markets. These are the steps that this Government has taken to increase productivity and employment opportunities in rural areas. We stand proudly on our record. 
We heard again today the honourable member for Wannon floating a rumour. The honourable member said that as a result of statements this Government has made people think they can buy cheap wool after June. I challenge the honourable member for Wannon to produce those statements. I challenge the honourable member for Wannon to demonstrate his credibility to this House and produce those statements. We find again that the attitude of creating fear in the minds of the electorate has ricocheted on the Country Party. I wonder how the beef industry feels about the evidence that was given by the Country Party to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices on 22 June 1 973. 1 wonder how the industry feels about the quotation from page 282 of the proceedings of that Committee where the Country Party said: 
The Country Party believes that Government policy inasmuch as it relates to the beef industry should be directed to 
encouragement of production 
I wonder how the beef producers of Australia feel about that advice given to the Government by the Country Party just 18 months ago? 
Another point on which the Opposition needs clearly to define its position is what exactly it is going to do about the superphosphate bounty. Would the Opposition reduce the price of superphosphate to the producer to the price that existed prior to the bounty being lifted? If so, the Opposition needs to realise that this action would cost the government in office $200m in subsidy. The Opposition needs to face up to the implications of its vague assertion that it would restore the superphosphate bounty. Is it really saying that it would restore the bounty to a level that would reduce the price of superphosphate to  where it was before the bounty was lifted? If this is the case the Opposition needs to realise that it would be committing itself to an expenditure of $200m. How does that square off with its philosophical position to cut government expenditure? Let us see the Opposition's balance sheet. Let us just understand exactly what it is that the Opposition is on about in its vague statement in regard to the superphosphate bounty. Does the statement mean, as most farmers believe, that the Opposition would reduce the price of superphosphate to the level it was before the bounty was lifted? If this is so, let the Opposition be honest and declare its hand. Let the Opposition show its balance sheet and how it would incorporate this extra expenditure of $200m in its program of reducing overall government expenditure. 
In conclusion, the report on poverty in Australia shows that the Government inherited a position where 14.4 per cent of the rural community were classified as very poor and 10.8 per cent were classified as rather poor. Therefore, when we took office some sections of the rural sector, which is the largest component of any sector in our society, were poor and destitute. That was our inheritance from the previous Government. We have concentrated our efforts on social areas such as those involving isolated children, education and improved community facilities. These are policies which the Opposition has condemned in its sweeping statement. The Opposition stands against the Government and its policies. It has declared its hand today for all the people in the rural communities to see. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The discussion has concluded. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average traffic density on the portion of the Canberra/Bateman's Bay Road that passes through the A.C.T. on 
weekdays, and 
weekends. 
What proportion of the total traffic flow is accounted for by 
motor vehicles registered in the A.C.T., and 
b ) motor trucks weighing over 5 tonnes. 
What is the average traffic flow on the A.C.T. portion of the Federal Highway as it crosses the border of the A.C.T. and New South Wales on 
weekdays, and 
b) weekends. 
How do these figures compare with traffic flows on similar highways in New South Wales? 

 Mr UREN- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 1.05 vehicles per kilometre 
1.6 vehicles per kilometre 
No information. 
(a) 3600 vehicles per day 
6530 vehicles per day 
figures for N.S.W. roads are: 
The Federal Highway, south of the junction with the Hume Highway, approximately 2700 vehicles per day. 
The Hume Highway, west of the junction with the Federal Highway, approximately 3000 vehicles per day. 
The Barton Highway, south of the junction with the Hume Highway, approximately 1600 vehicles per day. 
-We have in this debate the opportunity to contrast the position of the Government with the position of the Opposition. In the speech by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  we heard a typical two-way bet speech. He tentatively wondered what it was that the country would get. If the people read his speech they will find that the first half was devoted to giving money away and the second half was devoted to condemning the Government for providing the money. We find a contradictory position, the two-way bet, in his speech. The country will know what it will get if it elects the Opposition to the Government benches. 
Let us also consider another position that has developed in the Opposition over recent weeks. It relates to the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition the honourable member of Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Let us examine that proposition for a moment. We find in Hansard of 1 October 1974 a straw man being built by the present Leader of the Opposition.  His  words were: 
The Army has people pouring out of it as quickly as they can go. 
Today we have the largest ever peacetime army in Australia- 3 1 500 men. Contrast that fact with his statement. On 8 April 1974 the Leader of the 
Opposition, in his oft practised tactic of creating fear and uncertainty in the electorate, referred to a conversation which he said took place between the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Immediately the honourable member for Wannon sat down the honourable member for Macquarie disowned that statement. Yet the honourable member for Wannon built up quite an edifice of fear and uncertainty by referring to a fictitious conversation. The honourable member also went round the countryside creating fear and uncertainty in the minds of meat growers by insisting that this Government would sack  Colonel McArthur  as  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board.  Colonel McArthur  still remains in that position. The present Leader of the Opposition once again has his credibility tested. 
As reported in Hansard on 25 September 1974, the present Leader of the Opposition claimed that this Government was charging the Australian Wool Corporation 14 per cent on the money being credited to the Corporation to enable it to carry out a fixed reserve price scheme. For the first time in Australia there was a fixed reserve price, a program that honourable members opposite would not tolerate when in government. It is well known that the interest rate on this money is the bank rate. It is not the 14 per cent that the Leader of the Opposition alleged it to be at that stage. One only needs to leaf through any Hansard speech of the present Leader of the Opposition to find an immediate challenge to his credibility and to find an illustration of the tactic of canvassing an untruth and then building a fabrication on it as a means of attacking the Government. 
It is difficult to know what the Leader of the Opposition stands for. One thing that he has established in his previous speeches is that he does not stand for a flexible exchange rate. It is very interesting to hear the Opposition attacking the Government now over the deficit that exists in the present Budget. The domestic deficit, which is the one that matters so far as inflation is concerned, will be around $ 1,700m. The external deficit, of course, is disinflationary. There is no question that a deficit is inflationary. The Opposition and the Government agree on that point. Let us consider by way of contrast what happened under the management of the previous Government in 1971 and 1972. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  who waxed so eloquent on this theme a moment ago, may well remember that in 1971 $ 1,965 m flowed into this country by way of foreign capital and that in 1972 $ 1,922m flowed in. In those 2 years nearly $4 billion of inflationary money flowed into this country. It makes $ 1 ,700m at this stage pale into insignificance. Those 2 years were the crux of our present problems. The figures are on record. If the argument holds that a deficit of $ 1,700m is inflationary and dangerous, then how much stronger does the argument hold that $4 billion during the 2 years I have mentioned had a major effect on the present inflationary position? 
Honourable members opposite cannot have a twoway bet. In opposition they try to do so. In opposition we know what they present to the country. They present the country with the contradictions in this argument, in the argument of the right honourable member for Lowe, in the argument of the honourable member for Paterson, and with the lack of credibility of thenleader. Well over half the present deficit is due to direct grants paid to industry and to the States for housing. Which of these would the Opposition cut out? Would it, for example, reduce the $670m that has been paid in the form of direct grants to agriculture, which is twice the amount of money which it paid in its last year of government? 
I hear from the Country Party that it is a loan. Of the $670m, $380m is a loan to the Australian Wool Corporation, a very important loan, which has to be accounted for in this year. If the Opposition takes credit for the deficit of $ 1 ,700m and it also wants the loan, as it is called, to the Wool Corporation considered in those terms then it has to deduct it from the $ 1,700m. It cannot have it both ways. It is an inflationary expenditure in this year. We have to consider this if we are considering the overall deficit position of the Government. 
I am being asked whether I want to support wool. It is not the Government that is being examined. It is the Opposition that wants to cut expenditure. It should make up its mind. It wants us to cut expenditure. Does it want us to cut it from the $670m that is going directly to agriculture? 
Do you want us to deduct it from the total of just on $ 1,000m in direct assistance going to secondary and primary industry. Do you want it cut? 
-The speech that we have just heard from the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is completely irrelevant to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Bill which is being debated. The man obviously does not know that the Snowy Mountains Council has been split off from the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. He obviously does not realise that the power generating function of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority has been transferred by an Act of Parliament to the Snowy Mountains Council whose  chairman  has been nominated already and who happens to be the secretary of the Department of Minerals and Energy. The members of the Council have been nominated already. They happen to come from the electricity commissions of the various States. The Snowy Mountains Council has the responsibility to generate the power and sell the power. The Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority has had most of its responsibilities shorn away. Not only has the Snowy Mountains Council been split off from the Snowy Mountains HydroElectric Authority, so too has the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which does not come under the authority of the Minister for 
Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who is at the table. It comes under the authority of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson). 
The new director of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has just been announced. He is  Mr Price,  who was an associate Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains HydroElectric Authority. If the appointment of  Mr Price  is an example of jobs for the boys I am sure, knowing him as well as I do, that he will be the most surprised person to hear the news. The Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority now is a shell of the organisation it once was. This is understandable because the job it was created to do has been done, and done magnificently. The Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority now has to manage the financial responsibilities that are residual to that operation. It has to undertake maintenance on the scheme, and there are some outstanding land issues which have to be settled. 
Very few people would disagree with the spirit of this Bill. One might buy an argument as to whether a commissioner ought to stay in a position of full responsibility for, say, another year. But certainly there would not be many people who would support the proposition beyond that point. As for  Mr Collins,  the present Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains HydroElectric Authority, he has carried out an excellent task. I would like to pay a full tribute tonight to  Mr Peter  Collins who as Acting Commissioner has had a very difficult job during this transitional period involving the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation of having the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation follow certain guide lines. This is partly because obtaining a permanent Director of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation was held up by the Parliament not passing the Remuneration and Allowances Bill and thus the inability of this Government to offer a satisfactory salary to attract a Director to that position. I know that  Mr Collins  is in full agreement with the decisions that have been made by this Government. It is a tribute to this man's humility that he recognises that these decisions have to be made and that he recognises that other people would have to take over these jobs. As I said before, I believe that we should pay a tribute to  Mr Collins  in this debate. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party has demonstrated for us that he failed to appreciate what this Bill is all about. This lack of appreciation is an acknowledgement of the fact that 2 organisations have been split off from the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. The fact that all the positions created have been filled demonstrates the shallowness of the honourable member's claim that this is a dodge to create jobs for the boys. As I read the Bill- perhaps there may be some subtlety to it- it will reduce jobs rather than increase them. Having said that, I think that we need to pick up one or two other points from history because, after all, this is a turning point. This is a turning point from a massive scheme which has received world acclaim, a turning point for organisations, one which was created to operate the scheme and the other to generate new business and new achievements for the engineers who built the project. In spite of what we heard from members of the Liberal and Country Parties, history shows that members of the Liberal Party boycotted the scheme when it was commenced in 1949 under the Chifley Government. Not one member of the Liberal Party was present at the opening of the scheme. Yet tonight we heard members of the Opposition claim credit for this scheme. 
We also heard the proposition that there is an overlapping of employment between the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and the Snowy Mountains Council. This proposition does not stand examination because the technicians operating the Snowy Mountains Councilthese are the people who are skilled in generating and delivering power- are not the engineers who are required to build new schemes. The skills and the type of challenges that were offered first by the Snowy Mountains Authority and now by the Snowy Mountains Council are quite different and quite separate. We now have an administering organisation. We have an organisation which is geared to sell power. The originality and innovation that were enshrined in the Snowy Mountains Authority have been peeled off and put into the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. So different in fact are the functions of the two bodies that the division in functions, between the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Minister for Housing and Construction is complete. 
We as a country were able to launch the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, which now draws business from many countries, on the achievements of the Snowy Mountains Authority. One of the very important things that the engineers of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation must grasp- and I say this as the Federal member representing the town of Cooma on which this whole complex is based- is that there is a great difference between having a captive job, as was the case in the scheme that has been constructed, and having to go out and find work. One of the new talents that is necessary in the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is that of salesmanship and going out into the world and drumming up business. This is something that did not have to be done under the Snowy Mountains Authority. 
This small Bill which seeks to amend the original Act proposes simply to bring into line the responsibilities of the Snowy Mountains Authority. It simply provides a directorate for the Snowy Mountains Authority which is commensurate with the reduced responsibilities that the Authority has. It is in every sense of the word a caretaker organisation, a shell of the great organisation which constructed the scheme that we know so well. The Snowy Mountains Council, on the other hand, is a strong and virile group which will exist as long as the organisation is generating power. Most of the comments that the Leader of the Australian Country Party directed at this legislation tonight should have been directed at the Snowy Mountains Council. This legislation has nothing at all to do with the operation of the scheme. 
It is an acknowledgment of history and at this stage a development of the organisation. I believe, it is worthwhile just to ponder the significance of what is one of the finest achievements in engineering in the world. The Snowy Mountains scheme which was carried out by Australians is a tribute to those who worked on it, and a tribute to the Chifley Government which initiated the organisation. It is a tribute to the faith of that Prime Minister in Australians. Although it might appear that we are putting the Snowy Mountains Authority to rest, I believe that we are seeing the turning point between the Snowy Mountains Authority whose achievements have been discharged in Australia and the new organisation in SMEC which will see Australians demonstrate that they can carry this sort of achievement to overseas countries. I am extremely proud to represent these people as their Federal member. I can assure them that we will go from strength to strength provided that they themselves bring to bear under SMEC the same drive and innovation as they displayed under the Snowy Mountains Authority. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I rise tonight to talk about the attitude of the New South Wales Premier towards the funds that are being given to his Government by the Australian Government for local government activities. Recently three men were laid off by the Crookwell Shire Council on the grounds that it did not have funds to employ those men. This occurred about 2 months ago. It occurred at a time when the New South Wales Government received $76. 6m from the Australian Government in order to avoid the type of event that occurred in Crookwell. At the Premiers' Conference in February the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  insisted that this money would be used by the States to avoid retrenchments in State and local government instrumentalities, yet when the Crookwell Shire Council approached the State Government it was informed that the State Government had no money because the Australian Government was starving it of funds. Not only did New South Wales get this grant of $76.6m as recently as February, but also it received from this Government record grants to discharge its responsibilities under both tied grants and general revenue grants. 
Since the Government took office the States have received increases of nearly 60 per cent in funds allocated to them by the Australian Government. Yet we find this persistent statement being made by the Premier of New South Wales and his Ministers that they have no funds with which to discharge their responsibilities towards local government. The Crookwell Shire Council is one of a number that has flagged this particular problem. Each time they approach the State Governmrent they are told that the Australian Government is starving the State of funds. I believe that there are a number of questions raised. The first is the simple question: How much faith can we place in the State Government and its capacity to meet its commitments? Did the New South Wales Government really take seriously the statement made by the Treasurer when allocating the $76.6m to New South Wales for the purpose of avoiding retrenchments, or did it take that money under false pretences? Not only in Crookwell, although this is the most blatant example in my electorate, but right throughout my electorate the State Government has failed to deliver that money to avoid retrenchments in local government projects. Another point which needs to be considered in regard to the attitude that the States are displaying is whether other mechanisms need to be devised to make sure that local government is not starved of funds. In the roads grant the States were given $1,1 60m for roads. 
Not enough, we hear from the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  If that was not enough then how much less could they expect from the Opposition if it were in government? Three years before, the LiberalCountry Party Government gave the States $840m. Since that time, our Government has given the States $1,1 60m plus adjustments- a massive increase. We took the full responsibility for the national highway system in New South Wales; an amount of $28m was budgeted for that highway system which included the Hume Highway and the New England Highway. It was supposed to go to local government bodies but they never saw it. That $2 8m has evaporated into the coffers of the New South Wales  State Government. Where did that money go to? The question needs to be answered by the New South Wales State Government. It was all very well for  Sir Charles  Cutler in the Goulburn by-election to stand up and claim that his Government had spent $53m on the Hume Highway over 2 years. Yet 2 months later, such is his judgment of honesty, he claimed that his Government had not spent anything and in fact the commitment by the Australian Government to national highways had released no funds. It is great for  Sir Charles  Cutler to make such a claim on an election platform when it suits him to big-note his Government. It then seems possible for his Government to turn around and take exactly the opposite point of view 2 months later, when it suits him to cry poor mouth to the Australian Government. 
I believe that this is something to which the electorate should have its attention drawn. No other federal government has given such large funds to the States. No other Federal Government has embarked upon so many community projects that involve the people at the grass roots level.  Sir Charles  Cutler goes to Braidwood and tells the people that the grants from the National Estate cannot be approved by the State Government. Why could they not be approved? He said that the States needed the responsibility for that money. He said that it was not proper for the Braidwood Historical Society to have the responsibility.  Sir Charles  Cutler, this man who condemns the Australian Government for being socialist in its nature, is not prepared to disseminate this money to the people at the grass roots level. The Liberal and Country Parties have no confidence in people to manage their own money in community affairs. The Braidwood Historical Society could not get the money from the National Estate because the State Government had no confidence in members of the Society as people to administer the money. This is on record. The State Government wants it all its own way. The moneys given to State governments for community projects is disseminated but we do not know where. The money is given to local groups, but the State Government objects because it believes that it and it alone has the authority and reponsibility to administer the funds. 
What wonderful support I have just received from the honourable member for Curtin. He will now rush from this House and check out the facts, and I am sure that he will condemn the Premier of New South Wales. This is pathetic. We have just heard this from the honourable member for Curtin. Of course it is pathetic that a State should use these funds in these ways and not apply them at the grass roots level. Of course it is pathetic that the Crookwell Shire should retrench 3 men. Three men's salaries are denied to Crookwell Shire because the State Government is not prepared to find some of the $76.6m given to it in February to avoid just that situation. Of course it is pathetic that this should take place. It is incredible that the people of New South Wales should tolerate this situation for as long as they have done. In many areas, the building of pre-schools has been held up in the electorate because the New South Wales Government has procrastinated and refused to allow the Australian Government program on education to be initiated. We need to take a good hard look at the inheritance in EdenMonaro when this Government took office. To take my lead from the honourable member for Curtin, the roads were just pathetic. After 23 years, we see roads called highways still unsealed. After 23 years, we see a road connecting the Australian Capital Territory with the coast, a 35-mile-an-hour road over bridges that are falling apart. This is the legacy which we are left from a Liberal-Country Party Federal Government, and a State Government that refused to accept its responsibilities. From a government which was prepared to allow $4 billion of overseas funds to come into this country, to buy the country and to create the base for inflation, this is the legacy that we are left. It has been well and truly perpetuated by the Premier of New South Wales by his denial of funds to local government authorities and grass root organisations such as the Braidwood Historical Society. We need to see an end to this and I believe that that electorate will make sure that that end is nigh. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. He will be aware of the fact that the Crookwell Shire Council is being forced to retrench 3 workers. Has the New South Wales Government been given funds to avoid this action? Also, has the New South Wales Government increased its roads grants for 1974-75? 
-Just to put the record straight I want to quote from page 586 of the Hansard report of evidence given before the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices where I asked the  President  of the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation,  Mr Douglas  Campbell, this question: 
Your proposal to the Government for promotion levy. Indeed, you propose a slaughter levy of from 2c to 5c per pig slaughtered. So you are suggesting that the industry itself should pay for this promotion? 

 Mr Campbell replied: 
Yes- 
An unqualified 'yes'. That is, he said that the industry should pay for this promotion. That proposal was enshrined in the Federation's submission to the Government. This set of Bills are a reflection of the industry's request for an increase in the slaughter levy to provide promotional funds. It is prepared to raise these funds from within the industry. I understand that administrative expenses that are incurred by reason of the fact that we have a government representative on the Promotion Committee will be met from the promotion fund and expenses that are incurred by departmental representatives in the normal course of their duties will be met by the Department. So administrative costs for this fund are not likely to be so large as to erode the capacity of the money to promote pig meat. 
We should note that this is a domestic market. The only export market for pig meat that we have enjoyed over the past few years has been Japan. It is a fluctuating market which sometimes takes a very large amount and sometimes an extremely small amount from Australia to make up deficiencies in Japan's domestic industry. Japan has a very large and virile pig industry. So it is necessary to promote pork and other pig meat products mainly in the domestic market and this has been accepted by the pig industry and was the basis of its approach to the Government for this fund. It is an industry-sustained fund directed at promoting pig meat on the domestic market when the opportunities present themselves. 
There is unlikely to be a continuing demand on funds. I believe that herein lies a very important distinction between research funds and promotion funds which this Government has used as a rational for its approach to financing agriculture in these 2 areas. Clearly research is an ongoing process. If we undertake a research program, it is necessary to continue it through. The pay-off from a particular research project will not necessarily come in the first year, and rarely will it do so. It is necessary to make sure that research funds are relatively stable and that there is an assured flow of funds. Therefore if we can finance research from Consolidated Revenue it is far better for all the interests concerned. It has been the policy of this Government to move the financing of research for industry funds into Consolidated Revenue and the financing of promotion into industry funds. That is the rationale behind that particular approach. That change in financing these 2 endeavours is the distinction between the present Government and the previous governments. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  complained about this method. I simply emphasise that the rationale for this lies in the fact that research needs continuing funds, and by definition promotion needs fluctuating funds. In those years when large funds are collected from the industry, they can be stored away until the demand for promotion presents itself. That is all I should like to say on these 2 Bills, except that in responding to the industry's requirements, the Government has met, in every sense of the word, the request of the industry. In my view it has also re-inforced the position of the industry with regard to the domestic market. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to a report in which it is alleged that the efficiency of his administration has been plagued by illness and that it suffers from a lack of good personal staff? What action can be taken to protect the Minister and his staff from such ill-founded allegations? 
I rise in reply to the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  I think his speech represented a peculiar way of raising difficulties that occur in electorates. The first I heard of difficulties or foreseen difficulties likely to be experienced by brickworks in my electorate was when the honourable member for Balaclava told me this morning- I thank him for this- that he would raise the matter in the House today. So I start at a disadvantage. The people in my electorate who presumably will be affected do not feel that they will be affected seriously enough to approach their Federal member, although I understand that the Melbourne directors of the companies, wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 1 8 April, which was not very long ago, and the issues that have been canvassed here today were alluded to in that letter. 
We have a delicate situation. I suspect that the points raised by the honourable member for Balaclava are likely to open issues which would be uncomfortable for the brickworks that he is trying to protect. For example, I am informed that freight on bricks from Bowral is subsidised. I know for a fact that the profitability of brickworks in Eden Monaro has not been very significant. The 'Australian Financial Review' states that the Highland Brickworks Ltd in Cooma incurred a loss of $1 14,000 in the March half-year. So if we are to use profitability as some measure of success we are in fact opening up an issue which could be very embarrassing to the brickworks that are important to me and to my electors. Quite frankly, I feel that this is not the place to examine this issue in this sort of manner. It is absolutely essential that we look at the projections of, for example, the brick usage in Canberra and the surrounding regions, against all the available information. 
As a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I am aware of the very rapid development that is forecast for Canberra over the next 10 years or so, -when the population will rise from about 180 000 to 500 000. Quite clearly, the potential for the sale of bricks in Canberra is very great. I am informed that the demand for bricks in Canberra has been rising at the rate of 10 per cent per annum over recent years. It dropped to 6 per cent recently, but we can look forward to very large increases in the demand for bricks in the near future. Also I find the honourable member's argument dangerous in the sense that as the Federal member of Parliament I have received representations from private enterprise to establish other brickworks in the electorate of 
Eden-Monaro. It is interesting to note that on each occasion on which private enterprise has approached me with a case for the establishment of other brickworks in Eden-Monaro the point has been made that the demand for bricks in this region is not being met satisfactorily. So the honourable member cannot have the argument both ways. 
It is quite clear that the proposed development of the Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd has to be considered in the light of the overall brick market. It is unlikely that anybody can make the argument that the Commonwealth Brickworks should not survive. It was there first. It supplies a market which is largely a government market; it supplies bricks for government houses. The argument that the Commonwealth Brickworks has no right to be in the market can be justified only in terms of a reduction in completion. Surely the private enterprise sector does not really want to go in to bat on that particular argument. I am very concerned about the possibilities of retrenchment in the brickworks in my electorate. I find it quite disappointing that the issue should be raised in these circumstances. I am confident that the arrangements that can be made between the respective Ministers involved and myself will ensure that the existing work force in Eden-Monaro will be protected. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. Has his attention been drawn to secret instructions the Australian Mutual Provident Society is issuing to members of its staff asking them to write to their members of Parliament? Is he aware that the AMP has asked the employees to express in those letters opposition to the establishment of the Australian Police Force? Is this instruction in any way related to any legitimate concern of the insurance industry - 
House you would have stopped him long ago. The question is out of order. 
-I wish to refer to an incident that occurred this week which is something like amateurs going in for a game and then suddenly discovering that they are up against professionals. They then go off screaming to get the rules changed. I refer to the fact that  Mrs Rolfe  has found it necessary to withdraw from the superphosphate inquiry being conducted by the Industries Assistance Commission. This is the most absurd situation that could have developed.  Mrs Rolfe  is the one person on the inquiry who has an in-depth knowledge of farming, of the problems associated with agriculture. Now the farmers have forced her off the inquiry because she is fundamentally a very honest woman, and a woman with great respect for the Industries Assistance Commission. She has voluntarily withdrawn from the inquiry in order that the Industries Assistance Commission's reputation will be protected. The losers in this situation are the farmers, the people whose case is being represented on the Industries Assistance Commission. There can be no question about that because  Mrs Rolfe  's record is well known to them. 
Today's 'Australian Financial Review' contains innuendoes which I believe that the Aus.tralian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council needs to answer if it is to protect its reputation. I will read part of the article contained in the 'Australian Financial Review'. It states: 
Within some rural organisations there is considerable resentment of the position  Mrs Rolfe  has reached both in the IAC and as a member with special qualifications on the Board of the Australian Wool Corporation. 
Her appointment to the Board was strongly opposed by the woolgrowers' parliament- the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
The article went on to say: 
The Australian Financial Review was told yesterday by usually reliable sources that the AWGC lobbied at least one other rural organisation pressing for a statement to be issued calling for  Mrs Rolfe  's removal from the phosphate inquiry. 
The article continued: 
It is known that a representative of the AWGC,  Mr D.  Trebeck, discussed  Mrs Rolfe  's statement with  Mr Anthony  's office on Monday morning. 
Further, the article said that a spokesman for the Australian Farmers Federation said: 
The way the matter turned out it could be the best result that under the circumstances could be hoped for . . . 
The article suggests that in addition to forcing  Mrs Rolfe  off the inquiry because of a perfectly sensible statement that she made to the Agricultural Bureau at Bookham there is also a political innuendo. Surely the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council ought to regard it as imperative to dissociate themselves from that innuendo if in fact it is untrue.  Mrs Rolfe  fundamentally said that it is a peculiar state of affairs that in Australia which has soils that are completely different from those in Europe we have a farming system which is uniquely European and that we are forced, as it were, in our environment to take the species and animal products that have been developed in Europe. 
She argued both to the Agricultural Bureau and on the radio: Would it not be more sensible to look for species which are uniquely suitable to the Australian environment? The farming organisations of Australia ganged up against her on that point of view. A letter was written by  Mr Don  Eckersley of Western Australia to  Mr Rattigan  suggesting that  Mrs Rolfe  had been somewhat indiscreet in this episode. The fact is that  Mrs Rolfe  is an expert and was invited by the Agricultural Bureau to address its members. She put a point of view which can only be regarded as a thought provoker. Surely if the farming organisations were properly equipped they could have answered  Mrs Rolfe  instead of racing off to have her removed from the IAC. This episode has demonstrated that the farming organisations are not equipped yet to put an objective argument. The people they have employed apparently have been used on this occasion to lobby to avoid the confrontation that the objective argument suggests ought to take place. Before this incident there were discussions and complaints from farm organisations that  Mrs Rolfe  had been too hard in her questioning on the Industries Assistance Commission. The whole point of the operation is to get to the facts and, on this occasion, it was to provide a fundamentally objective argument in regard to the superphosphate bounty. This is so in any inquiry which the IAC might happen to take up. We find that if the questioning gets too hard for the farm organisations they race off to have the rules changed. The amateurs when confronted with the professionals are not prepared to continue the game. They want the rules to be changed. 
The whole situation is of fundamental importance in the political scene in which we live now. Farm organisations must be more objective in the presentation of their cases. They must recognise that the facts which underlie Government policy must be carefully examined. Because this process was apparently being undertaken in the IAC the farm organisations raced off to have the rules changed. This situation will have to be faced up to by the farm organisations. Thenspecial lobbying group in this Parliament, the Australian Country Party, has changed its name. It now calls itself the National Country Party of Australia. It made a great show of the fact that it changed its name to the National Country Party. We ask ourselves why it did that. It did so, as the Party says, because it wanted to broaden its base. It cannot have it both ways. It cannot have a narrow base which is uniquely farm orientated. It cannot speak only for the farmers in this place and, at the same time, change its name to broaden its base and take in the interests of other sections of the community. 
The National Country Party cannot have it both ways. In this Parliament it cannot be the unique and specialised spokesman for the farm communities and, at the same time, represent other sectors of the community. The fact is that the National Country Party has recognised in its dying gasps that in order to survive it has to broaden its base. In other words, it has ceased to be the unique and special pleader for agriculture in this place. 
That is a great National Country Party interjector this time. The only way in which this situation can be counteracted is for the farm groups to provide a more rational and objective approach to government than they have been able to do in the past. Here we have a very significant encounter in the Industies Assistance Commission. What do the farm groups do? They take the scalp of the one person on the inquiry who has an in depth knowledge of farming and who on her record might have been expected to be completely sympathetic with the special position of the farmers. In fact, on her record she has pleaded for the farmers from a uniquely special interest position. I know  Mrs Rolfe  personally. I know her record. She deserves the honours which this Government has bestowed upon her. She is a woman who will discharge those honours with great credit to herself and to the people she represents. It is a tragedy of a major order against the farm community which the farm community, in its ignorance, has brought upon itself. I believe that this House ought to take special note of the situation which has developed. 
We have in  Mrs Rolfe  a person of professional experience in agriculture. Because she is honest, because she puts a point of view and because she has gone to the farm community and said: Think, again; think very carefully; there are arguments you must answer', the farm community instead of responding to the challenge calls for her scalp. I believe it would have been a grave injustice to  Mrs Rolfe,  to the farm community and to the whole purpose of finding objectivity in these matters to let this situation go unnoticed. 
We have just heard from the aware, alert, attentive honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who condemned the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  for not taking part in these electoral debates. Of course the fact is that the Western Australian redistribution was dealt with in 1973. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie quite clearly has no particular motivation to participate in this debate. If he did he would do so on the grounds that he represents the largest electorate in Australia. A member of the Australian Labor Party represents the largest electorate in Australia, and a Labor member represents the largest electorate in New South Wales. The members who have experience of representing large electorates are found on the Government side. The members who have to come to terms with the difficulties and problems that those electorates present are found on the Government side. They do not whinge; they do not complain; they do not excuse their poor performance; they do the job. 
-We have seen today the old trick played again. The Liberal Party opposes and the National Country Party proposes. We have heard today from the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  the proposition that the beef industry should have been promised $100m. The industry was promised more than $ 100m by the Country Party in 1972. The Country Party proposed the establishment of a Rural Bank. But who disposed of that? Their Liberal Party colleagues disposed of it. We find now the trick being played around the proposition that the Government should be condemned. The Liberal Party is now condemning the Government for spending money and we find the National Country Party proposing further expenditure. The contradictions that exist in the coalition are becoming manifest and obvious now to all who wish to look at them. Now we find the National Country Party condemning this Government which has probably introduced more reforms and more real programs into agriculture than any previous Australian government in history. 
What do the members of this National Country Party who profess to be so expert and who are so quick to condemn, have to offer? At the recent great extravaganza held at the Lakeside International hotel- a very rural setting- the Country Party changed its name and broadened its interest. It decided that it would no longer speak for farmers alone. We find that amongst the handouts at that conference there was one piece of paper headed 'Primary Industry', along with the aspirins- now we know why they were provided to the delegates- which contained the socalled policy of the National Country Party in relation to primary industry. If it were not for the fact that the letters were printed so large and spaced so widely the whole policy could be printed on the back of a dollar note. Here on one sheet of paper is the policy of the National Country Party, which presumes today to condemn, in relation to primary industry. What do we find? The policy is stated in very precise, meaningful terms. Suppose a dairy farmer wants to know what the National Country Party will do for him. The piece of paper states: 
The creation by Government of an economic climate in which primary industry could be self-sufficient and profitable. 
What does that sort of generalisation mean, coining from an extravagant conference such as the one the National Country Party held over at the Lakeside Hotel? The journalists went there expecting hard news. They took their nutcrackers. What did they get? They got watery milk. Instead of the conference being the consummation of a new relationship in politics, it turned out to be hardly a massage. The National Country Party when in Opposition will promise the world. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  when introducing the motion complained that the Government had done nothing for local government, an area where there is a real crisis in rural areas. The National Country Party is putting the proposition that 5 per cent of taxation revenue should be directed to local government. Revenue can only be redirected to local government if the constitutional authority for this to happen is given to this Parliament otherwise it has to go to the State governments. (Quorum formed) The expressed purpose of that little action was to deny the public the real facts. The Government has done more for agriculture than any other government in the history of Australia. The so-called mentors of the National Country Party adopt the tactic of advocating assistance for local government but when the Government seeks the constitutional power to enable it to give this assistance, it is opposed by the National Country Party. Members of that Party should hang their heads in shame. 
Members of the National Country Party talk about the wool market. Let me read to honourable members what the Leader of the National Country Party, who has just spoken, had to say on the subject of whether there ought to be the sort of reserve price protection we have provided for the wool market. On 15 November 1970 he expressed the view of the then Australian Country Party in these terms: 
I repeat what I have said on earlier occasions: The scheme is not intended to force or defy the wool market, but to test it and to get the best and most realistic price the market can pay. 
I am afraid those growers who believe wool users can be forced- in this day of ready availability of cheaper though perhaps inferior textile substitutes- to pay a certain price for wool are not facing up to the realities of the situation. 
-The Leader of the National Country Party said it in opposing the proposition that we ought to have a reserve price, a fixed reserve in the market. Not only did he say that, but when giving evidence on meat prices to the Joint Committee on Prices- and the right honourable member conveniently reminded me about this- the then Country Party's advice to the Government was: 'Hands off the beef industry and increase production'. Representatives of the Country Party were telling this Government to increase production in the beef industry. I put it to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there would be very few beef producers in Australia today who would have been pleased if the Government had taken that particular advice. I remind the House that the Country Party said to the Government: 'Hands off the beef industry; do not go near it'. 
We had a situation in which it was quite obvious that the Government had to be involved in the beef industry. We took every possible measure open to us to keep the markets of the world available to the Australian beef producers. Not only that, but we also provided loan funds on terms to the beef industry which had never been excelled. We were criticised in the first instance for providing $20m at the bank interest rate. An amount of $10.5m, or well over half of the $20m provided has already been taken up in the first 5 months of this scheme. I put it to honourable members that if this money was not attractive it would not have been taken up by beef producers. Of course, the Government has supplemented that amount with another $20m at a low rate of interest. Nothing was ever done along those lines by the Opposition when it was in government. The Opposition was never prepared to assist agriculture in these ways simply because the National Country Party proposed and the Liberal Party disposed. The National Country Party belongs to a coalition. It puts up wild ideas because it does not have any responsibility. It even acted in this way when it was a partner in government because the Liberal Party was there to pull it back. It is significant that a Liberal spokesman has not participated in this important debate. It looks very much like the Liberal Party is washing its hands of the National Country Party in every significant way. After its performance at the Lakeside, who could blame it. 
I address my question to the Acting Treasurer. Is he aware of reports that the wool market is  stengthening?  What would be the situation in the event that the Australian Wool Corporation sold off its stocks? Where would those funds be returned? 
-We have just heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the usual speech, based on his own imagination, based on his own theories and based on his own dreams. He stood in this House and even postulated what I had said to the people outside this House. I will tell this House what I told them. I told those people that the National Country Party and the Liberal Party have resolutely refused to introduce a reserve price scheme. I told those people outside that we here are the Government. There are many backbenchers on the Opposition who know what sort of a government they would have if that government were led by the present Leader of the Opposition. Every backbench member of this Government has a part to play in the decision making process. We are proud of the fact that the Government of which we are part is a complete unit which, in its unity, takes note of what backbenchers have to say. In this sense, I can appreciate the interjections coming from Opposition benches. Opposition members are envious. This Government takes note of what backbenchers have to say. Opposition members know what they would get at the hands of the Leader of the Opposition, that back-stabbing man who has taken so many political careers on that side of the House that it is dangerous for any Opposition member to turn his back while the honourable member is present. 
The matter of public importance raised for discussion addresses itself to the decision making processes. Let us look at some of the decision making processes that this Government has as a precedent I take the House back to December 1971 when, at Christmas time the question being considered by the then Cabinet was devaluation. We had a situation in which the members of that Cabinet, drawn from the present Opposition parties, were so trusting of each other that they locked themselves in the Cabinet room for 3 days. They did so because not one of the Ministers could be trusted not to leak the decisions of that Cabinet. We have heard about people's destinies and people's careers as well as people's incomes being dependent on decisions. I ask: The incomes of how many people were dependent on a decision about devaluation? Yet, we had that Cabinet locked in the Cabinet room for 3 days.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be interested to know that the only thing that sprung a leak on that occasion was the Prime Minister's cistern and a plumber had to be brought in to fix it. This Government has a precedent in the actions of the Opposition with respect to decision making. That is the sort of decision making in which members of the Opposition indulged when they were in power. 
I turn to the subject that is under consideration. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  when he was Minister for Primary Industry, issued a Press statement on 15 November 1970. 1 shall read it. In that statement he said: 
The reserve price mechanism is not designed to force prices up but to moderate or level out the instability of auction prices. 
He continued: 
I repeat what I said on earlier occasions.  (Quorum formed) 
When I was interrupted, I was quoting from a statement by the present Leader of the National Country Party when he was Minister for Primary Industry. In that statement, the Minister set himself against a fixed reserve price. I can remember the occasion quite vividly. I have had a long commitment to reserve price schemes. I was a member of the Crawford Committee. The recommendations of that Committee were rejected by the then Minister for Primary Industry, the present Leader of the Country Party. I make no secret of that particular affiliation of mine. I well remember the 1965 debacle when the Country Party refused to go on to the hustings to support Australian Wool Board members who were nominated not to be political but to do their jobs in relation to the requirements of the market place. The members of the Australian Wool Board at that time had to fill a political vacuum because members of the Country Party refused to go on the hustings and to support in 1965 a reserve price scheme. 
We are being condemned at the moment by the Opposition for not making statements. I refer to a statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  and repeated here today, as to what the policy of this Party was. I quote from page 2660 of Hansard of 22 May, in which the  Deputy  Leader is reported as saying: 
I personally believe that there is a difficulty in a premature announcement of the level and support until the closure of this wool selling season. However, the parties on this side of the House believe that that level of support should be at least at the present rate of 250c. 
The Government has bettered that position. Not only has it given its support to the reserve price of 250c but the Government has also announced that it is behind that scheme, so that the industry now knows what to do. The National Country Party was not prepared to make this announcement until the end of the season. But once members of that Party had the scent in their nose, once they saw that they could disturb the situation and create the usual instability that they are so fond of creating in agriculture, they went in for it, boots and all. They were the ones, without a Government announcement- and that Government announcement was made todaywho created that situation. No Government announcement about this matter was made until today. Yet, members of the National Country Party were prepared to create instability in the industry by capitalising on all the publicity they could generate. 
I discover that, seconds after the announcement was made in Kings Hall of the Government's decision, we had the spectacle of the Leader of the National Country Party racing out through King's Hall and across the road to the farmers gathered there to claim credit for the National Country Party for that decision. Goodness me, what hypocrisy this is! These are the people who are prepared to capitalise on such issues in order to create dissention. The facts of the matter are that the National Country Party was bitterly disappointed. Its sole mission is to create disturbances and to see and to wreak havoc in country areas. I contrast the behaviour of members of the National Country Party and that of the industry leaders in relation to this episode. In my view, the industry leaders maintained a most rational, cool approach to the whole matter. They are a credit to the people they lead. They co-operated realising that the future of the industry was at stake and that it was important to dampen down the speculation that was being generated in newspapers by the National Country Party. Industry leaders realised that the only way by which the Government could come to a rational, objective and sensible conclusion on this matter was to dampen down that type of speculation. Those industry leaders were not helped by the National Country Party; they have not been in the past. I pay a tribute to those industry leaders for the way they handled themselves on this occasion. 
We also hear from members of the National Country Party comments about agricultural policy. We all know where the agricultural policy of the National Country Party will fit; that is, squarely on the back of a dollar note. After all these years of experience, after all this time of representing the farmer interest, we discover that the National Country Party can fit its policy on the back of a dollar note. That is the way in which it has always been. I quote to the House from an article written by  Dr Aitken  entitled The Politics of Rural Policy '. In that article, the author says that  Mr Fadden,  as he then was, said: 
A plan crystallised in my mind. But when I wanted to put it on paper I found paper to be in short supply. Every hotel lavatory, however, is equipped with an essential supply and this, despite its fragile nature, served my purpose. Sitting in my pyjamas, I mapped out the points of the plan. 
-Were they shorties! There is no question about it: The policy was a shorty. On that occasion, the policy would not have fitted on to a dollar note as in fact we find that the newborn National Country Party policy will just do. 
In the process we have witnessed, the Government has made the decision. Every member on this side of the House is proud to be associated with a government that involves the backbenchers and Ministers in these decisions. We see in this process of policy making the whole ethos of democratic government coming to a head. Opposition backbenchers who see that man, the Leader of the Opposition, ready to knife the next rebel in the back are resentful of our democratic process. Back benchers in the Opposition are resentful of the fact that the Government is indeed a government in every sense of the word and that back benchers on the Government side are able to bring their views and the views of their electorates into the decisionmaking process. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 

-The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  has quite correctly summarised this Government's attitude towards wool. He quoted the statement from our policy platform in which we claim- and we have pursued this line- that we should acquire and/or market the clip. It was clear when that policy was drawn up that the proposition of acquisition needed a good deal more examination and did not deserve a very strong commitment and the words 'and /or' obviously provided the way out. It was not a strong commitment to acquisition. On the other hand, we have introduced a streamlined Wool Industry Act which gives the Australian Wool Corporation the most powerful marketing and trading relationships in the wool market that any trade organisation in wool has ever had. Before I finish referring to the remarks of the honourable member for Canning, it is interesting that the honourable member should here today commit himself so completely to a wool industry report which in essence says: 'You give the wool away when the price is high'. I wonder how the wool growers of Australia will feel about that commitmentthat they give the wool way when the price gets high. That is in essence what the wool industry report recommended. Let nobody lose sight of that fact at this time of low prices. 
It is also interesting to note that a Liberal should stand up here today and defend a floor price. The Liberal Party vigorously opposed the floor price in 1965 with its colleagues in the Australian Country Party who refused to go on to the political hustings and left the whole political effort to the Australian Wool Board. The muddled thinking comes through very loud and clear if we read from the script of an interview with the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  on the television program This Day Tonight' of 27 May 1975. The Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  said: 
Who put in the floor price of 36c a pound? Who brought that in? 

 Senator Wriedt Not your Government. 

 Mr Anthony: It was our Government. 

 Senator Wriedt: It was not a floor price. 
I put this on record for the students of wool history.  Mr Anthony  then said: 
It was a floor price. It was a floor price of 30 cents a pound with a guarantee to the wool growers of 36 cents a pound, and that cost the Australian Government 50 million in subsidy to the wool grower and a $1 10 million to support the floor price scheme, and don't try to distort that fact. 

 Mr Anthony's facts are so far from the truth it is not funny. The Liberal and Country Parties were not committed to a floor price. In fact, at that stage  Mr Anthony  made statements along those lines justifying the reason the then Government would not accept a fixed floor price. What in fact happened then was that a flexible reserve price was introduced into the market. Is it any wonder that a man who purports to speak for the wool industry, who has such a superficial grasp of the facts should act as he did on Tuesday 27 May, in Kings Hall, as though his greatest aspiration in life was to become the spokesman for the Labor Caucus? He stood out in King's Hall with bated breath waiting for the decision to come from Caucus. He could hardly restrain his enthusiasm as he dashed across King's Hall, down the steps and out to the crowd to act as the messenger boy for the Labor Caucus. We have better messenger boys. But on that occasion nobody could have doubted his enthusiasm when he finally took on this job- apparently his great political aspirationthat of becoming a spokesman for the Labor Caucus. Much to his surprise, when he got out there, he discovered that he was beaten to the punch by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who apparently shares the same aspirations. To prove this, there was a photograph of them in the 'Australian' newspaper the next morning, very proudly acting in this role in the front of Parliament House. 
We have a very important issue before us, and I shall not canvass that point very strongly at the moment. It relates to the whole proposition of the reserve price for wool and in the Bills we are considering here today, we have a tax which in a way represents the premium that is being paid by woolgrowers for the insurance that they are getting from the reserve price. I believe that we have run into a fundamental problem in this discussion which has been overcome in Government thinking by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. Here we have an organisation which is geared to take care of risk. In the case of the reserve price, we run up against a fundamental block in Treasury thinking in Australia. I do not blame the Treasury. It has a traditional approach to these problems. It likes to see the books balanced at the end of each year- on 3 1 July. Of course when we are covering risks like fluctuations in wool prices, the forces involved in the market or in the environmental situation do not allow people to tidy up their books on 3 1 July. 
If we are to have a sensible insurance scheme to protect against fluctuating incomes in the wool market- in Australia there is a whole range of industries subject to these variations- clearly we cannot have our books cleaned up on 31 July. We cannot really go along with the normal Treasury approach to these issues. It is clear that particularly in Australia we need to develop new approaches to these problems of fluctuating incomes. I believe that the Industries Assistance Commission may be in a position to give us some advice on this matter because this problem of fluctuating farm income is one which has been referred to the LAC. I hope that in generalising the point that is made here, this problem of compensating for fluctuating farm income will not be restricted to the farming community. There are other sectors of our economy which are also subject to these problems. 
I believe that the Government, on a national basis, can perform a very useful function here because in many cases the risks involved command more capital than any private enterprise group can provide. This sort of risk can be taken only by a national organisation, backed, as is the case here in the wool corporation, by $380m- the sort of money that individual risk-taking organisations in the private enterprise field cannot muster. I think that if the recent debate about the fixed floor price in the wool market serves any useful purpose, it will have served its greatest purpose in directing the attention of the Government and the community at large to the restraint that exists in the normal approach to this problem by government- not just this Government, but by all the governments that preceded it. 
-The amendments to the Dairy Produce Export Control Act that we are now considering not only increase the powers available to the new Aus.tralian Dairy Corporation but also change its name. I believe it is worth while reviewing the situation in the dairy industry as a result of this Government's efforts. The Australian Dairy Produce Board has performed its task very well in the past, but it has been clear for some time now that the market in which it had to operate was changing and that it was necessary to produce a stronger trading organisation if the overseas interests of the dairy industry were to be protected. This Bill does just that. It increases the trading powers of the new Corporation and streamlines the nature of the personnel on the Corporation. The two new appointments, people with special knowledge, are clearly required in this sort of operation where we have to contend with world marketing. We have to determine where the best outlets will be for a product which is not, as in the past, a single product. The historic associations we had with Britain produced for the dairy industry a strong outlet for butter but now our outlets are multifaceted with powdered milk and a whole range of milk products which from time to time are in demand or out of demand. We have a unique and specialised marketing operation and it is necessary to acknowledge that the people who make the decisions ought to have a specialised knowledge. 
The Bill allows for 3 dairy farm members on the Corporation. There were three on the old Australian Dairy Produce Board but that Board consisted of 13 members. The new Corporation will consist of eleven, so the proportionate influence of dairy farmers on the new Corporation is that much stronger. I believe that the dairy farm interests will certainly be protected under the new proposal. We have not only protected them but also, as I have mentioned, introduced a new specialist influence in the decision making area. It is important to see this Corporation in the context of the activity that has taken place in the dairy industry while this Government has been in office. Twenty years of declining dairy farm numbers, major upheavals in the industry, a generally low level of capitalisation, resulted in an inheritance for this Government which was very difficult. We found the dairy industry in dire need of restructuring and the Australian Dairy Corporation is one facet of that restructuring process. 
The initiatives taken by this Government represent a significant change in the pattern of assistance to the dairy industry. Finance for adjustment has been directed far more precisely than was possible with the bounty on butter which was geared to production and did not necessarily- in fact, the history of the dairy industry demonstrates that it did not- lead to a major reorganisation in the dairy industry. The bounty did not direct the industry to the changes that were taking place in international markets. The Government's policy is that any expenditure to assist the industry ought to be carefully thought through. It ought to have a purpose and a clear objective. This program has been formulated after extensive consultation with the industry and the States and, in essence, consists of 3 elements. Firstly. there is a broadening of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme into a more comprehensive dairy adjustment scheme; secondly, interest-free loans will be provided to help suppliers change over to refrigerated bulk milk deliveries with concurrent assistance, as necessary, to factories, and thirdly, relocation assistance will be provided to assist displaced dairy farmers and dairy farm workers. Each of these elements is a clear acknowledgment of the trends taking place in the dairy industry. 
Clearly it is necessary to have a rationalisation of factories so that they are able to meet the multi-facet demand that the international market presents to dairy products in 1975. Overall, the program is estimated to cost $28m and therein lies the answer to the charge of the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  that this Government has not been conscious of its responsibilities to the dairy industry of Australia. The Government is prepared to consider the provision of further funds if they are necessary to make sure that the dairy industry is properly organised. Interim legislation brought down in July 1974 enabled a major part of the program at farm level to be initiated by amending the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Act. The whole program was consolidated in the Budget session into the Dairy Adjustment Act 1974. Since the agreements were signed, even in the initial stages, the farmer response has been extremely favourable to the overall parcel that the Government has presented to the dairy industry. This program will operate until 30 June 1976 when the Industries Assistance Commission will report on the type of Government assistance that ought to be provided to the dairy industry after that date. 
So the Bills to which we are now addressing ourselves form part of an overall pattern of events which have been designed to assist the dairy industry and bring it up to date, to give it the muscle to meet the international market and to provide increased efficiency in the production and manufacture of dairy products in Australia. In particular, I would like to mention that the Dairy Produce Bill extends the present borrowing powers to permit advances to be used to finance winter stocks in factories by allowing products subject to Corporation advances to be withdrawn from the local market. The necessity for factories to carry through stocks of cheese and other products has been a major problem in financing for the individual firms involved. I welcome this particular addition to the legislation. In addition the Corporation may borrow with the approval of the Treasurer from commercial lending institutions against secured assets. This will enable the Corporation to finance sales or stockholdings beyond the seasonal limit applied to the advances made by the Corporation from Reserve Bank funds. I believe these are necessary alterations to the powers of the new Corporation to provide an efficient financing operation for dairy factories. 
In my electorate we have seen a major consolidation of the dairy industry. . It has advanced from being a very small fragmented industry with individual producers each supplying unique and specialised factories. Although these factories are historical and charming and their produce has been unique and of an extremely high quality, by modern day standards they have not been very efficient. We have seen a change from small factories and small farm units to a consolidation both on the farm and in the factory resulting in a very efficient dairy industry which has city milk outlets as well as outlets for cheese production, butter production and dried milk products. 
I believe that the dairy industry is turning the corner. I do not share the pessimism of the honourable member for New England in regard to the dairy industry. There is no doubt that it has been through hard times, some of which have lasted from 20 to 25 years, but now we see a resurgence of interest in the products of the dairy industry, and more encouragingly, this interest is spread over products other than butter. We have seen too the flexibility of the dairy industry enhanced so that it is able to respond to changes in demand, so that it is able to move away from areas of over-supply and direct its milk into areas of low supply. One of the things I would like to see the Corporation develop is a more systematic approach to the question of production and supply so that it could give in more specific terms an indication to factories of which products will be in demand and in roughly what quantities in the forthcoming year. I believe that such guidance is absolutely essential if we are to see the maximum profitability introduced into the dairy industry. It is not good enough to allow individual factories that cannot command world market intelligence to make decisions in a vacuum. It is essential to provide an overall guide to factories in determining their production for the next year, in gearing themselves to meet the demand where the demand is most profitable for them as individual factories and for the dairy industry as a whole. 
To take the pessimistic approach that the honourable member for New England has taken is to encourage instability and uncertainty in the dairy industry. It is far better to encourage the dairy industry to concentrate on those areas of opportunity which are opening up for it and to move into those areas with some faith in the industry. The attitude of the honourable member for New England has directly the opposite effect, a tactic that is frequently adopted by his Party in Opposition. The National Country Party of Australia is concerned to create uncertainty, fear and an attitude of antagonism towards sensible reform, and I believe it does the industry no good at all to take such a pessimistic approach to its prospects. 
The dairy industry, by virtue of the policies adopted by this Government, has now reached the stage where it is on firm foundations. It is a flexible industry, and with the Corporation which is the subject of the Bill now under consideration it will become increasingly able to capitalise on the opportunities in the varying world markets with which it has to contend. I commend this Bill to the House. 
I address my question to the Minister for Services and Property. What are the qualifications necessary for a person to nominate as a candidate for election to the House of Representatives? 
-Some of the more fundamental issues arising from the Budget that affect the management of our society have been overlooked in Australia because the quality of political debate has been devalued by 2 traits that have become stock in trade for the Opposition and its supporters in business. The first is the use of emotive words that are so general in scope that they have no meaning. The second is the increasing tendency to be tricky at the expense of honesty. Opposition members are sycophants to words. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  for example, equated socialisation with nationalisation. There is a difference between the words. To say that Whitlam is a socialist is to confirm in the Opposition mind that he should not govern. To honourable members opposite the word 'socialist' removes the need for a sensible consideration of the basic proposition. To set up the credible proposition that Jesus was a socialist provokes mindless fury among Opposition members because a consideration of the issue brings them face to face with the contradiction between their professed morality and their everyday actions. 
This formula of using mindless words has been applied by Opposition supporters in business. A few months after the 1 974 election  Mr Valder,  the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange, threw away any claim he may have had for responsible business leadership with a speech on the threat of socialism. This political propaganda tract had the single objective of creating hostility towards and fear of the Government. I asked  Mr Valder  how he defined socialism. He wrote to me as follows: 
Dear  Mr Whan, 
Thank you for taking the trouble of sending me a telegram concerning that provocative speech of mine on socialism. 
I would be most interested to receive a definition from yourself or any of your colleagues on this question. I make this suggestion very seriously, as I believe some discussion of this subject might help to allay the fears of myself and others. 
He answered the question with a question. He has no definition of the subject of his speech. The man did not know what he was talking about. I doubt that he cared. No wonder Australian business leadership was depreciated in a review of 
Australia published by the London  Sunday Telegraph  on 19 January of this year and supported in a subsequent letter to the same newspaper. 
For my own part, the word 'socialism' means 'social conscience'. I am at a loss to understand why members of the Opposition should be so quick and so proud to reveal their complete insensitivity to human need. No pensioner, no sick person, no parent concerned for the education of his children obtained any comfort from the silence of the Opposition on these matters. It is clear from the reply of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Budget that the Opposition's concern does not lie in these areas. Let us consider the position of education under the Liberal-Country Party Government. In 1970 Australia spent 4.3 per cent of gross domestic product on education. Only seven of the 25 member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development spent less on education than Australia. 
We currently hear that public sector revenue in Australia is too high to encourage private enterprise. The fact is that in 1973 Australia took 28.2 per cent of gross domestic product into public revenue while sixteen other OECD countries took a larger proportion. The United States of America was one of them. The real problem lies in the fact that the Opposition is dependent for its support on a narrow, powerful and vocal base of vested interests whose horizon does not reach beyond their immediate needs. Economic development is the lifeblood for these vested interests and it must have precedence. They can satisfy their needs only by a callous disregard for the weaker sections of our community. In their minds there will never be a time for welfare. 
The consequences of the Opposition position go much deeper. In an essay in 1930 Lord Keynes identified the problem confronting the supporters of economic development for its own sake. He said: 
For at least another 100 years we must pretend to ourselves and to everyone that fair is foul and foul is fair; for foul is useful and fair is not. Avarice and usury must be our gods for a little longer still. 
I have quoted the text of the Opposition. Keynes was defining the economic objectives now being advocated by the Opposition, obtainable only by employing selfishness and greed, which religion and traditional wisdom universally call upon us to resist. The modern economy is self-destructive because it is propelled by a frenzy of greed and an orgy of envy. Where these vices are deliberately cultivated the inevitable result is a collapse of intelligence. 
This basic erosion of intelligent debate is being reinforced by a second characteristic of the Opposition approach. This is to fabricate a story and accuse the Government of the action as though the fabrication were fact. The Leader of the Opposition is a past master of this tactic. The most recent example was his comment on the cost of Medibank in relation to the Budget deficit. Again, the events associated with the replacement of  Mr Cope  as  Speaker  revolved around the proposition that the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  had been offered information by an officer on the staff of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. To this day the denial of the honourable member for Warringah involves a principle of honesty which has never been resolved. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was one of the few people to place that principle of honesty above the more dramatic events that diverted attention from the basic question of establishing the truth on that occasion. 
Recently the Prime Minister drew attention to 3 newspaper stories that were complete fabrication. Another example occurred recently on page  10 o( Newsweek of  14July 1975 which said: . . . Whitlam summoned Cairns to his office. In a 50- minute confrontation punctuated by shouting that could be heard clearly in the marble corridors outside the PM 's office, Cairns denied any misconduct - 
I would like to place on record that the question of misconduct by  Dr Cairns  was never raised by the Prime Minister or anyone else on that occasion. I have walked around this place in varying states of euphoria but I have never been able to reach that nirvana which produces marble corridors from the dull wooden passages of Parliament House. I am sure that this condition is completely absent amongst members on the Government side. It is probably spasmodic for members of the Opposition, but it is clearly a common experience for  Newsweek  journalists. 
A disregard for honest communication and the basic motivation of greed and envy required to propel the economic philosophy widely supported in Australia today has devalued political debate and economic analysis. Many people are starting to realise that there is a limit to the material possessions required by society. In Australia we have one telephone for every 3.5 people, one television set for every 4 people and one passenger car for every 3 people. How long can industry continue to push commodities into the community? Most of the pressures on government today have their origin in the desire of people to maintain their standard of living, but on close analysis this turns out to be based on ever rising expectations of basic needs rather then any real threat of a reduction in possessions. Problems confronted by fishermen and potato growers in Australia today are not due to a lack of efficiency on their part but rather to a preference by consumers for expensive processed food. It is hard to accept the proposition that money is short when consumers pay up to five times more for the convenience of the processed product over the cheaper fresh product. The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  would know the truth of that statement. 
An increasing number of people are realising that communities cannot go on cramming material goods into homes or cars on to roads. They are waking up to the waste and futility of planned obsolescence simply to keep industry expanding. Many people are questioning a system whereby they spend half their lives trying to find something to do with the time that they rush through life trying to save. I am convinced that the Government is more sensitive to these basic trends in our society than is the Opposition. The Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  is clearly the product of a Minister in tune with his department and the needs of Australia. It is a masterpiece of technical skill resulting in a balance between the conflicting objectives needed to guide a sensitive economy responsive to the human as well as the economic needs of the community. This Budget meets the need to stimulate the private sector and at the same time to consolidate the real progress made in meeting the long term ideals of our society. 
In condemning the Budget the Leader of the Opposition quoted selectively from the OECD survey and the economic review in Budget Statement No. 2. Both reviews identify a world wide recession as the basic cause of the economic problems in Australia. Both go on to say that internal wage and price pressures have subsequently played the dominant role. This analysis has been accepted by the Treasurer, contrary to what the Leader of the Opposition said. I draw the attention of the House to another section of the OECD report. It states: 
As the powers of the Australian Government to control wages and prices are strictly limited constitutionally the reduction of inflation depends largely on public acceptance of the need for price and wage restraint. At the present time however it is uncertain that a national consensus will be forthcoming. 
The Opposition in this place will have to share a major portion of the blame if such a consensus cannot be obtained. Honourable members opposite opposed the transfer of the appropriate powers to the national Government. They encourage their State colleagues to obstruct every effort the Government has made to reach a consensus with the States on these matters. 
The Treasurer, during his speech, called for restraint throughout the entire community to beat inflation. The Opposition, led by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  responded with derisive catcalls. Members of the Opposition have a vested interest in a divided community. Bankrupt of policies, they have to resort to petty disruption to gain support. The National Country Party has become a major liability for the rural sector of Australia. It plucks at old policies to foment opposition to the Government. Many of these policies have no relevance to the problems of today. What possible use is a superphosphate subsidy to a farmer who cannot afford to buy superphosphate? Surely it is more important to ensure that fluctuations in farm incomes are smoothed out, that a basic income is established to ensure stability of farm planning, and that credit facilities are established to meet the unique requirements of agriculture. This Government has accepted what the Opposition in government rejected- a floor price for wool to provide a basic income for wool growers. This Government is now looking closely at the whole problem of fluctuating incomes for other sectors. 
In considering the factors relevant in solving the fundamental problems in the rural sector the Government has sought the advice of the Industries Assistance Commission. We have received 3 excellent reports. They cover the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis, fluctuations in rural incomes and new land farms. This last report gave strong support to the Government's present policy in regard to farm reconstruction and farm finance. The fourth report, on superphosphate, is worth a brief comment. The Government looks to the LAC for objective, professional appraisals of the problems referred to the Commission. In my view the majority recommendations in the superphosphate report are a disgrace to the profession of agricultural economics. Can any sensible person accept the main reason provided as grounds for restoring the bounty? I quote the reason given: 
The Commission proposes restoration in the belief that, on balance it would be reasonable to give using industries the benefit of the doubt pending completion of its inquiry and government consideration of its full report. It does this notwithstanding its view that, at this stage of the inquiry, the weight of argument suggests that the various proposed objectives of such assistance could be achieved at lower cost through more direct measures. 
I emphasise that I have quoted from the report itself. The report gives the benefit of the doubt to the industry although it believes that the bounty is not the way in which the best assistance can be given to industry. Can this be taken as a serious attempt to provide government with impartial, professional advice? This report is also in direct conflict with the new land farm report from the IAC which placed such emphasis on the need for specialised credit and farm reconstruction programs- fundamental issues for the whole agricultural sector. I was disappointed that the report dismissed without any real analysis the proposition that a bounty be paid on a limited tonnage per farm and that it ignored the crisis now existing for aerial agriculture. The current approach of the IAC appears to be based on the single Will Rogers' proposition that the tariff is a weapon invented for the benefit of those who make as against those who buy. 
I accept that the IAC, in its report of 1973-74 spelt out the need for suitable relocation and retraining programs if major restructuring of industry is to take place. The fact is that these programs do not exist. The provision of these programs requires an extensive study of resource reallocation and a sensitive approach to the relocation of labour- issues which I feel should be the central concern of government today. Until we have these programs the Government must be very careful in the commitment it makes to the IAC recommendations, which are fundamentally economic and not social in approach. Nobody needs to apologise for this situation, because it is simply an acceptance of the limitations inherent in the present system. Most of the vocal opposition to the IAC is, in my view, misdirected because it is based on the indefensible premise that industry should stay as it is- the status quo frozen, with subsidies and tariffs. This is the reason why we have the absurd contradiction of an Opposition and business lobby calling itself free enterprise, condemning this Government because it has removed some of the props that insulate the economy from competition. The unpalatable fact for the doyens of free enterprise in Australia is that the Labor Party in government has turned out to be committed to a competitive market place. Industry is now screaming to come in out of the cold; it wants the warmth of government protection. The old economic debate has returned, but now the protectionists sit in the Liberal Party. The narrow, short-sighted, selfish approach of the Opposition in its effort to maintain the status quo for its business partners has diverted attention from the inevitability of the changes taking place. These changes have been completely established in the IAC report of 1973-74. 
Can the Prime Minister explain if and how the Public Service Act could be suspended for a week to enable the dismissal of permanent Public Service employees? 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Last April approval was given by the Australian Government for the establishment of community health centres at Eden, Ulladulla and Sussex Inlet. I have recently been approached by local residents complaining that the New South Wales Government has said that money is no longer available for these projects. Is the Minister aware of similar problems elsewhere in New South Wales and can he give the House an explanation for this apparent change of policy? 
-In 1973-74, an amount of $2,000 was appropriated to the Department of the Capital Territory for the South East Region Symposium. This Symposium was approved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at my request and was extremely well organised by the Department of the Capital Territory. The purpose of that Symposium was to provide a forum for the people of the south east region to define the problems which arose because of the proximity of the Australian Capital Territory. The Symposium was directed at formulating the manner in which the integration of the Australian Capital Territory and the surrounding region should take place. 
These were balmy days. At the time, the problems seemed difficult. There seemed to be resistance from the New South Wales Government to the Australian Government in regard to the coordinated development of the 2 areas. Well, by comparison, they were in fact a paradise. When Premier Lewis took over in New South Wales he reneged on most of the agreements that had already been arrived at by Premier Askin. We are now back to the position where there is absolutely no co-ordination at all between the New South Wales State Government and the Australian Government. This is simply because Premier Lewis reneged on agreements which had been made after 4 years of very patient negotiations on the problems that confront the 2 Governments with respect to the integration of this development. 
This issue is a serious one for my electorate as not only does it affect the constituents of EdenMonaro physically but also we find that comparisons between the Australian Capital Territory and the State of New South Wales as represented by cities and towns in my electorate show that what occurs certainly is very strongly weighted in favour of the administration and direction which takes place in the A.C.T. Let me cite, for example, some of the issues that have been raised by Opposition members this evening in this debate. We heard complaints that people in the A.C.T. have to wait 1 1 months for the purchase of a new home or for a loan; I am not sure which. In any event, the claim makes no sense. The facts are that the waiting period for a loan in the A.C.T. for a home is 6 weeks. The waiting period for a 3-bedroom house is 28 months. The waiting period for a 4-bedroom house is 26 months. The waiting period for a 2-bedroom flat is 5% months; for a bed-sitter it is 6 months. 
In Queanbeyan, which is directly over the border from the Australian Capital Territory and administered by the New South Wales Government, a person is lucky to get a house in  Vh  years and it is impossible to rent a 2-bedroom flat at prices which are anywhere within the reach of incomes of young couples who are seeking to buy in that market. The comparison, to say the least, is odious. This is the situation after a year in which the Australian Government gave to the New South Wales Government every dollar for the construction of government housing that the New South Wales Minister for Housing sought. 
On the issue that the Opposition has chosen to raise here this evening, we can go in to bat quite confident that the administration of the Australian Capital Territory shows up the lack of responsibility of the administration in New South Wales, especially towards the constituents of my electorate. We find that the development of many of the projects which were initiated in New South Wales, I might mention, under the previous Premier are on-going undertakings. In the report prepared by the Department of the Capital Territory as a companion to this debate, we find evidence of this fact. For example, the Lands Division of the Department of the Capital Territory has many responsibilities which have a bearing on my electorate. The evaluation of policy strategies relating to the future growth of the Australian Capital Territory obviously has a very direct and intimate relationship with the electorate of Eden-Monaro. In my view, it is very important that we see this whole complex as a part of the region and that we see the need for integration in the development of the A.C.T. and each city and town in the electorate of EdenMonaro; otherwise that development will be against the interests of the people in both areas. Washington D.C. stands as a monument to what could happen to the surrounds of the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure that nobody who has any passing familiarity with the situation there would like to see what has occured in and around Washington D.C. happen in this region. 
Again, the Lands Division of the Department of the Capital Territory has the responsibility for liaison with the South East Region Advisory Council in New South Wales. This activity is extremely important. These days it does not seem to lead to very much action. But we look forward to the time when in New South Wales we will be able to reach a more rational basis of cooperation between that State and the Australian Capital Territory. In this report prepared by the Department, we read in the section dealing with the Land Management Branch that that Branch has the responsibility of looking after the rural road network in the A.C.T. A point is made in this report which I will read to the Committee because it can be extrapolated directly to my area. The report states: 
The rural road network in the A.C.T. is subject to special pressures caused by a high volume of individual and recreational traffic. 
There is no question that that is true of the Aus.tralian Capital Territory; there is no question that it is true of the electorate of Eden-Monaro. These special pressures create, I believe, a special case for consideration to be given to the shires and city councils in my electorate in respect of the demands made on their roads by traffic from the A.C.T. 
We find further that the Land Management Branch has the responsibility in conjunction with New South Wales in relation to the development of the Googong Dam and 'the prevention of pollution from the Captain's Flat mine dumps'. That is a most interesting phenomenon as I understand that the first letter on this threat was written in 1928 and the first action on it took place under the present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  and the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Action of that type is needed quite urgently in many other areas throughout my electorate. The Googong Dam is another project which is related to the Department of the Capital Territory. It involves the expenditure of $30m in my electorate. 
The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  made a very important point, that is, that zero growth in the Public Service Will have a very direct impact on the economic environment of the A.C.T. It Will certainly have a direct impact on the economic environment of Queanbeyan where nearly 750 public servants are now employed in the Australian Government Public Service. They also live in Queanbeyan. Queanbeayn is very much a Public Service town. I welcome with great relish the statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that part of the pokey outlook of the Opposition is zero Public Service growth.There is no question at all that this Will have a very strong political impact in Queanbeyan which is the fastest growing city in New South Wales. 
We have heard also from the Opposition this evening that its members believe they have the support of the Public Service. How can they believe that after the attitude that the Opposition adopted towards the legislation on the new superannuation scheme for public servants? Only a cursory examination of the mail which has come into my office since the Opposition opposed that Bill demonstrates the futility of that belief. The dream by the Opposition in that respect is similar to its dreams that it will be in government in the future. 
Another aspect in relation to the Public Service is the belief often cultivated by the Opposition that the Public Service belongs to the non-productive section of the community. The Opposition makes this tight distinction between the public sector and the private sector as though those in the private sector were the only ones who produced goods. Again, the honourable member for Fraser has given us an extremely good example of the fallacy in that assertion. Those 620 people employed in the Forests Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory are definitely involved in the productive sector. That industry producing pine logs is a very strong and viable one. It is very much a commercial industry which supplies timber mills in my electorate. One could mention many examples of the involvement of members of the Public Service in the productive sector. There are many issues in the area administered by the Department of the Capital Territory which I could enumerate as having a direct impact in EdenMonaro. I believe that the examples that I have given here this evening are enough to illustrate the intimate relationship that exists between my electorate and this city of Canberra. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  Before I call the honourable member for Gwydir, I point out that earlier this evening the  Chairman  of Committees spoke to a member of this committee for crossing between the member speaking and the Chair, thus failing to observe a Standing Order that, unfortunately, is not observed by many people in this chamber. The 2 Standing Orders involved are part of the courtesies of this chamber. I will not mention the member by name but I sincerely hope that the remarks of the  Chairman  of Committees previously and my remarks now may remind members of this Committee of those courtesies for which provision is made in the Standing Orders. Mention was made earlier of observance of the Standing Orders relating to showing respect to the  Speaker.  We might be able to raise the standard of both this Committee and of the 
House if members observed those Standing Orders. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many DC3 aircraft are operated by the RAAF. 
How old are these DC3 aircraft 
Where are these DC3 aircraft located, and what are they used for. 
Are there any plans to replace these DC3 aircraft. 
If so, when will they be replaced, and what type of replacement aircraft will be selected. 
-The Estimates this year demonstrate a real and genuine concern that the Government has for the fundamental problems of the agricultural sector. The deficit of $2 10m compared with the previous year is represented largely by the wool reserve price scheme, a scheme introduced by this Government and a scheme which when the Opposition Parties were in government they refused to introduce. Any wool grower who understands this mechanism would be only too pleased to see the Australian Wool Corporation in the position where it could pay money back into Consolidated Revenue. Knowing the mechanism the wool grower would realise that the market price at that stage would be well above the reserve price. The criticism of the present Budget in that the allocation this year is below the allocation last year is too sweeping in its embrace. The fact is that the wool reserve price scheme is working. It is a mark of confidence that this Government has introduced this mechanism which the previous Government was not prepared to introduce. 
In this Budget there is an acknowledgment of a very important principle, and that is the commitment of the Government to the wool reserve price of 250c a kilo clean for 2 1 micron wool is open-ended and would be one of the very few open-ended commitments in a Budget of this Government or any other government. In other words, there is a watertight guarantee for that price in the market. This is a unique phenomenon which has been recognised by wool growers right throughout the country. I turn now to the beef industry. Let us take in objective fashion exactly what the issues have been. First, markets overseas in Japan, the European Economic Community and America closed down for political reasons. They closed down to protect the country parties of those countries and to protect, in the case of Japan particularly, inefficient producers of beef. A political pressure, which is not unknown in this country, was used against our producers on that occasion. Japan was taken by this Government to every international forum that was available. The appropriate complaints were made and the appropriate actions were taken. Not one stone was left unturned in the international forums of the world to bring Japan to account on that issue. Then, as the seriousness of the market situation started to affect the beef industry, it was recognised by this Government, at the request of the beef industry, that special loan assistance was necessary. At the request of the beef industry, that loan assistance was given at bank interest rates. This Budget contains an allocation of $8m for that purpose - 
As the interjector says, they may not be able to afford it. But, in fact, that is the fund the beef producers are drawing on. The next action taken by this Government, in conjunction with the States, was to provide low interest rate loans to beef producers who needed carry-on finance at that rate of interest. The scheme was administered by the Rural Reconstruction Board. That is the fund that is in surplus. That is the one that has surplus cash. In this Budget, an amount of $ 1 9.6m has been allocated to this fund. It is the other fund, the one which makes available loans at bank interest rates, which have been drawn on most heavily. 
I turn to the next situation with which we are confronted. It is the welfare problem. There can be no question that a welfare problem exists in the beef industry. It is a matter that is receiving the active consideration of this Government. There has been a three-fold response to the problems of the beef industry: Firstly, at the international level; secondly, in the provision of funds at bank interest rates; thirdly, the provision of carry-on finance at low interest rates through the Rural Reconstruction Board. Certainly, when the Opposition was in Government it never faced up to the problem of rural poverty and rural welfare payments in this situation. We have to pioneer a completely new policy in this area. The Henderson reports are making their contribution in that respect. There can be absolutely no doubt that any policy that is developed in that area, and it will be, will be completely new. It has no precedent in the political experience of this country, especially in the 23 years of the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
I turn now to another aspect of the beef industry which has been the subject of criticism. Some people say that we are making no contribution to brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication. At least the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  had the propriety to acknowledge that we are making a contribution. Let us consider what sort of contribution we are making. In 1971-72, the last full year of the Opposition's reign in Government, $2,400m was appropriated for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. This year's Budget allocates $8,200m- a 400 per cent increase in the time that this Government has been on the treasury bench. Yet the Opposition is telling us it is not enough. How much more does it want? How much more is this than it contributed when it was in Government? We are spending 400 per cent more than its con.tibution to this very important program for the beef industry. 
As we look at this whole spectrum of assistance to agriculture, we can see that underlying the whole of the allocations in this Budget is a philosophy which is directed at the fundamental issues affecting agriculture. They are not allocations which are responding to political whims and changes in the political climate. They are certainly not allocations that respond to what the members of National Country Party of Australia think are important political considerations for the agriculture sector. All the time that they were in office, they refused the adoption of the reserve price plan as a long term device to ensure wool producers a minimum income. They did nothing at all about rural poverty or welfare payments to the rural sector when the situation became crucial. These are the issues. They did relatively little about variable incomes in the agricultural sector, the fundamental issues with which agriculture has to live. It is no good if a political crisis has to be generated every time there is need in the agricultural sector. The mechanism must be built in so that it responds automatically to the needs of agriculture. 
We find this approach in the Budget in regard to the reserve price for wool, the wheat stabilisation plan and the considerations of rural poverty, not only- I emphasise this- so far as these estimates are concerned, but also recognising the fact that rural poverty is shared by all sectors in the rural areas, not just the farmers. Also, we find in these estimates the dairy adjustment program. Let us put things in perspective. This Government has supposedly rejected the dairy industry. But it is peculiar to hear this when in this Budget we have an allocation of $ 19.5m to be spent on dairy farm adjustment in 1975-76. Last year, an amount of $9m was spent for this purpose. In 1971-72 when the Liberal and National Country parties were in Government $7.6m was spent. This year we are spending more than twice what the Liberal-National Country Party Government allocated for dairy adjustment in its last year in office. In 1970-71- the previous year- that Government allocated only $3.1m for this purpose. We find this criticism of this Government's contribution to dairy farm adjustment is very shallow indeed when we look at the estimates and see nearly $ 19.2m being allocated for dairy farm adjustment in 1975-76. Is this showing no interest? Is this making no contribution? What it represents, in fact, is an indictment of the Opposition for either ignoring all the facts of life in respect to agriculture or its sheer desire to obtain office at any cost, mutilating the facts as it proceeds on that devastating course. 
-We are considering this year estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade in the light of an ever increasing Australian export situation. Exports for 1974-75 are up to $8,709m, a rise of 26 per cent on the previous year. The proceeds from the export of rural goods are up by 14 per cent. This is a factor that is quite often overlooked when the political attention tends to be concentrated on those industries that are going through a hard time. On the other hand, the exports of non-rural goods, particularly minerals, have risen by 40 per cent. We are witnessing the continuation of a very significant change in Australia's export pattern. It is true, as the previous  speaker,  the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  mentioned, that inflation has played a very important role in Australia's competitive position overseas. We are not helped in understanding the solution of this problem by concentrating, as the Opposition has done, on the idea that inflation is a unique factor in the Australian scene. Let me quote one or two of the comments that were made by leaders at the recent International Monetary Fund conference. Dennis Healey, the United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer, said: 
We meet again this year in the grip of a world recession, which has no precedent in scale or in duration since the 1930s. 
Later in his speech he said: 
Perhaps the main lesson to be learnt from the experience of the last 2 years is that the national economies of the modern world are closely interdependent. 
The Minister of Finance of the Federal Republic of Germany said: 
The year behind us is now the second year in a row in which the world economy has undergone dramatic changes. In this brief span of time the world has moved from the worst inflation to the worst recession in the postwar period. 
The Minister of Finance for India said: 
The world economy still continues to be under severe strain. 

 His comments developed along the same theme. The  Chairman  of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund said: 
The problems of recession, inflation and external adjustment and financing are world-wide in scope and it is necessary to view them in an international context in order to find effective solutions. 
The Minister of Economy and Finance for France had this to say: 
Today, we are compelled to admit, the economic and monetary disorder in the world has only worsened. Inflation is still with us, and yet the recession has grown in extent . . . Therefore, a new international economic order must be designed and implemented. 
One could go on and quote many of the world's economic leaders who have recognised that the world at large is suffering from serious phenomena in our economic experience. It is no consolation to them to hear the Opposition concentrating on these phenomena as though they were unique to Australia. It certainly does not do the people of Australia a service to concentrate political debate as though Australia and Australia alone is suffering from inflation, recession and unemployment. In fact to concentrate in this manner simply underlines the parochial nature and lack of realism of the Opposition's approach to the economic problems that confront this country. 
We also find this lack of realism developing in terms of the Opposition's argument against the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. The Corporation was initiated by this Government in order primarily to deal with centrally planned economies and to provide a world marketing base for small businessmen in Australia. In dealing with the setting up of this Corporation the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  made no mention whatsoever to what is becoming a major development in world trade. I refer to barter trade. Recently the United States bartered wheat for oil with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I wonder how the wheat growers of Australia feel about that particular development. The Leader of the National Country Party claimed that the Australian Wheat Board was capable of carrying out this trade on its own. The Wheat Board cannot barter oil for wheat. It is in no position to carry out that side of the barter trade. A similar position applies with respect to the Australian Wool Corporation, the Australian Dairy Corporation and the Australian Meat Board. Barter trade, government to government, is becoming quite a central theme in world trade. For this reason the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation would have been in a strong position to make sure that our traditional trading partners and our traditional trading links were preserved. 
The Corporation would have provided a base for small business operations, which constitutes 93 per cent of the manufacturing establishments in Australia- that is 93 per cent which have fewer than 100 employees- actually to trade on the world market in a sensible, constructive way. All the trading incentives in the world will be of no avail if the scale of the manufacturing operation prevents a particular firm from actually seeking out markets overseas. Working through the Corporation, particularly in relation to barter deals, small business would have a part of the cake. As things stand now small business is out on its own in the cold. The Opposition promised small business some form of export incentive. This was not successful in the past and certainly is not successful for a firm which cannot go overseas and develop its links. It holds no promise for those firms in the future. 
We hear a great deal of critisism of this Government's activities in relation to the beef market. It is interesting to remind the House that the Premier of Queensland at one stage threatened the Japanese. He said that their coal imports from Australia would be cut off if they did not import beef, in a sort of inverse barter deal. The Premier of Queensland apparently was not averse to this particular threat. We hear comments from the Opposition about the unreliability of Australia as a beef trading nation. If there is any substance at all to that comment it is due to the maverick statements made by people like the Premier of Queensland in relation to the coal and beef export from that State. 
The record of this Government in regard to beef negotiations overseas stands unequalled. An answer by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  to question No. 1288 covers 3 columns in  Hansard  and gives a detailed blow by blow account of the many negotiations which are undertaken by the Department of Overseas Trade to protect Australia's beef markets in the European Economic Community, Japan and America in particular. On every occasion the Australian Government not only took the initiative to protect those markets but also took the initiative to create new international negotiating forums in which our beef markets may be protected. There can be no question that we have been badly served by the Japanese and EEC markets insofar as their commitment to international agreements is concerned. There can be no question that this Government has represented the interests of the beef producers and the nation very vigorously and very forcefully in every forum that was open to it. There can also be no question that the political motivation which has led to the reduction of our exports to the EEC and Japan has no market basis in fact. 
It is quite dishonest for people to go around this country claiming that the price of Australian beef has in any way a realtionship to our capacity to sell to markets overseas. The decisions made were political. In fact, if we were to export beef that was too cheap to the EEC or to Japan that in itself would be a disincentive to importers. Their governments would insist that the price be raised in order that the beef could be sold within the domestic market situations that have been artificially created in those countries. For that reason I believe that comments about the export tax are quite without foundation. 
I am corrected quite rightly by the honourable member for Macarthur. It is an export levy. These prices would not in any way influence the amount of beef that we could sell to these 3 markets. It is a political matter on which the record of the Department of Overseas Trade is unmatched. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I was impressed by the spate of reports that have been corning from the Press on the plight of small business in Australia to the point that I thought I would do a little research on the matter to find out just how serious the situation was. The first thing I noticed was that most of the statements that have been given such prominence in recent days in the Press are largely based on a survey that was conducted 3 years ago. The results of that survey have suddenly leapt into prominence, presumably because it serves the political convenience of the Opposition and the people who organise the Press stories. I carried this investigation a little further on the assumption that if things were as grim for small businesses as they are portrayed in the Press today, we would be seeing the result of this in the form of bankruptcies. 
I discovered that, as at June 1975, for the year 1974-75 there had been 2052 reported bankruptcies in Australia. In the year before there had been 1964 bankruptcies. In 1972-73 there had been 2660 bankruptcies. Then we discover that in 1971-72, the last year of the Liberal-National Country Party Government, there were 3036 bankruptcies. That is, there were nearly 1000 more bankruptcies in the last year of a Liberal-National Country Party Government than there were in the financial year just completed. We find also that most of the observations that are being made about the plight of small businesses are based on that particular year- the last year that the Liberal and National Country parties were in office. I found that in 1970- 71 there were 2783 bankruptcies, in 1969-70 there were 2542 bankruptcies, and in 1968-69 there were 2550 bankruptcies. In other words, the average number of bankruptcies during the 3 years preceding Labor taking office in Canberra was considerably higher than the average number of bankruptcies during the 3 years Labor has been in office. 
This discovery was quite revealing so I carried my research a little further. I discovered that the main reason given for bankruptcies was a lack of business ability. In 1973-74, 304 of the bankruptcies occurred because of a lack of business ability. In 1972-73, 420 such bankruptcies occurred. Economic conditions rate third on the list of causes for bankruptcy. Lack of sufficient working capital was the next main reason for companies going bankrupt. Economic conditions, including the competitive market place, accounted in 1973-74 for 176 bankruptcies. In the prime year for bankruptcies, 1971-72- the last year of the Liberal-National Country Party Government when there were 3036 bankruptcies or nearly 1000 more than under the Labor Government in the year 1974-75-378 bankruptcies were associated with the building industry. That is significant. This is the industry that is being emphasised in the Press by people like  Mr Henderson,  the Director of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia.  Mr Henderson  estimated that at least 1500 small businesses had closed their doors in the 12 months to 30 June 1975. That is not a surprising figure when we realise that the average number of bankruptcies in Australia is 2000 per annum.  Mr Henderson  did not go on to make the comparison between that year and previous years. It is of no good honourable members opposite trying to interject. The facts are there. The fact is that in 1974-75 there were 2000 bankruptcies. In 1971- 72 under the Liberal-National Country Party Government there were 3036 bankruptcies. Now we discover how healthy the business sector has been under the 2 governments. Now we discover that all this screaming in the Press is largely based on a survey conducted from the New England University by Professor Meredith 3 years ago. 
What exactly is the situation? There can be no question that small business enterprises that operate on fixed price contracts have gone through a very severe period. They, like all other businesses, are affected by inflation. Just by way of comparison to emphasise the point I made last night that this inflationary factor is affecting the entire world, it is worth making an observation in regard to Japan with all the expertise it can turn on to give advice to small business operators. Japan trains some 1000 small business advisers each year. It has a definite government policy of helping small businesses with funds and skill, as this Government has done but the previous government did not. It was this Government which established the Small Business Bureau in Australia, not the previous Government. But in spite of the fact that that sort of service is offered in Japan as at August 1975, there were a record number of 977 bankruptcies recorded in Japan. This happened in spite of the fact that that country gives such generous assistance to its business operators. 
I ask honourable members to compare that with the bankruptcies registered this year in Australia. I repeat that there were 2000 bankruptcies under this Government compared with 3036 under the Liberal-National Country Party in 1971-72. This is the comparison; this is the fact. It is time that the business community started to look at the fact and that the Hendersons of this country realised that they have a responsibility in leading the business fraternity. They have a responsibility to state the position as it is. They are compromising their leadership by acting as political bandits. They are using their positions of leadership as spokesmen for the Opposition. If they choose to do that, they should nail their colours to the mast. Let us again emphasis the position for  Mr Henderson.  There were 2000 bankruptcies to June of this year and 3036 bankruptcies in the last year of government of the Opposition parties for which he chooses to compromise his leadership position. 
In Australia the situation is difficult for small business just as it is difficult for small businesses the world over. As we go back into the effects of inflation we find that inflation is affecting rents. What State in this country has been able to control rent? South Australia is one State which has taken the opportunity to capitalise on its cooperation with Canberra. Those States which have not co-operated with Canberra are the States where rents are running riot. They are the States which have refused the type of assistance which has made it possible for South Australia to keep rents in hand. Rents are one of the main bugbears for small business operators. Many of them have a very low labour force. Many of them are single entrepreneur businesses and have no real labour charges over and above the living costs of the family. So we find that for the small business operator who cannot pass on the effects of inflation, rents and inflation are two of the main reasons why they are having difficulty over and above the normal problems associated with small businesses, namely, lack of business ability and a lack of sufficient working capital. 
It was to assist small business that the Government has established a national Small Business Bureau counselling service.  (Quorum formed.)  I emphasise again that in the last financial year there were 2000 bankruptcies under this Government and 3036 in the last year of the LiberalCountry Party Government. The business world should listen and look. The business world should check its facts. There were 1000 more bankruptcies under the Liberal-Country Party Government than there were in the last financial year of this Government. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. How many bankruptcies were reported by the Registry of Bankruptcies during the financial year just completed? How does this figure compare with previous years? What were the main causes of bankruptcy during 1974-75? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I bring up the Committee's report on proposals for the variation of the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925, the 59 (A) series of variations. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  highlighted in his speech the contradiction that exists in the Opposition's approach to the problems which the Department of Urban and Regional Development was designed to resolve. He complained about the wide scope of the Department and in the final stage of his speech he complained about the lack of planning at local government level. I agree with him about the lack of planning at local government level but the wide scope of the Department, one of the most successful creations of the Labor Government, is involved in this planning enterprise. It is a question of allocating resources in the most efficient way for the people of the communities in this country. If we are to do that then clearly we are dealing with a wide-ranging area involving transport, housing, the environment, a sensitivity towards our heritage, and so on. I could produce a long list of resources which need to be seen as a whole and allocated as a whole if we are to optimise the satisfaction of the communities which all form part of our country. If the Department of Urban and Regional Development is to involve itself in resources allocation, clearly it must have a wide ranging view of the entire social scene. I believe that this Department not only does that but it is based on a foundation which is solid and secure, the foundation fundamentally being that the people of those communities should make their own decisions. 
It is interesting to note that for all that the Liberal and National Country Parties say about centralisation and how opposed they are to it in their much trumpeted policy on their attitude to State and local governments, they will give State governments the opportunity to exercise .discretion in revenue raising but absolutely no discretion to local government. It was this Government that for the first time gave local government independence in revenue raising opportunities and decision making. We look in vain in the Liberal Party policy for the same sense of independence being given to local government. 
I want to quote from page 14 of the report of the Department of Urban and Regional Development for 1973-74, its second annual report. It states: 
Regions should also provide a means of decentralising decision-making, of increasing the access of community groups and interested citizens to decision-making, and of providing useful information gathering and disseminating units. . . . 
Regionalism is not to be confused with centralism. If the regional headquarters of Federal and State agencies can be located in a common centre for each region, the activity thus generated could provide a boost to urban opportunities and improve conditions, both directly and through its stimulus to the  private  sector. It would consequently have a decentralising rather than a centralising effect. 
Everything that the Department of Urban and Regional Development has done in respect of regions has had that simple effect- decentralisation rather than centralisation. In my electorate of Eden-Monaro, which embraces very diverse community groups, I have found that the activities of the Department have been extremely welcome to the communities. In particular, the area improvement plan which is operating in the south-east region of New South Wales has been a great stimulus for local government and the communities in my electorate. One of the great difficulties that any member for an electorate such as mine confronts is the idea, often expressed by small communities, that their objective is to become a self-contained economy. That is an unrealisable objective. It is impossible for us to diversify a population of 50 people to the point where they can become a selfcontained economy. Obviously their future rests in identifying the role they can play in the total region of which they are a part. 
The area improvement plan has gone a long way to helping the local government authorities in my region to identify themselves as part of the region, as part of an exciting region. It is a region which, after many years of neglect and after many years during which local government has been deprived of resources, has not been able to maximise the opportunities that nature has bestowed on it. I want to quote one or two examples. Queanbeyan, one of the fastest-growing cities in Australia, has been deprived of all sorts of community facilities. It has been deprived of the normal beautification aspects of a city which grow with a city that has a much slower rate of development. Under the area improvement plan it has been possible to provide Queanbeyan with a youth facility. That city of 22 000 people has had no youth facility. The area improvement plan, in conjunction with the Young Men's Christian Association, has made a major contribution to the youth of Queanbeyan. 
I could refer to flood mitigation which is a major issue throughout a region like the southeast region of New South Wales of which EdenMonaro forms a major part. I could refer to the libraries which have introduced major innovations. The introduction of cassette tapes has transformed the attitude of children towards libraries. The public library, as we knew it too often in small country towns, was in a small obscure corner and was a dusty, dirty institution which showed more signs of neglect than intellectual endeavour. Under the area improvement plan it has been possible to place libraries in the middle of the main streets and to provide them with new books and with new cassette tapes. They have been transformed into exciting places for the children, the youth and the parents in these towns to visit. They are becoming community centres and places where people can exchange ideas. 
I could refer to town improvement, drainage, tree planting and so on. I could list relatively small expenditures so far as the totality of expenditure is concerned but they are expenditures on community facilities recognised as being necessary not by this Government, not by the State Government, but by the people of the towns and communities concerned. This Government has acknowledged that the need exists and for the first time those people have been able to use resources to satisfy those needs. 
For my own part the area improvement plan has been an outstanding success in the electorate of Eden-Monaro. Its flexibility has enabled it to meet real community needs. In fact it typifies the spirit which pervades the entire Department. The idea has been that the communities should be consulted and that resources allocation should be geared towards the needs that the communities identify. I defy anybody to go into my electorate and find an answer contrary to the one I have sketched for honourable members. As the Federal member for the area I have deliberately kept away from the decision making process, believing that the spirit of the whole operation was that local community groups ought to make their own decisions. I was there to facilitate their decisions, the people having established their priorities. I believe that is the spirit in which the area improvement plan has been initiated. It certainly is the spirit I have adopted in my electorate. 
I want to refer to another very exciting area covered by the Department of Urban and Regional Development- the concept of the national estate. Already in my electorate, a small part of the geography of Australia, we see the effect of the national estate on towns like Tilba Tilba. In that community I have 2 very illustrious members of my electorate, people whom honourable members of this House would remember. They are  Mr Jeff  Bate and Dame Zara Bate. They are very important citizens in the town of Tilba Tilba. The national estate has recognised the unique value of Tilba Tilba and its illustrious residents and we have enshrined them forever in history. We also have in that electorate houses and buildings of major historical interest which have been endowed by the national estate. 
Indeed, through this Minister and his imagination and the support he receives from his Department, a department fashioned by him and the Labor Government, a department which has captured the imagination of the people in my electorate and, I am sure, right throughout this nation with such activities as the area improvement plan, the preservation of the National Estate, the sewerage programs- one could list them all. Indeed, it has made a major effort in resource allocation to optimise satisfaction for the communities of this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has the Postal Commission been conducting discussions with the Fokker Aircraft Company on the feasibility of establishing an aerial postal service in New South Wales, similar to that operating in France. 
Would such a service be suitable to replace the present travelling post offices which currently serve many country areas in New South Wales. 
If so, what likelihood is there that an aerial postal service will be introduced. 
-The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has covered, as usual, many of the areas of fallacy that the National Country Party of Australia has created in regard to the wool industry. The first thing that needs to be noted about bis reference to instability in the wool market is that, when in office, his Government refused resolutely to initiate a fixed reserve price in the market place. On numerous occasions instability was created in the wool market because of the disagreement that existed between the Country Party and the Liberal Party when in office. We saw many examples of that phenomenon when they were in office over 23 years. 
The facts are, of course, that the wool industry for the first time has a firm reference point in the market. It is the height of hypocrisy to criticise this Government for creating instability in the market. As it happens, the wool market is very prone to rumours- and they are easily created. The honourable member for New England has made his contribution here today, but there has been no wool industry Bill calling for guarantees that has not had a clause covering the need to give guarantees to banks when the Australian Wool Commission, the Australian Wool Board prior to the Australian Wool Commission, or the Australian Wool Corporation as it is now has borrowed from the trading banks. To say that we have introduced a new aspect in requiring bank guarantees is quite mischievous and the very fuel on which instability in the wool industry grows. Again we find the New South Wales Graziers Association fuelling that instability with its requests for devaluation of the dollar. In economic circumstances which did not point to the need to devalue the dollar, this rumour was floated not by the Government but by a section of the industry. When we talk about instability it is very important that we realise how vulnerable the wool industry is to this type of rumour. Today we have witnessed one contribution to this rumour-mongering and recently, through the request of the New South Wales graziers, we witnessed another contribution. 
I will leave for the moment some of the other aspects that the honourable member for New England raised in his speech because I would like to cover them in more detail in my own speech. The present Bill provides additional funds for the continuation of the buying operations of the Australian Wool Corporation. In essence, it guarantees new borrowings of $70m from the trading banks. The guarantee here, I reemphasise, is in no way unique. Naturally the trading banks, the private enterprise operations, would need some form of guarantee from a statutory corporation that its funds would be covered in the event of a major disaster. One can never rule out such a disaster in a commodity market such as the wool market. So these guarantees are not unique. 
The second aspect of the Bill is that it appropriates $80m from Consolidated Revenue to the Wool Corporation in the form of a loan to sustain its marketing operations in the market place. We have a very strong commitment, one of the strongest commitments ever given to the wool industry by a government, to underwrite the market at 250c for 2 1 micron wool clean. This is stronger in this season than it was in the last season because it is an open-ended commitment. In the previous season a limitation was inherent in the amount of money appropriated to the Wool Corporation. For the first time in the history of Australia a government has given an open-ended commitment to support the market at 250c clean. 
We heard from the honourable member for New England about the instability that is created in the market. There is no ground whatsoever this year for that instability. There would be grounds for instability with the formula which he proposed- that the price be reviewed at the end of each season. We should consider the sort of speculation that would take place if high stocks were held by the Australian Wool Corporation, demand slackens and the funds look like skyrocketing through the ceiling. Any government has the responsibility of managing the Budget in such a way as to curtail expenditures. The honourable member for New England said that in no circumstances should an announcement be made before the end of the season. If the Government sees fit to support the market at a firm price it could easily curtail a great deal of speculation in the market by making early announcements. To establish a firm position on this is, I believe, quite dangerous. We have to play the market as we see it. We have to look at the market and make judgments as to what is sensible and sane in maintaining a sensible level of demand in the market. 
As I said previously, the Opposition, when in government, resolutely refused to provide a floor price. It cannot escape. That was always its position. From time to time the National Country Party made noises which sounded like support. I remember quite vividly the debates in 1965 when the Country Party in the end left it to  Sir William  Gun to go around the hustings and to sell the idea of a reserve price. Even at that point the Country Party was not prepared to commit itself strongly on the hustings because it knew that it would be beaten, as it subsequently was, by its Liberal partner in the coalition. It is all very well for the Country Party members to use strong words but in the past they have never been supported by their Liberal colleagues in the Parliament. This historical phenomenon will create more uncertainty in the minds of a wool industry which is stupid enough to believe that this coalition would ever come into office than would anything this Government could do or has done. 
Last week the average price for 21 micron wool clean in Australia was 253c. That represents a strengthening in the market. The indications are that that strengthening is well grounded. Unlike the quick rise last year, which was mainly fuelled by Japanese demand, we now find a very general base to the competition in the wool market. The market is attracting support from many countries. The indications are that we now have a fairly strongly based increase in demand for wool. Another early warning sign which points to an encouraging price trend is that demand at the moment is concentrated in what is called the skirting end of the market where we have locks, crutchings and oddments which are normally slow movers in the market. Here there has been a revival of demand which is quite significant. 
So far as the stock situation is concerned, the Australian Wool Corporation holds 1.8 million bales of wool. To some people that might seem fairly high. From my own experience I do not believe it is a figure about which we need to get too disturbed. The wool industry is characterised by those fluctuations in demand and if we are to supply the market in a fairly even way- more importantly, to supply those types of wool which are in demand- we need to have a fairly sizeable stockpile behind the market; and the Australian Wool Corporation has that stockpile. It seems to me that it is in an extremely powerful trading position in the market and already we are getting indications from overseas merchants that the 
Australian Wool Corporation has achieved this position of power in the trading market. We are getting complaints from people whose incomes depend on speculation in the market that their avenues of speculation have been cut off because the stock holding function in the wool market has been transferred to the Australian Wool Corporation. That is a very desirable trend as far as I am concerned, and I am sure that the Government shares that view. 
As a consequence of the revival in the demand for wool the need for funds as far as the Wool Corporation is concerned is now rapidly falling and it would appear that the basis which I have mentioned is being set now for a very steady increase in the trading of the wool stocks of the Corporation. This has been enhanced by the fact that the stocks have been spread around the world. Wool stocks are being held in European countries and in the United States. It has turned out that the United States stocks are particularly important because the wool industry in the United States has been asking for the continuity of supply. It needs to have an available supply of wool at a reasonably secure price. It would appear that the fact that the Australian Wool Corporation holds its stocks in the United States has been a contributing factor to the revival of interest in wool in the United States. I have been told by the Australian Wool Corporation that this interest again appears to be strongly based and looks like being the beginning of a strong revival in the consumption of wool in the United States. Indeed the demand for wool throughout the Northern Hemisphere appears to be firmly reviving. Recently as a member of a joint parliamentary delegation I had the pleasure of speaking to Japanese wool interests and they made the point that they had run down their stocks to a very low level. While the expectations which they expressed at that time have not yet been fulfilled, it would appear that the Japanese demand must revive very shortly because they just do not have the stock behind the industry in Japan to meet the normal requirements of the industry. 
Another characteristic which is emerging from the Wool Corporation's operations at the moment is the ability to match the market demand for the types available. There is a whole range of types in the wool industry. There is not one fibre; there are many hundreds of fibres. To be able to meet the demand which is expressed with stocks held by the Wool Corporation is quite a variation on the traditional practice in the wool industry. The supply of wool types to the market is dictated by growth and by seasonal patterns and need not necessarily coincide with the demand for those types. With the stockpile which is held by the Australian Wool Corporation it is now possible to gear the supply of wool types to the market in a fashion that is more in line with the demand expressed by the consumers. 
I turn now to the subject of private buying which has traditionally been a very controversial area in the market-place. I do not speak for the Government on this issue; I express my personal views which have been arrived at through long experience in the wool market. Quite frankly, I think private selling is a very healthy aspect of the market-place. Traditionally the people who have criticised private buyers in the market-place have been the wool selling brokers who have a strong vested interest in preserving the auction system. That vested interest stood firmly against the introduction of new technological processes in the industry. That vested interest has meant that the innovations which mean so much to the efficiency of wool marketing have been slowed down. Those innovations should have been introduced at least 2 years ago. Certainly they were feasible 8 years ago. But the vested interest of the wool selling brokers has meant that those innovations not only were not introduced when they should have been but also have been slowed down and have cost the wool industry of Australia thousands of millions of dollars. The main source of opposition to private buying comes from that vested interest. 
When we look at the situation we find a simple mathematical equation- that so much wool is demanded by the consuming countries overseas, a part of which flows through the auction system and a part of which flows through the private buying system. If there is a difference between the amount of wool demanded overseas at a price and the amount of wool supplied to the market, it will be left in the hands of the Australian Wool Corporation under the present marketing operation. It does not really matter how much wool is sold through the private buying system. The bit that is left over in the stockpile will be in the hands of the Corporation. If wool growers find that a discount on their market represents a sensible economic judgment, it is their judgment to sell the wool at discount to a private buyer so that they can get their money quickly or can see the wool flow through the system quickly. It is the individual decision of the wool grower if he accepts that discount against the firm price established in the market by the Australian Wool Corporation. All the garbage which is spoken about this type of market operation creating price instability in the market does not bear a superficial examination. If the grower accepts the discount, that is his personal decision. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 

As I mentioned before(Quorum  formed)  As I said before, the proposition that private sellers are a destabilising factor in the market can be discounted because the incentive for wool growers to sell to private buyers is purely economic and one in which they see an advantage in being able to get quick money from the private grower. The 250c per kilo support which this Government introduced in the market, and which the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition refused to introduce, provides the stabilising factor simply because it is there. No wool grower will go too far below that price when he sells wool to a private buyer. This of course is the factor that holds the market together. 
Let us look at the position now as we move into a strong market when the only strong stockholder is the Australian Wool Corporation. The Corporation is now a trading power in the market and it can compete very effectively against private sellers. It seems that it is in the buoyant market where private sellers will be hard pressed to keep their businesses together. Any private sellers who have the business acumen to go through a period with the Wool Corporation holding the major stocks in a competitive market deserve in my view to stay in the market because of their business experience and the originality they have displayed under very trying business conditions. 
The recommendations of the Australian Wool Corporation seem to be a peculiar set of recommendations for the National Country Party to be supporting, emphasising as they do the idea that wool has to be rationed at high prices. The whole crux of the Corporation's recommendations rests on the idea that wool processors not wool producers should have some insurance in the market place. The wool marketing recommendations, as they emanated from the Corporation, made great play on the idea that when prices were high the Corporation ought to ration wool to its specially selected customers- ration wool not at a price which is as high as in the market place but at a price below the market price. The emphasis in the Corporation's recommendations was that in order to get continuity of demand it was necessary to provide continuity of supply at a low price. We had an absurd situation coming out of the market mechanism which the Corporation postulated in which the high price market was the prerogative of only those people who might be innovators and who had a real market demand stemming through their operations and that the low price wool should be rationed to other processors who had taken the favour of the Corporation. 
I do not see how those recommendations can be defended. Certainly I do not see how they can be defended to wool producers. I am absolutely staggered that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  should stand here and reiterate his support for this sort of proposition. I cannot see how on earth any Party that professes to represent wool growers in this country can defend that sort of proposition to the wool growers of Australia who have come through a very serious slump in wool prices. We must note in this debate that it was the Australian Labor Party in Government which introduced stability into the wool market through a fixed reserve price in spite of the opposition displayed from the Liberal and National Country parties on the issue. I say that with great emphasis because the opposition stems right back to 1965 when the debates were initiated. 
-The proof of the pudding is in the eating but the facts relating to this debate are to be found in the figures displayed in the various publications associated with the Budget Speech and in the report of the Grants Commission. I want to refer to the Forty-second Report of the Commission. On page 3 1 of that report we find the figures that really count so far as the States are concerned. If we start at 1970-71 and compare the increase in the Australian Government's general revenue payments to the States we find, in the case of New South Wales, that in successive years the increase was 2.7 per cent, 7.8 per cent- and then the composition of the government changed- 10.5 per cent, 27.4 per cent and 30.6 per cent. Those figures represent the increase. There has been a 30.6 per cent increase in the grants allocated to New South Wales yet the New South Wales Premier has the audacity to condemn this Government for not providing financial assistance to his State. All the words in the world will not overcome the simple fact that under this Government grants to the States have increased by about one-third when compared with the measly less than 3 per cent made available under the previous Government. 
We find when we look at the document containing payments to or for the States for local government which was tabled by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that the story has continued in this sphere. No matter where we look we find this story in terms of real money. We find the story magnified. Consider the field of education, one of the traditional areas in which the Australian Government makes grants to the States. In 1971-72 the figure was $56m. Then it was increased to $74m. Then we see the effect of this Government gaining office in Canberra because the figure rose from $74m to $16 lm and then $43 3m. In the most recent Budget, which the Opposition has seen fit to obstruct, the figure is $472m. Compare that sum of $472 m with the $56m allocated in the last full year of the previous government's period in power. 
The story continues in new areas where the initiatives of this Government have been displayed for the first time for the benefit of local government and State governments. I choose for example the area improvement plan created by this Government and which has been supervised by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  In the present Budget an allocation of $l7m has been made to the area improvement plan. This is a new initiative which was never dreamed of by the Opposition Parties when in government. 
I turn now to the very important area of local government- the  Cinderella  level of government in this country- to demonstrate again the performance of this Government in hard facts. I quote from table 93 on page 122 of Budget Paper No. 7. Australian Government payments direct to local government authorities continued from about 1965-66 to 1971-72 at around the $lm level. They ranged from $ 1.1m in 1965 to $1.9m in 1971-72. Then again we see the dramatic effect of the Labor Party in government in Canberra so far as local government is concerned. The figure increased successively from $2.2m to $5.9m, to $55.2m and to $1 1 lm. These figures are what local government understands. All the pie in the sky, all the half baked projects and programs that the Opposition now deigns to put before the electorate after 23 years of inactivity do not mean anything at all when we compare them with the performance of the Labor Government. 
If we look at the $ 1 1 1 m that goes direct to local government from the Australian Government we find that it covers areas that were never considered by the previous Government. These areas include child care and pre-schools, Aboriginal advancement, the arts, handicapped persons' assistance, homeless persons' assistance, nursing homes and aged and disabled persons' homes. The last was a continuation of a previous program at a considerably enhanced level. One can read quite a list of projects and programs which local government is now involved in but which it was unable to participate in under the previous Government due to its lack of initiatives. 
If we look at the proposals that the Opposition is putting to the electorate for consideration so far as the finance of local government is concerned, we realise how detailed the approach of the present Government has been. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde ), has done nothing if he has not illustrated the difficulties of providing an equitable distribution of funds to local government. He spent his entire speech listing the difficulties that are much more capably handled by the Grants Commission under this Government's legislation than under the diffuse proposals put forward on local government by the Opposition. The Opposition's policy is just not clear about the details of the method of sharing income tax with local government. The previous speaker has simply enabled me to make my point more forcefully without doing anything but refer the reader or the listener to his speech. He has listed in great detail the difficulty that small local government groups have in establishing their case. How much more difficult would that be if they did not have the assistance of a group such as the Grants Commission whose main mandate is to establish where these inequities occur and to distribute funds accordingly. 
The Opposition's policy is very vague on many of the precise and important details that local government would need to know before it was in a position to endorse that policy. The percentage of income tax for local government under the Opposition's policy is likely to be small and fixed, unlike the increases which I have cited to the House from the Budget document. It is not clear how local government will get this money under the Opposition's proposals except from the State, and all of us have had experience of being told by local government officials what sort of deal they got under the State Grants Commission before the new proposals were initiated. All of us were informed by local government people in our electorates how difficult it was for them to expect justice at the hands of the State Grants Commission. It is certainly not clear under the Opposition's proposals how this justice will be meted out, how that equity will be dealt out. This certainly is clear under the Grants Commission proposals of this Government. 
If the Australian Government chose to reduce income tax collections, under the Opposition's proposals it could not announce a reduction until the Budget was brought down. This would mean that local governments, being forced to make decisions about expenditure, would be committed to an expenditure program which may not be financed simply because for more general economic management purposes the Australian Government found it necessary to reduce income tax collections. There is an element of uncertainty in the proposals of the Opposition so far as local government financing is concerned which would be intolerable to the sensible management of local government. As the present assistance to local authorities is in the form of untied general purpose assistance it is difficult to see how the Opposition's proposals could provide even greater independence so far as the opportunity of local government is concerned to allocate funds according to its own priorities. It is hard to see how the Opposition's proposals can give that grass roots support to the idea that the people on the spot would have the autonomy to make decisions according to their local priorities. There can be no doubt that they have that autonomy under the present Government. There can be no question that local government appreciates the freedom that it has received under the Australian Government's system of allocating grants through the Grants Commission. 
The Opposition's proposals, as very adequately highlighted by the previous  speaker,  do not ensure that inequalities in revenue raising and expenditure disabilities of local government are taken into consideration. This is the very mandate for the Grants Commission under the present proposals. Yet the Opposition's vague and generalised proposals make no attempt whatsoever to confront the problems that were enumerated by the previous  speaker  in his criticism of the present system- criticism which the Grants Commision accepts; criticism that the Minister and this Government accept. Each of the reports of the Grants Commission so far as financial assistance to local government is concerned has emphasised the difficulties of arriving at an equitable base. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  in his speech to this House just 2 speeches ago, emphasised the difficulty in establishing such a basis of equity. But it is clear that the mechanism exists. It is clear that the Grants Commission is working very hard on establishing such a basis. It is clear that it is working on the problem of communication with local government. Extremely difficult as this problem is, the Grants Commission is working very assiduously on it. 
We do not have to look to just this Government or to Labor Party supporters for criticism of the Opposition proposals. Let me quote what  Mr Lewis,  the Premier of New South Wales, is reported to have said in an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 26 September. In referring to the proposals of the Opposition to finance local government and the States he said: 
Until the plan was implemented it would be premature to talk of specifics. The scheme was still years away. 
He obviously does not think that  Mr Fraser  will be Prime Minister for many years. He is then reported as having said: 
Nobody knows what it will mean-  Mr Fraser  has to get into Government first. 

 Mr Lewis is obviously very uncertain and has no precise idea about how this proposed program would work. Other comments in a critical vein were made by the Queensland Treasurer,  Senator Steele  Hall,  Mr Kevin  Cairns and others associated with the Liberal Party or who at least have had past associations with it. 
Let me now turn to the question of how the Grants Commission has operated so far as financial assistance to local government is concerned. I wish to quote from the second report of the Grants Commission on 'Financial Assistance for Local Government' which was made in 1975. The Commission first makes the point that there were 76 approved regional organisations and local governing bodies that applied to the Special Minister of State for assistance. There is no question that the Grants Commission was confronted with a very large task in processing the applications from these groups. I know from my own electoral experience that this task has been undertaken in a conscientious and thorough way. I will read to the House some comments that were made by the Commission in the introduction to the report that emphasise the awareness of the Commission in regard to this question of equitable distribution. The Commission stated: 
Although some progress was made during the year in data collection and management, the lack of uniformity in accounting for local government finances, within and between States, continues to pose difficult problems. Direct comparison of financial data could only be made with caution and the Commission again had to rely heavily on the judgment of individual members concerning the relative merits of applications. A satisfactory system of completely objective measurement of fiscal inequalities may not be possible, but the Commission believes that with the co-operation of local government authorities in providing data and other information in a more manageable form, the area in which the judgment of members has to be exercised can be substantially diminished. This would make it possible for the Commission to consider providing local governing bodies with information concerning the calculations on which the assessment of individual grants were based, a course which is not possible in the present circumstances. 
There is only one way to solve the problem, and that is to work on it. The Commission is determined to do just that. It is no good dropping all the activity and all the experience that has been accumulated by this Commission for some vague and nebulous proposition, when in the end we will have to get back to the same basic details as this Commission is now developing. Eventually it will need to concentrate local government group by local government group on the causes of inequalities and inequities between those groups. 
In the last 5 minutes available to me I would like to concentrate on the effect that these proposals have had on my own electorate which largely forms the south-east region of New South 
Wales, namely, region 8. The Grants Commission has distributed $1.3m to this region. The Eurobodalla Shire Council received $100,000, the Goulburn City Council received $200,000 and the Bibbenluke Shire Council received $35,000. I would like to concentrate on those 3 councils. The Eurobodalla Shire is a coastal shire which has many problems imposed on it by the fact that it is tourist orientated. As time goes on tourism has become an increasingly larger industry in the Eurobodalla Shire. Strains are placed on the shire because of the need for beach facilities in the summer. There is the problem of huge loads and demands during the Christmas vacation and during summer time in general, falling away to a lesser demand in winter. The Eurobodalla Shire Council is plagued by the complications imposed on it by this type of business activity. It is plagued by the need to provide road access to many tourist areas which are used only on a seasonal basis. The investment in that infrastructure is not used adequately during the winter months. In one way or another this would be the main problem confronting the Eurobodalla Shire. It has another ancillary problem and that is that it is flanked by a national park and it is necessary to provide links of communication through an area which fundamentally does not produce rating revenue for the shire. To a greater or lesser extent, that is the problem associated with local government up and down the coast in my electorate. 
I now turn to the Goulburn City Council. Here we have a very interesting contrast. We have a long established, gently growing city which is able to use the moneys which the Grants Commission gives it to consolidate and build the significant social services infrastructure which the council provides. It is a city worth examination because it has a very stable economic base and, unlike the coastal shires, has a fairly regular economy in terms of the demand for its services. It has a diversified economy. In that we find many problems are created. In one way or another services have to be offered in the Goulburn municipal area which are completely uncalled for in the Eurobodalla shire area. In some cases those services may be justified in terms of total demand. In some cases they may have to be provided before the optimum demand has been reached. The Goulburn City Council is confronted with a completely different set of problems from that of the Eurobodalla shire. The Grants Commission has the very difficult job of evaluating those problems in terms of the topping up grants. 
Let us turn now to the other shire which I selected- the Bibbenluke shire. It is a completely rural shire which has to service a diversified area, a fairly sparsely populated area. Its main problem seems to be roads and how the shire can provide proper road communication through its sparsely populated and diversified area. It is situated on the edge of the Snowy River. Its topography is fairly rough. The Bibbenluke shire is constantly confronted with the problems of communication that characterise the nation as a whole. In my electorate there are those 3 examples of completely different local government problems. Then we come to a fourth local government area- the Queanbeyan City Council, which has the unique problem of being one of the fastest growing cities in Australia and which has been unable to provide the social infrastructure which is so important for the people of that city. Here again the Grants Commission provides an opportunity for equalisation of funds. 
The Grants Commission, as it is operating now, has been extremely successful. This is greatly appreciated by the people in local government. The Grants Commission by its record has demonstrated its effectiveness. I believe that without the shadow of a doubt the record of this Government stands unchallenged by the vague and unexplained proposals of the Opposition in regard to finance for local government. 
-The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  who has just spoken to the House has not emphasised the national characteristic of this particular problem in a very real sense. The Molonglo River flows into the Murrumbidgee which flows into the Murray and of course the people of Adelaide are dependent upon the Murray. We cannot go pouring lead and zinc as it is being poured into the Molonglo without having subsequent influence throughout the entire river system of Australia. It is a condemnation of the Opposition that while in government it allowed this thing to fester and pollute this river system in the way in which it has been in a fairly severe form certainly since 1962. 
In 1898 Captains Flat was known as Bog Town. It seems somehow appropriate to recall this name to the House at this moment as we consider the Captains Flat (Abatement of Pollution) Agreement Bill. In those days it was a busy town with 3 hotels and a population of about 4000 to 5000 people. It had a reputation for boisterous living. It has always been a political town as Billy Hughes found out at a meeting which turned out to be a miners' demonstration against the Government of the day and its intervention in a miners' dispute at Lucknow. These days the political drive at Captains Flat is spearheaded by a gentleman called Tommy Kerr, a man who has a striking facial resemblance to Bob Hawke and who defends Captains Flat with the same vigour that his counterpart employs to defend the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I, as the Federal member, have often been at the butt of that type of defence. 
Mining commenced at Captains Flat in 1874 and continued until 1962. During this period 4 million tons of ore were milled to produce zinc, pyrites, lead, copper and gold. Over 2 million tons of mine waste was stockpiled in dumps covering approximately 15 hectares. There are 2 ore bodies at Captains Flat. The northernmost is called Elliots and is the main body, while the southernmost is called Keatings and is the source of the present-day problem. According to the Sydney Mail of 3 July 1 897, a shaft was sunk during that year and went 700 feet into that Keatings section. It was then opened up at different levels of 100 feet apart. Water from a nearby creek called Forsters Creek now runs into a collapsed section of this Keatings section. It runs through the entire mine workings, picking up iron sulphate, sulphuric acid and, to a lesser extent, the sulphates of zinc, copper, lead and other trace elements. Indeed a very potent liquid emerges from the northern edge of the mine and flows into the Molonglo River and consequently, as I have already mentioned, through the river system to Adelaide. This mine waste has at times adversely affected parts of the river below Captains Flat for drinking water, irrigation, watering stock and Ashing. It certainly has reduced the aesthetic appeal of Captains Flat. It has significantly decreased the abundance and diversity of aquatic life in the upper reaches of the river below Captains Flat. 
Apart from this relatively slow but constant and chronic problem there is a more acute problem: If heavy and sustained rain falls in the area it is conceivable that a dump could collapse into the Molonglo River, blocking it and flooding part of Captains Flat township, possibly including the workers' club which would have a crucial significance to the Captains Flat residents. Collapses occurred in 1939 and 1942. These caused considerable damage in the area. As recently as 30 September 1975 the joint Government committees, that is New South Wales and Australian governments committees were informed that a very real hazard to life now exists as a result of the mine waste dumps at Captains Flat. As a result of the discussions between the 2 governments at both ministerial and officer level a report was prepared setting out control measures. In this report it is recommended that the dumps be reshaped and that these reshaped dumps be covered with layers of clay, rock and soil, followed by revegetation of the area. Other works suggested include channel linings and conduits in the Forsters Creek area to reduce water from the creek flowing into the mine. 
The present Bill will provide $2. 5m for capital works, $1.5m being provided during 1975-76. Financial assistance is also to be provided for the maintenance work involved in the structures that will be built to overcome this problem. The State Government would like to be in a position to let a contract by Christmas and it is expected that once the job is commenced it will take one year for completion. Naturally this work will attract people to Captains Flat, both in the short term to work on the job and in the longer term because the proposed work will enhance Captains Flat as a place to live. With these works, and others proposed for the area, I feel that we will see the development of a successful dormitory area in Captains Flat in the same style as that now developing in Bungendore. Toward this end this Government has provided more than $54,000 to restore the school to a proper standard to enable it to give to the children of Captains Flat education at the level that we must expect in this day and age. 
We may again witness the scene described in 1898 in Captains Flat. It was described as a busy little town with its own skating rink, skittle alley, dance hall, billiard saloon and a newspaper. Life was even leisured and gracious. It is said that to see the miners parading in the street of Bog Town of an evening in their bell-bottom trousers and short coats, along with their ladies whose slim waists and bustles graced the streets of Bog Town, would make many of our aristocracy feel envious. After the mine closed in May 1899 it stayed closed until 1937 when the Lake George mining company started work. The new revival was more soundly based than the first mine, but again the mine closed dramatically on 1 1 March 1 962 and the mainstay of the Captains Flat economy was removed. In spite of the inclusion of non-pollution conditions in the mining leases for the Lake George mines, in spite of 2 attempts by the company costing $28,000, the mine subsequently closed leaving this massive pollution problem. The State Government had to carry out further measures costing over $65,000 to effect a partial solution to the problem. But now it has become essential to allocate the amount in this Bill to overcome the major problem left by the mining operation. 
Apropos the name of the town I might just mention that I have authoritatively been informed that it was named after a Captain Tom Sawyer who married the governess of the Governor of Port Arthur gaol in Tasmania. As a wedding gift the Governor provided land at Captains Flat for Captain Tom Sawyer and his wife. It is considered that this is the basis for the name of Captains Flat. Certainly it is a more acceptable name to the residents of Captains Flat at the moment than the name Bog Town. As the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has detected, I have a very special and close affection for Captains Flat. 
Indeed, and an intimate knowledge. My affection for the town is based on the fact that it voted 82 per cent for Labor in the last elections. Of course my affection very definitely reaches to the people themselves. This is a town which has survived because of the activities of one or two individuals, one of whom I have named and to whom I here pay tribute, Tommy Kerr. These individuals managed to hold the town together after the dramatic closure of the Lake George Mines operations in 1962. The town has been kept going and I believe it will form the base of a different type of community in the future. It will be a community on whose future we can depend. Mining operations, by definition, can continue for only a short period. I believe the future of Captains Flat now rests on its development as an attractive dormitory area for the Canberra-Queanbeyan region. It will attract a type of person different from those who pioneered the region. Nevertheless they will be people who will make a major contribution to the future of Captains Flat. I believe that by attacking and doing something about the problem that exists because of the mullock heaps at Captains Flat this Government has made a major contribution to the future of the town, to the future of Canberra's water supply and to reducing the pollution levels in the Molonglo River and improving the water supplies in the Murrumbidgee and Murray Rivers for people living downstream. This is long overdue action and I commend the Bill to the House. 
-We have heard a biased view of the Government's proposals in relation to the Customs Tariff Bill. There can be no question that from time to time it is necessary to alter tariffs and to alter the direction of economic management. Let me cite, for example, a man who was regarded as rather an illustrious Treasurer- the previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  He made statements like the following: 
If you want to look at unemployment for economic and national purposes the figures that you should look at are the seasonally adjusted figures. 
A few months later the same man said: 
Seasonally adjusted unemployment figures are simply to help technical experts and Treasury officials to forecast trends. 
Then just to help the electorate to understand what economic pronouncements under the Liberal-Country Party Government meant, he said: 
Our position is perfectly clear. We have not yet made up our minds what our attitude should be. 
That Liberal Prime Minister, telling us about the record of economic management, said: 
The simple fact is that last year we had an increase in productivity of I per cent- a deplorably low figure. 
He said that in the House of Representatives on 1 December 1971. That is the man who in 2 years brought $4 billion of overseas funds into this country. Yet we have the hypocrisy of the Opposition now condemning this Government for having a deficit of $2 billion. The situation that was created by bringing in $4 billion in 2 yearsmoney that was not backed up by any assets, money that purchased assets, money that added to the volume of the money flow in this countrycreated the foundation for many of the economic problems that arose subsequently. During those 2 years under the Prime Ministership of  Mr McMahon  we found $4 billion flowing into the country. Nothing was said about that by honourable members opposite who are so vocal in their criticism of the deficit that has been budgeted for in this Budget and the deficit that was achieved in the last Budget. 
What would have happened to the economy if we had not had a deficit in the last Budget? Unemployment is already at a level intolerably high for this Government. How much worse would it have been if we had not had a deficit Budget in that particular year? In regard to economic and tariff questions it seems to me that the great difficulty is that people polarise to a particular point of view. They say either that the private sector is the only one that will succeed or that low tariffs should be the only policy. In fact there should be an amalgam of the two. To listen to the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  and to listen to the Opposition at the moment one would believe that if honourable members opposite achieved office they would reduce expenditure in the public sector to zero. According to them, the private sector holds all the solutions. I do not know why that should be so. Why should some entrepreneur who makes a judgment about the profitability of his own company thus enhance the educational facilities for the children of this country? The tenuous relationship between these two areas of decision certainly has not been connected by the Opposition's argument. 
The facts are that when this Government took office there was an outstanding deficit in educational and social facilities in the community. It is also true that we had a situation in which overprotected industry in this country raised prices to an extraordinary level compared with those charged for the same commodities overseas. It was clear that some sort of readjustment in tariffs had to take place. Once again the Government was plagued by the people who propounded one view as though it were the only solution. Clearly, we have to look at the whole question of economic management with a more rational, balanced approach than has been displayed by the Opposition which tends to shout slogans from the roof on these issues. 
I have given some examples of the performance of honourable members opposite when they were in government. Let me remind the House of a few more examples of their performance as economic managers. A headline in the Age of 14 September 1972 read: 'Sinclair, PM clash on rural bank plan'. On that particular issue the Liberal Party disposed and the Country Party proposed. On many other issues- in particular, the revaluation of the currency and tariffs, the subject of this Bill- we find that the National Country Party opposes and the Liberal Party proposes. In that coalition situation the position was stymied more often than not. There was a head-on collision, not between the 
Government and the Opposition but between the 2 coalition partners. Other headlines at the time read: 'PM shelves decision on price controls', 'PM, Lynch clash over cost of 35-hour week', and 'Is McMahon leadership good enough for Australia'. The question might now be asked: Is the possibility of a Liberal-National Country Party leadership good enough for Australia? 
It is clear that the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  derives some satisfaction from his present position. Let me quote from the New South Wales  Countryman,  a Country Party document, of June 1975. It said: 

 Mr Anthony and the CP  Deputy  Leader,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, addressed the large gathering and took a leading part in the negotiations to induce back bench Labor members to reverse the Cabinet decision. 
Surely it is the height of absurdity to say that the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party took an active role in inducing back bench Labor members to reverse a Cabinet decision. The only way they could possibly induce back bench Labor members of the Caucus to come to any decision would be to have them travel a thousand miles from wherever the Caucus was meeting. Let us turn again to the economic management offered by the Opposition. In a document circularised to all its members by the Graziers Association of New South Wales- a group which normally supports the Country Party- the Association claimed amongst many other claims which it makes, which incidentally sound like the greatest buildup that this Government could ever have, that it takes pride in having been associated with this Government on some 50 or so separate economic decisions. I quote one of them which that Association said is very important to its members. The report states that there was a long campaign for tariff reduction which finally led to a 25 per cent acrosstheboard tariff cut in 1973. According to the New South Wales Graziers' Association this resulted in a significant reduction in the $600m tariff costs to rural exporters and also enabled the devaluation it referred to. It takes credit for the devaluation in September 1974. These are some of the statements that we can put before the House to demonstrate the way in which from time to time the Opposition's economic management had to change direction. We on this side do not claim that any one solution- whether it be low tariffs, devaluation or appreciation- is the right thing all the time. Only the Opposition has put itself in such an inflexible position. It is clear that what is appropriate in one set of economic conditions is quite the wrong thing for another set of economic conditions. 
When we look at the position we are confronted with today we see a number of elements in the economy. First of all there are a few business leaders whose political bias has got the best of them. If they had a modicum of business leadership in them before Labor took office in Canberra it has certainly evaporated since. They have simply stirred the pot and used emotive words like 'socialism' and 'communism'. If possible they will equate them. Today in the  Australian  we find an article by  Mr Prowse  who is one of those business stirrers, one of those people who has failed completely to provide leadership to the banking sector of this country. We find in fact that the article gently starts out with the word 'socialism' but of course he could not restrain himself. By the time he got to the end, after condemning various socialist economies but carefully avoiding reference to Sweden all the way, he refers to 'socialist-communist economies' and then he makes a comparison between the economic management of this country and Russia. 

 His entire article reminds me of an express train which runs into a marshalling yard. By setting the points against the main track he finally puts the express train into a coal siding. That is roughly where his argument ends up- way off the track right down the coal siding.  Mr Prowse  made many assumptions through his article which just do not stand a proper evaluation in order to push his political line and in order to mention as frequently as possible those dreaded emotive words of 'socialism' and 'communism'.  His  partner in crime,  Mr Valder,  has been exposed in this place before today.  Mr Valder  has admitted that he does not even know what he means by the word 'socialism'. 
There are other elements in the economic climate. I believe these are the types of influences which have led the Opposition into its own coal siding and created an atmosphere around the Opposition which has led the Opposition through its own mythology to believe that the electorate is against this Government and that it can reject a Budget out of hand. Now the Opposition finds itself well and truly off the main track trying to reverse and get on to some reasonably credible course. But it is the Valders and the Prowses who helped the Opposition get into that position. Its own mythology and its own insistence that only the private sector can solve the problems of the economy, its complete refusal to acknowledge that the public sector plays a role, also helped. It is these attitudes which have led the Opposition into the incredible position it finds itself in now. Not only has the Opposition rejected the Budget but it has also rejected its own reply to the Budget. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has now told us that it is out of date, it is irrelevant. This was picked up by Kenneth Davidson in the  Age.  I shall just quote to the House some of what he had to say about the Opposition's alternative proposals for the economic management of Australia. Firstly he took up the point about regular elections. He said: . . . whether the Australian economy will remain healthy with the prospect of elections every 18 months or even 6 months if the Senate so chooses is anybody's guess. 
Either Australia will enjoy greater instability or the Public Service will become the real rulers of the country. The prospect is for something of both - 
Of course the honourable member for Berowra helped to give us some idea about what the Public Service would be doing if the Opposition were in office and in fact what the Public Service did when the Opposition was in Government. In referring to the advice given to the Government he said: 'This Government does get advice but does not take it'. 
The Opposition of course always took the advice. It had no initiative whatsoever. It had no policy. The Opposition in government was run by the Public Service. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  acknowledged this as recently as a few weeks ago. I read in the Press that he said that one of the problems that the Opposition had in government was not to be dominated by the Public Service in terms of decision making and policy making. There can be absolutely no question that in the LiberalCountry Party regime the Public Service ran the Government through the parties in power because the parties had no policy and no initiatives. 
It is important to get advice and it is important to give that advice careful consideration, but it is vital to govern and it is vital that the Government should have policies and should have the directions established- not the type of direction that I have shown that the National Country Party proposes and the Liberal Party opposes, not that sort of stymied direction, but a clear cut direction about the ultimate objectives. What is all this rubbish about this Government not being able to manage the economy? Our record at best is of 2 years simply because it has been interrupted by people who believe they have a Godgiven right to govern, people who refuse to accept the verdict of the electorate. When those people tell us to go to the polls, what is the point? We went to the polls, the electorate elected a 
Labor government and the Opposition steadfastly from that day refused to accept the verdict. What was it that the previous Leader of the Opposition said? He said he did not really lose the election. We never really knew whether he came second but the weight of that comment is now coming clear as the Opposition cries for yet another election, the verdict of which it will not accept if it goes to this Government. 
I continue now with my reference to Ken Davidson's article. He stated: 
Certainly it is possible at this stage to make a convincing case that if the Fraser Government attempts to do everything it has solemnly promised in recent months- even if the promises are carried out over 3 years- the consequences for the economy would be chaotic. 
For instance, the bitterness of the business community to the Government has obscured the fact that it is only Government spending which is holding the economy up to the present recession levels. 
I wonder how the construction industry feels at the moment about the prospect of a LiberalNational Country Party government that is committed to slashing present Government expenditure by $ 1,000m. I wonder how the construction industry feels about the prospects of even further cuts in building activity in this economy. Ken Davidson has put his finger right on the point. He goes on to say: 
Even if it were now possible for  Mr Fraser  to cut government spending by a promised $ 1 ,000m - 
And Ken Davidson claims it is not- and the money was funnelled into tax relief, the experience in Germany, the United States, Japan and even Australia is that in present circumstances the money would tend to be saved, not spent. 
Such an occurrence would, it is true, accelerate the already perceptible downward movement in inflation, but it would push Australia deeper into recession. 
Later in the article he states: 
Except in some synthetic sense, the election is not about the Budget, it is appropriate to current economic conditions. The Budget, in its essential elements, will survive even if the present Government does not. It will survive because the men who instigated it in the Treasury are committed to it and the Opposition has no coherent alternative. 
The only alternative that it has reiterated time after time after weary time is the proposition that the private enterprise sector of the economy holds the solution to all our problems. We still do not know whether it is the intention of the Opposition to raise tariffs or to lower tariffs or what it is going to do about tariffs. The previous  speaker  was able to go right through his speech without committing himself on that view. If the Opposition is going to raise tariffs, which tariffs? The graziers' association would be interested to know. If the Opposition is going to lower tariffs, which tariffs? Just where does it stand? As usual, the Opposition wants a 2-way bet. People in the Opposition will say one thing and then other people in the Opposition will say another thing. 
I am absolutely certain that those people who read  Hansard  will see that the  speaker  who preceded me will have said different things from the  speaker  who will follow me in this debate on the subject of tariffs. There can be no question that the Opposition presents to the electorate a very mixed bag of economic policies. There can be no question that the Opposition has failed, by its record in government and by its statements in opposition, to convince the electorate that it has in any way an alternative economic management system which is superior to the way in which this Government has handled the economy in a very difficult period. There can be no question that the Opposition's attitude to the economy is being artificially boosted by the Valders and Prousts of this land whose main aim is to get rid of the Government even at the expense of sensible and responsible leadership for their industries. 
