May I first of all  Mr Speaker,  congratulate you and the  Chairman  of Committees on achieving appointment to your important offices. May I, before addressing myself to this Bill, ask the indulgence of you and the House to refer very briefly to my 2 predecessors as members for Mcpherson. It is an honour to be the Liberal member for this fast-growing and changing electorate. It is an honour also to succeed such a respected Country Party member as C. E. Barnes, a conservative gentleman possessing stability and a natural dignity. Before him was  Sir Arthur  Fadden - earthy, capable and a shrewd judge of human nature, with qualities of fairness and friendliness. People of all political persuasions held them both in high regard. Whatever might be the length of my service in this House - a short period or, as I personally plan and hope, a more lengthy one - I will be more than content if it is marked with anything like the personal goodwill which I know these 2 men enjoyed. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his second reading speech referred to the desirability of electoral justice and that is a pretty worthy principle. My attitude over the years, particularly during my 5 years as a Liberal Party State  President  in Queensland, has been quite consistent. I believe in electoral justice. I support the basic concept of electoral equality and wish to see its implementation as much as practicable. But there are very real problems associated with this and for very good reasons there is need for some tolerance and some flexibility in seeking its implementation as much as possible. The Government, through the Minister's second reading speech, has stated a desire to be 'fair, open, just and reasonable'. They were the Minister's words. It was with this approach in mind that the Liberal Party's attitude to the Bill has been stated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  The Government's genuineness needs to be probed. 
I represent an electorate which very much reflects contemporary Australia. Fifteen per cent of the electors live in rural areas with all the problems associated with primary production, marketing and small towns. Twenty per cent of the electors live in the outer urban areas of Brisbane, part of the urban sprawl with all the challenges of the rapidly developing new community requiring services, amenities and facilities. Sixty-five per cent of the electors live in the second fastest growing city in Australia, the tourist city of the Gold Coast, in which many tens of thousands of people live and work and to which large numbers of, I think, very intelligent Australians, many from southern States, have chosen to retire. May I in passing make brief reference to the tens of thousands of people who as tourists come each year to enjoy the wonderful Gold Coast environment, including. I have noticed in recent years, with ever increasing regularity, members of the Federal Australian Labor Party Executive and Conference. I look forward to greeting them in July. Of course, I cannot accept any responsibility for their decisions. I am sure that the electors of Mcpherson - there are 75,000 on the roll - basically embrace the concept of voting equality but accept the need for some tolerance or variation from the quota to be allowed to the vast rural areas with special problems and to allow for growth factors in some areas and for divisions in which there is a decreasing population. I suggest that the overwhelming majority of Australians would share that view. 
The real question is: What criteria should be included for the consideration of the Distribution Commissioners and what variation should be permitted which would be fair, open, just and reasonable? The Bill seeks to make substantial changes to the Electoral Act. It allows the Commissioners to give due consideration to community of interests including economic, social and regional interests, means ot communication and travel, the physical features of the divisions and trends of population changes in the States but deletes any reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, density or sparsity of population and area of the division. If they were not in the Act before 1965 in my view they should have been. They were more needed then and before then than they are now. We live in a vast continent. The problems these criteria identify are real and the great majority of Australians who live in cities would accept these as reasonable if they are applied in a proper manner to a small number of electorates, some of which are larger than many countries. In common sense terms this would not offend the basic concept of electoral justice. As disabilities from remoteness and distance are lessened as the years go by, and they will be, the need for these criteria to remain in the Act will be lessened. Govern ment action specifically to assist honourable members to service those sorts of electorates will assist this process. 
The Bill leaves in the criteria the trend of population within the State. Some divisions have substantial increases in enrolments and the rate of growth has created imbalances between a number of divisions. My own electorate has been growing at the rate of 7,000 additional voters a year. Other electorates are static and some are declining in enrolments. Therefore, if we are to accept that we should strive to see that the great majority of electorates reach the quota by mid-term, just what variation is needed? A study of figures clearly demonstates that the 10 per cent permissible variation is not sufficient to allow adequately for growth factors. If restricted to 10 per cent, serious imbalances will occur within a relatively short period. To get as close to one vote equal value as possible a greater percentage is necessary. The variation of 20 per cent has been applicable for a long time. Professional advice to the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review advocated its retention and a study indicates that the maximum variation has been used only rarely. For myself, had the Government in its Bill indicated a variation of 15 per cent, its desire to achieve maximum voting equality would have been more credible. 
In addition, the proposed change to section 25 of the Act to allow a 10 per cent variation will create the need for almost constant redistributions which would be costly and would create undesirable difficulties for the electorate at large and the Parliament. The record of redistributions for Federal purposes has been free from charges of gerrymandering The fairness of recent redistributions has been demonstrated by election results where, in elections since 1949 with the exception of one - although one honourable member has challenged this - the Party or parties which gained the highest percentage of votes throughout Australia formed the Government. The results of the last election where Labor won 49.6 per cent of the votes and 53.6 per cent of the electorates would seem to underline the fairness of the 1968 redistribution. Electoral justice has not, however, always been the guiding principle in State redistributions. 
The Minister in his second reading speech made reference to the last redistribution of electoral boundaries in Queensland and, in criticising the Queensland Government and the Country Party in particular, attributed a statement to me that 1 regarded the redistribution as electoral injustice at Country Party insistence, lt should be made quite clear that my comment was with reference to the Bill which was introduced by the Premier and which was defeated by 8 Liberal Party members voting against it. Had the Bill been passed, it would have created a substantial number of electorates with large imbalance. I therefore understood the reasons for the Liberal Party members' action at that time. 
However, after further discussions, a new Bill was introduced by the Premier which was substantially different from the first and, although some imbalances still occurred because the commission did not take sufficiently into account growth factors, the present Act gives a rauch greater degree of electoral equality in Queensland. The Australian Labor Party would be very unwise to seek to have its record on electoral matters in Queensland compared with the present Act introduced by the Country-Liberal State Government. But it would not be satisfying or rewarding for any political party to have an in-depth analysis of its record in State redistributions throughout Australia. All parties can, with validity, have criticism levelled at them. When compared with overseas redistributions, however, Federal redistributions in Australia appear remarkably fair. Britain has constituencies varying from 40,000 to 80,000. In France there are enormous variations. In Canada a variation of 25 per cent is allowed. In the United States a variation of 15 per cent is regarded as acceptable. 
I was intrigued by the remark of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his second reading speech that the Government has a mandate for this Bill. Apparently the Government believes that as long as something was included in the Labor Party policy speech - even in the broadest of terms - its detailed interpretation of that can be put forward now as having a mandate from the people. This is a strange, illogical and erroneous argument to develop. It is completely unsustainable, and the Labor Party knows it. The electorate will not be fooled by that sort of approach. 
The Government will discover that I will not be an Opposition member who will be constantly on his feet  criticising  everything the Government does. Indeed, some of the legislation introduced and decisions taken by the Government, such as increased social security and repatriation payments and the provision of the vote to 18-year-olds, are worthy of support; while some decisions on unilateral currency revaluation, foreign policy and industrial matters have concerned the nation, including many people who voted for the Labor Party at the last election. But, when a Bill such as this comes up under the guise of a so-called mandate from the people and under the guise of seeking electoral justice, it needs to be exposed for the sham that it is. It is nothing more than an attempt by the Labor Party to have a complete redistribution so that it can draw boundaries in its own favour. 
If the Government forces this Bill through the House, it will run the undesirable risk of showing contempt for the intelligence and, more importantly, the common sense of the Australian community. I recommend that the Government deeply consider the implications of that action, because it will be judged by the electorate as an attempt by Labor to entrench itself by means which are not fair, not open, not just and not reasonable. If the Government is to proceed with a redistribution, it should do so under the provisions of the present Act or substantially alter its Bill to ensure that it is not seen to be setting up machinery to reflect its own selfish political interests by denying real and sustainable electoral justice. But, if the Government is determined to set a collision course with this Bill, it will find the Liberal Party prepared to take up the challenge and we will take it up with confidence. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that several weeks ago the Queensland Premier requested the Australian Government, through the office of the Prime Minister, to join the Queensland Government in a matching grant of 40 per cent for the Gold Coast City Council to assist that Council to restore, stabilise and protect Gold Coast beaches and properties as recommended by the Delft report, at a cost of approximately $14m over 5 years? I further ask: Has a decision been made yet? If so, what is the decision and the reasons for it; and if not, when will a decision be made? 
The importance of the tourist industry is receiving more recognition as time goes by. I hope there is no argument as to the significance the Gold Coast plays within that industry and the importance of the beaches of the Gold Coast to that region. In 1967 these beaches suffered substantial erosion due to cyclonic damage, lt attracted much undesirable publicity in the southern Press and the result was that the occupancy rate of places of accommodation dropped from 80 per cent to 45 per cent, and in that year earnings in the tourist industry decreased by $15m. I believe every honourable member would be concerned if in his electorate an industry had a decrease in earnings of $15m in a year. 
The state of the beaches on the Gold Coast led to a report being commissioned as to how we could best control beach erosion. It was known as the Delph report. The recommendations of the report, when costed, meant an expenditure of $14m over 5 years. All the States of Australia were prepared to accept that the situation was urgent because the Australian Loan Council agreed to an additional allocation of S5m to the Gold Coast City Council to start the necessary work. But if it is to remain a loan and if S14m is to be the accepted figure it would mean that the ratepayers on the Gold Coast would face an increase in rates of 40 per cent or almost half the present rates. This obviously was unacceptable and led to discussions between the State and Federal governments because of the significance of the Gold Coast beaches to the tourist industry. We were attracted to the national water resources program initiated in 1963 which was designed for flood mitigation purposes. There was an arrangement whereby the expenditure would be borne in the proportion of 40 per cent by the Federal Government, 40 per cent by the State Government and 20 per cent by the local authority. The 2 important criteria were those of protection for property and lives in the area and productivity. The flood plains of large sections of New South Wales were the scene of a disastrous experience in 1954 involving 22 deaths, a number of people being made homeless and $30m worth of damage covering a number of electorates. Certainly there was a requirement for protection. Productivity in that area at that time was $20m, basically from the sugar and the dairying industries. 
Order! No point of order arises. 
1 will comment on that before I sit down. In the New South Wales flood plains region productivity amounted to $20m and expenditure to restore the area amounted to $22ni. On the Gold Coast no lives have been lost as a result of cyclonic damage, but do we have to wait until some lives are lost before action is taken? There has been a substantial loss of property, although nothing like a loss of $30m. People who have visited the Gold Coast and who have seen the tremendous multi-storey development there accept that there is substantial danger and risk to property in that district during a cyclone. The tourist income in Queensland is worth SI 50m a year. Of that amount $100n1 comes from interstate and overseas. Half of the income derived from tourists in Queensland is developed within the Gold Coast region. That means, in effect, a productivity of about S50m in that region. Yet a request by the Queensland Government for assistance was refused by this Government. Assistance was asked of the previous Government very late in 1972 but no decision was reached. I have made it very clear that I regret that »he previous Government did not reach a conclusion in regard to assistance for this area. This matter was raised again by the Queensland Premier with the new Government, but his request has been refused. The reasons given were that there is so much coastline around Australia that the Gold Coast is only a small part of it. That is true, but when one compares the economy of the Gold Coast with the economy of a vast area of the coastline  around Australia one finds that the Gold Coast is a significant area of Australia. 
Another reason for the refusal was that the local authorities were to be blamed because they had allowed development too close to the beaches and the Federal Government could not be held to be responsible for that. Yet part of the reason for acceptance of a claim made years ago was that man-made development in that area had been subject to natural disasters. Indeed a study of old maps of the Gold Coast will show not that the buildings were put too close to the beaches but that a steady rate of erosion over the years has increased the rate of erosion, particularly in a  cyclone, to  a much higher degree. I hope that the Labor Government is now in a position to reconsider this matter. Certainly reconsideration of it is needed. 1 know that the Gold Coast City Council and the State Government are having discussions on this matter. They are having a second look at the report to which I referred to ascertain whether it is possible in some way to reduce the expenditure which will be needed. But the matter does require and deserve reconsideration. 
There is an inability by people to recognise the importance of the tourist industry. This importance has not been recognised by previous governments over many years. In fairness to the McMahon Government, in the policy speech delivered by that former Prime Minister he indicated that if his Government were re-elected he would move to allow as a taxable deduction depreciation on income producing  building  and he would ensure that access to long term developmental funds was made available to the tourist industry. I notice that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  is now in the House. I know that submissions are coming before him and I look forward to a consideration of them by him. I believe he will accept that what I have put is essential to the development of the tourist industry. Having said that, J reiterate that I believe that this Government should reconsider this matter. 
One decision by this Government which I applaud is the one announced yesterday or the day before in regard to the new off-peak airline schedules and fares. I  believe  that this is desirable and helpful to the development of the tourist industry. As we move into the future I hope that there will be a greater acceptance and understanding by ali honourable members of the significance of the tourist industry to- the national economy. 
The last paragraph of the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred to the fact that the Bill, in his opinion, represents an historic step forward in advancing and enhancing the role of local government in Australia. One would hope that it means a significant step forward for Australia. Reaction to it is mixed. It should have come as no surprise to any Australian. One's attitude to it would depend upon one's interpretation of the Government's intent. I am prepared to concede certain things. Firstly, I concede that this whole approach was mentioned time and time again in Australian Labor Party speeches by the then Leader of the Opposition and his shadow Ministers. There is no doubt that it had an electoral impact in the last Federal election. I believe that it was one of the most important issues and one through which the Labor Party was able to encourage substantial support. I would concede that the Government does have a mandate for this approach, although I would not concede that it has a mandate for each Bill which it introduces. But this approach was enunciated so clearly and the intent was made so clear that I would concede that the Government has a mandate. 
The Bill contains much of merit and much which should engender support, but of course there has to be concern about its intent and implementation, particularly from the Liberal Party Opposition which stands so much for the federal system of government. If we had to crystallise our concern it would be because we see the Bill as a possible vehicle to break down the federal system of government. This is why a number of my colleagues in the Liberal and Country Parties have expressed opposition to it and concern about it. One may be able to take some comfort if one reads the first paragraph of the Prime Minister's speech - this has been referred to by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  - in which he refers to the local authority becoming a genuine partner in the system. Presumably he means the federal system. But that is in conflict with his comments about a unitary system of government. In the last few days honourable members have seen very clearly the conflict arising out of the Prime Minister's comments. 
The Grants Commission has had a pretty good history going back to 1933. I am informed that it was a Tasmanian Prime Minister who introduced it. As we all know, the Commission was designed to help the smaller States to achieve an equality of standards with the larger States. I am glad to see that the States' rights have been maintained. I quote from the second reading speech as follows: 
The automatic right of claimant States to have their applications referred to the Commission for inquiry and report is in no way diminished. 
The purpose is to extend the right to local authorities. There is inequality in local authorities, and they need assistance. I do not think that anybody would argue about that. From looking at the differences in the revenues that have been achieved in recent years by the 3 levels of government, it is tremendously clear to each and every one of us that there is need for assistance to local authorities. I believe that, as Australians, we owe a great debt of gratitude to many people who have contributed to local government. It has attracted many successful people from all walks of life. Many of them make their contribution in a completely honorary capacity. They are unpaid. Substantial demands are made on their time. 
In my own electorate, which takes in the city of the Gold Coast - the second fastest growing city in the nation, after Canberra - I am aware of all the problems of growth and development there, as well as in the northern end of the McPherson electorate, in the top end of the Albert Shire and in the outer suburban areas of Brisbane. I know of the problems of the young communities there. Of course, there are problems in some of the rural areas because of the static or declining populations and increasing costs. The shires have tremendous difficulty in finding the necessary revenue to cover cost. We all accept that in the large capital cities of Australia there is a need for assistance in the outer sur.burbs. In this affluent and successful country Australians are entitled not only to adequate roads, water and drainage and sewerage but also to libraries, recreation facilities, community centres, child care centres and cultural centres. These are the necessities and the requirements of life. They are the facilities and amenities to which each and every one of us is entitled. 
I believe that the regional arrangements in the Bill are to be commended. Obviously it is impractical if some 900 shires and councils throughout the nation have to be dealt with. The decision as to where there are to be regional arrangements is one for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I hope that some of the smaller shires, particularly those in Queensland which I know, will make use of this arrangement. What has concerned me has been that in some of the smaller shires, with their very limited revenue, a sense of rivalry and competition has led to duplication of machinery and unnecessary expenditure. I am certain that there is room for improvement in effectiveness and efficiency in those smaller shires. The Bill makes it necessary for the submissions to go to the Special Minister of State. He has real discretion as to what is sent on to the Commission. I am pleased to see that a copy of each submission will go to the relevant State government for its comment and that, should it see fit, that State government will be able to make a submission to the Commission. This is essential because State governments have a very real knowledge of local authority areas. I believe, however, that a real responsibility rests with those 2 Ministers. The first one has to decide what regional arrangements are to be accepted, and the second one has to decide what submissions are to go to the Commission. I am not suggesting that either Minister would be involved in this, but this sort of system could lend itself to political patronage, which should be avoided, and also to the suggestion that all wisdom resides in Canberra, which I hope none of us would claim. 
The Bill makes it perfectly clear that it is a topping-up process; it is not a substitute for rates and charges, which provide about 90 per cent of local authority revenue in Australia. I believe that there ought to be revision by local authorities of the manner in which they raise revenue. To my mind, there is a great need to see that we have a more effective and fairer way for local authorities to raise revenue. They should not simply depend upon rates and charges. The Commission will play a very significant role in the national economy. I hope that the Government will be able to attract people with skill and experience to serve the nation. 
I would like to make two or three general comments. I believe it is fair to say that this is probably one of the most significant Bills to come before the House in this session. There have been others of significance, but this is one of the most significant.' I would have hoped that more time could have been made available between the presentation of the second reading speech and the debate today. This is a matter of national significance and national interesst. It is regrettable that we have not had more time in which to study this Bill very deeply. The concern about it relates to the maintenance of the federal structure. My attitude and, I believe, the attitude of many Australians will depend on this. It is a question of the Government's genuineness. References were made in the Prime Minister's speech to the federal system. We have had assurances from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in the House. Many people will be watching with great interest to see that the co-operation with the States and the consultation with the States, about which those 2 honourable gentlemen have spoken, does occur. Australians want to see decentralisation of power. They will be displeased, to say the least, if this Commission is used as a vehicle for the centralisation of power. 1 suggest that there will be a backlash against the Government should it attempt to use the Commission in that manner. 
Finally, I am concerned about the substantial drift in Federal-State relations. Since the new Federal Government took office increasing strains and stresses have been developing. I will not claim that it has been one-sided. I am on record in my own State as saying that I believe that some extreme statements have come from Queensland. In many areas the new Federal Government has adopted an attitude of heavy-handedness, an attitude of tactlessness, an attitude verging on arrogance, towards the States. This is not in Australia's best interests. It does not develop the sort of national unity we should have in such a strong and important nation. The 3 tiers of government will be represented at the forthcoming constitutional convention. I applaud the decision that local authorities will be represented at the convention. I hope, for the benefit of Australia that it will be successful. I hope that no growing disagreement will create divisions between governments which will make mature and balanced decisions difficult to achieve at the convention. I support the Bill but reiterate my concern, and the watchfulness that many people will be having in this matter, as to the way the Government implements it. 
The Treasurer &lt;Mr Crean) has stated that the task of this Budget is to reconcile the Government's determination to carry out its program with wise management of the economy. He has failed and failed badly. It is understandable that after 23 years in Opposition, Labor's first Budget would seek to implement as many of its policies as possible but there is a fundamental requirement that any government in framing its budget must have a regard for priorities and implement policies and reforms which it believes are desirable within the context of national economic responsibility. But this is a document which lacks responsibility and in some statements is guilty of deception. 
The Australian Labor Party inherited an economy in good shape, moving ahead towards full employment and with the rate of inflation in the last quarter of 1972 down to a level which was getting very close to manageable. Now we have enormous increases in public expenditure and an unacceptable inflation rate. Labor will discover that Australians after 23 years of growth and progress under the Liberal Party-Country Party coalition, with real improvement in living standards, will not tolerate a government which clearly demonstrates its inability to manage effectively the financial affairs of the nation. 
Of course, not all the decisions are bad. Some should and will be supported, but the Budget's inflationary impact will create immense problems and much hardship to many sections of the community, particularly to those groups which Labor pretends the Budget is designed to assist. The Government will of course delay facing up to the inevitable day of reckoning as long as it can - certainly, I believe, until after the Senate election - but Australians should realise that bruised though they are by this Budget, the worst is yet to come. The weekend decision on currency revaluation and interest rates indicates this only too clearly. The Government will be forced to take further corrective action next year which will only further damage the nation's confidence and growth. We are dealing with an expenditure of SI 2, 168m, an increase of 19 per cent over last year. This is a dangerously high increase, particularly in the context of today's economy and a decision which will ensure a rate of inflation higher than 10 per cent. Australia cannot afford a Treasurer who for short term political advantage delivers an expansionary and inflationary Budget at a time when the state of the economy clearly calls for different decisions and emphases. But first of all, let me give credit where it is due. The increased allocation for cultural activities including the National Library, the National Gallery and collection, and the Australian Council of Arts is desirable. 
In recreation, the decision to provide community and school centres in co-operation with State governments, the increased vote to the National Fitness Council and the allocation of funds for national park development is equally desirable. In welfare, I commend decisions on Aboriginal advancement, road safety, the increased subsidy to senior citizens centres and Meals on Wheels organisation and assistance to handicapped children. The total expenditure on these measures is not large but regrettably, they are reduced to lesser importance when the duplicity and deception in vital areas is unmasked. 
In education, Labor has dishonoured preelection and election promises. Its attempt to claim an increase of more than 90 per cent in education expenditure is phoney. Whilst taking over responsibility for tertiary education, tax reimbursements to the States were adjusted to allow for this - close on $200m. The credibility of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has been severely damaged by the unjust treatment handed out to independent schools. The categorisation of schools on unacceptable grounds after superficial inquiry indicates the Government's preparedness to accept discriminatory advice. Labor has created justifiable anger in the Australian electorate because of its basic injustice in this matter to parents, children and schools. I sincerely hope that the Minister does not hesitate to review some of the decisions arrived at, which are so obviously unfair. 
In health, despite the remarks of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  Labor continues to state without either convincing argument or proof that the present health scheme is inequitable and inefficient. Whilst the present scheme has some imperfections which will require attention, this Government is obsessed with socialist and centralist policies, and against growing public concern it allocates in the Budget funds to commence the implementation of its national health scheme. The Government and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in this vital area, continue to attempt to force on Australians a scheme which will result in a poorer medical service and at the same time restrict  -  I use the word restrict deliberately - the freedom of choice of doctor and hospital. Labor would serve the interests of the nation if it looked at the question of dental care and made some positive contribution to what is required in this nation. 
There are approximately one million Australians who are entitled to pension payments. Many of these people depend substantially or solely on these payments. Surely they are entitled to enjoy an improved standard of living and to be safeguarded from policies which erode their personal savings. Our senior citizens have been sold short in this Budget. Labor's announced policy is to increase pensions twice a year until they reach 25 per co] of average weekly earnings. The Budget lifts basic pension rates by $1.50 and at the same time unleashes the forces of inflation which will negate the purchasing power of the pension increase and decrease the value of savings. 
This section of our community is unfairly disadvantaged, not just those on old age and other pensions but everyone on superannuation and fixed incomes who are not in a position to take any steps to protect themselves and their families from the ravages of inflation. One clear result of this Budget is that every Australian, old or young, wealthy or poor, will find that within a year each $100 of savings will be worth no more than $90, and probably closer to $80. 
In the field of housing, Labor is guilty of duplicity. The Budget gives effect to a scheme for deductibility of mortgage interest. But with sleight of hand, after no indication of this action in the course of the election campaign, the Labor Party is to end the valuable homes savings grants scheme, which has been of great assistance to young married couples in helping to provide a deposit on the purchase of a home. The deposit is surely needed before any advantage can be taken of interest deductibility. Sunday's monetary policy decision will now force up interest rates and further disadvantage young Australians. Sunday's decision was an attack upon home ownership in this country. In addition, the housing industry with all its national significance and importance is already reflecting the problems of costs and shortages which will occur with increasing ferocity from Labor's irresponsibility in economic management. 
We heard a lot about cities during the election campaign, but the proposals in the Budget were not a very inspiring first effort to tackle some of the real problems of urban life. The national backlog in sewerage - despite the comment of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  - is given limited attention only. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development comes into the House and makes comments, almost bordering on insult about the Gold Coast and sewerage. What I hope the Minister will do is make some contribution to solving the problems of the second fastest growing city in this nation. Making cryptic and insulting remarks does not require much ability. 
A more enterprising approach to the tourist industry would have repaid the Government. Obviously the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  - and I feel a little sorry for him - is finding it difficult to convince his socialist colleagues that the private enterprise tourist industry properly encouraged can contribute handsomely to the national economy. The relatively small allocation to the industry for promotion purposes is not good enough. A bolder imaginative approach, including depreciation allowances on tourist income producing buildings and a rethinking of some civil aviation and transport policies would have not only assisted the industry but repaid the national purse. 
There are many other examples in the Budget of discriminatory and deceptive attitudes. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the overriding problem is we have government expenditure up by 19 per cent. Increased costs include those of the Public Service new departments, commissions and committees to carry out Labor's socialist policies. They include public expenditure on projects like the pipeline authority - over $100m of taxpayers' money - which could have been financed by private enterprise. To finance this type of exercise and to help towards balancing the books, we have action on one hand to disadvantage private enterprise, which really generates the nation's wealth, to discriminate particularly against the primary producer and the mining industry and to downscale the defence capacity and, on the other hand, to inflame inflation further by increasing indirect taxes. 
For the rural producer, bounties on cheese and butter are being phased out, investment allowances discontinued and telephone charges increased. In addition, other undesirable measures have been taken against the wine and fruit growing industries and, of course, the mining industry, which has contributed so much to the nation's growth in recent years, as well as being singled out for continuous and vicious attacks by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor). 
Whilst no one believes there is an external threat to Australia at the present time, Labor has a responsibility to maintain adequate defence capacity. Surely we are realistic enough to accept that it is essential to back up foreign policy. The nation's security is the prime responsibility of government. Labor has deliberately downscaled our defence capacity particularly in the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force in order to assist it to pay for its socialist policies. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had given the House some detail of Labor's duplicity in key policy areas particularly in housing, education and health, and its irresponsibility in increasing Government expenditure this year by 19 per cent and thereby unleashing the forces of inflation, disadvantaging many sections of the community and attacking private enterprise, particularly the primary producer and the mining industry. But of course that was not sufficient in itself. The Government had to look at taxation. We now have a Labor government which because of inflation will reap an increase of over 25 per cent in personal taxation. In addition it deals severely with private companies - and they have made a very real contribution to the growth of Australia - and increases indirect taxation on fuel, tobacco and spirits. The increased tax on fuel is a particularly unjustifiable decision in the context of today's economic conditions. 
In the final analysis we have a Labor government which accepts inflation at an annual rate above 10 per cent - and there are very good reasons to expect it to be considerably higher than 10 per cent. The Budget document itself accepts that wages will increase by 13 per cent and productivity only between  2i  per cent and 3 per cent. The Liberal Party rejects this attitude and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  stated very clearly the unanimous approach of the Liberal Party throughout Australia to combat this menace. What is needed is a capacity to identify all the components operating within the economy and a determination - a genuine determination - to take wide-ranging appropriate action to counter inflationary pressures on prices, incomes, interest rates, working hours, industrial relations and Government expenditure, together with other monetary and fiscal policies. We support a prices-incomes policy, after consultation and discussion with all the responsible elements in the Australian community. We realise that this is not a permanent solution but it would serve a useful purpose in the short term and it is becoming increasingly obvious that some decisive, effective action needs to be taken. 
Labor's superficial approach on prices and its irresponsible attitude on wages are unacceptable. We believe that the common sense of Australians will accept an attitude that productivity must be taken into account when wage demands are considered. Labor, by its support of excessive wage demands in some cases, by its tolerance and regrettably at times by its encouragement of industrial unrest, by its posturing on prices and with its enormous increases in Government expenditure has set in train inflationary pressures which will create hardships, inequities and injustices in every section of the community. The Treasurer speaks of needed reforms and of clearing the deck so that these reforms may be implemented. But because of the Budget's excesses and lack of responsibility we are not debating what could be claimed in any way to be a document of reform. Rather, it is a regressive socialist approach to the management of the financial affairs of a nation which holds such promise under different direction of harnessing individual initiative and enterprise and controlling the growth of bureauracy. 
The Labor Party now has in its hands the justification to dissolve both Houses of the Parliament. But there will not be an early double dissolution. The Labor Party knows that Australians will not tolerate a government which tries to enact legisaltion to allow it to draw electoral boundaries in its own favour. The Labor Party knows that Aus tralians will reject a government which tries to enact legisaltion which gives to trade unionists privileges not enjoyed by the community at large. We now have this Budget, a deceptive document containing a number of deplorable and discriminatory decisions. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will not seek an early double dissolution. The Budget does not deserve the support of or acceptance by the Australian community and as this debate continues more and more Australians are becoming aware of this. 
The Opposition has brought forward for discussion this matter of public importance. We have heard 2 speeches from the Government side - one from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who gave us a rather academic lecture, and the other from the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  who attempted to give a great list of excuses for the Government's action or lack of action. But what are the facts as Australians know them? On 2 December 1972 the economy was moving ahead well. Employment opportunities were growing and inflation in that quarter was down to a manageable rate of 4.6 per cent. This was the result of good Budget strategy in 1972. Nine months later, a month after the first Labor Budget, what do we find? The economy is over-heating and the rate of inflation is somewhere between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. I do not think that even the Treasurer knows exactly what the rate of inflation is. The Budget document states that in this financial year wages will increase by an average pf 13 per cent while productivity is expected to increase by between 2.5 per cent and 3 per cent. 
Within a month of the election of the Labor Government, there was an uneasiness in the minds of the community. This became a lack of confidence and it is now, justifiably, a fear in the minds of the electorate. Why is it that the Labor Government lacks the skill to manage the financial affairs of this nation? There would be many reasons, but I think 3 reasons are tremendously important. Firstly, we have a Labor Government which is obsessed with socialist and centralist policies. Government supporters hid this pretty well during the election campaign, but the obsession is all too clear for everyone to see now. Secondly, we have a Labor Government which dislikes - even hates - private enterprise, with all the wealth and the great development and growth that that system has given this nation. Thirdly, we have a Labor Government which fears militant trade unionism, with all the disadvantages that flow from that fear to the great army of trade unionists with common sense and a desire to contribute to their country. 
The obsession with centralist and socialist policies is reflected by the Government's expenditure in the Budget. Of course, with all the commissions and committees and with all the growth of the bureaucracy, we had to have an increase in Government expenditure of 19 per cent. There were no priorities and there was a very real degree of irresponsibility at a time when different decisions and emphases were called for. We even have the Government saying to private enterprise: 'No, we do not want your $100m to build a pipeline. We must have that as a socialised pipeline. We must have a national pipeline authority'. So, more than $10Om of taxpayers' money has been allocated in that direction. There has been a deliberate attempt to shift the emphasis from private enterprise to the public sector. There has been an attack upon and harsh treatment of private companies which have contributed to Australia's growth, and an increase in indirect taxation which, of course, has created problems not only for private enterprise but also for Australians and has added enormously to the impact of inflation. 
Interest rates are at their highest level ever. Also, as the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  said only too well, there has 'been an attack upon the rural industries just when they were emerging out of very many difficult years. There has been a deliberate attempt to downgrade the standard of rural industries throughout this nation. As to the mining industry, the less said the better. From time to time the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in this House without regard viciously attacks the mining industry. He gives no consideration to the tremendous development and growth that it has given to the country. 
The Government fears militant unionism. The new Labor Government is not game, it does not have the courage to tackle industrial unrest. Before the last election the word was around: 'We will understand the trade unions. We get on better with them and we will have industrial peace.' But what has happened? The Government's record is vastly different from the words it utters. Not only has there been a lack of courage; there also has been a fracturing of the conciliation and arbitration system. The Government has shown softness as to working hours. It has not been concerned to point out to Australians the tremendously important link between wages and productivity. As to prices, after coming into office Labor postured by setting up the Prices Justification Tribunal and a parliamentary committee. Now it is talking about a referendum on price control. 
Leaving aside the Budget for the moment, let us study some of the Government's decisions. The Prices Justification Tribunal is just a sham. In cutting tariffs by 25 per cent no judgment or selectivity was used and no concern demonstrated as to the impact it would have. Did anybody believe that it would have a uniform impact throughout the country? It was just an ad hoc decision. It is appreciated that there were very good reasons for revaluing our currency but there was also a very good reason to have a look at the impact of revaluation and whether compensation payments were necessary. 
Interest rates are at their highest level and utter confusion has resulted from increasing them. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  does not know what it is all about. That has been obvious from the answers to questions and comments he has made in this House. The Government is talking about a referendum on price control. It is fascinating. Almost as fascinating is the way decisions have been reached. First we had the WhitlamBarnard Government. Members of the Second Whitlam Ministry have been involved in some decisions, but most have been made by three or four Ministers. We have witnessed the fascinating exercise of Caucus countermanding the decisions of the Government. I do not doubt the sincerity of Labor members but after studying their financial philosophy one can arrive only at the conclusion that as far as economic expertise is concerned they are nothing more than enthusiastic amateurs. In the best interests of Australia they should not interfere in some of the decisions made. 
All the decisions made add up to a credit squeeze. Because of a lack of proper decisions and proper leadership savings will be eroded and interest rates have reached their highest level yet. Tremendously increased housing costs have hit the younger members of the community. The Labor Government is supposed to be concerned about our senior citizens, people on pensions and fixed incomes, but they are becoming more and more disadvantaged. Regrettably, the worst is yet to come. The decisions made by this Government have failed to achieve anything but it is obvious that there will be more and more ad hoc decisions so that the confidence of Australians will be eroded. 
Why does not the Government display some courage in tackling inflation? Why does it not say: *We will look not only at prices but also at incomes. Inflation is a matter that has to be tackled upon many fronts.' Why do not Government supporters say that it is in the interests of the nation to have a temporary squeeze? We do not suggest that it is a long term solution but Labor members should say whether it is in the interests of the nation and is helpful. Why does not the Government have some courage? I invite honourable members opposite to look at Government expenditure and admit that the Government has been wrong, that there ought to be some pruning and allocation of priorities in Government expenditure. 
Why does not the Government stand up to militant trade unionism and say: 'We will not have this tremendous increase in industrial lawlessness with all the costs it imposes on this nation'? Can we have some clarity on interest rates from the Prime Minister, the Treasurer or somebody who is able to give it? Australia is not governed solely by the Federal Government. Why can we not have a cooperative effort with the State governments? Why do we not see a genuine attempt by this Federal Government to assure the State governments that it will not ask for powers to be used for its centralist and socialist policies but for powers in order to serve the national interest? I would hope that the Government would realise the tremendous burden that is coming upon the community and would appreciate that there are not only within the State governments but within the community at large many people who are willing to help if they get the leadership that this nation needs. 
The 3 Bills before the House tonight are all concerned with the welfare of the aged. 1 do not believe there is any disagreement about these Bills. There no doubt is a difference in emphasis and in detail. Indeed our senior citizens have found much improved conditions in recent years in Australia but there is still substantial loneliness and substantial hardship particularly in the larger cities and particularly amongst those who are older and frail. I commended the Government in the Budget debate on many measures within the social security field. I repeat that commendation this evening.  I think the Minister for Social Security  (Mr 
Hayden) has presented to the House 3 desirable Bills. I believe it is quite valid to put on record the tremendous improvements that have occurred under the Liberal-Country Party Government. I particularly make reference to the contribution by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  a former Minister for Social Services who did conduct the portfolio he held in a very humane and compassionate way. 
In supporting the Bills, I would like to make just a few comments. As to the Aged Persons Homes Bill, which increases the subsidy for eligible organisations which provide personal care services for the aged in hostel accommodation, I am very pleased to see that eligibility for those under 80 years has now been made available and that there is an increase in the subsidy for homes on a $2 for $1 basis. The Minister expressed some concern about what he referred to as key money or donations in this general situation. My own experience would lead me to believe that there is some tidying up to be achieved. I am therefore very pleased to see that a special committee within the national commission on social security is attending to that because I know of one or two circumstances myself which are undesirable. 
As to the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill, the Meals on Wheels organisation has grown throughout Australia and it is tremendously desirable. I think the nation as a whole can take some pride in the contribution by people from many walks of life. There is no doubt that the longer we can keep people in their own homes the better. There are definite social benefits to be gained by doing that. The increase of the subsidy to 25c when vitamin C content is made available has been accepted and, as far as I can ascertain, accepted well by Meals on Wheels organisations. Certainly that is the case in Queensland. Similarly payment on a quarterly basis is desirable and commendable. 
It is a fact that Meals on Wheels do more than just provide meals to people in their own homes. It is a very valuable social benefit. It provides a social contact with people and it alleviates loneliness. I am quite certain that there are many members of this House who through their wives or personally have had an association with this organisation and have seen for themselves the enormous social benefits which flow from it. 
I am a little concerned to read the figures relating to Queensland. That State is somewhat behind other States, particularly when one compares the Queensland figures with the figures for Western Australia and South Australia. I am informed that there are 45 Meals on Wheels organisations in Queensland, 18 of which are in the metropolitan area of Brisbane. There are a number of committees at present at work hoping to expand the organisation. The Minister might look at the desirability of one of his officers assisting local committees to get moving. I believe there is an area there where the Government could be of very real assistance. I am also not sure as to grants for kitchen equipment. I know there is a very handsome subsidy for capital works. The Minister might look at whether that covers the cost of kitchen equipment because I believe if it does not - and it could - an extension of the subsidy to kitchen equipment would assist in getting many new organisations moving. 
As to the States Grants (Home Care) Bill in which we see increased assistance to State governments and, as I read it now, a S2 for $1 subsidy, this Bill as we know provides for housekeeper and general domestic assistance for the aged in their own homes. I would hope each and every State will be tremendously active and will take up the full entitlement of the Australian Government's contribution in this area. When we see the figure - and I take it as accurate - of 13,000 people in nursing homes who do not really need to be there then it is tremendously important that this home care service gets all the attention and assistance it can. 
I believe that there was an instance on the Gold Coast within the electorate of Mcpherson where a lady had broken her arm. She had been found the next day by the Meals on Wheels organisation and been taken to hospital but was returned to her home within a matter of days. Of course she was not able to look after herself. There is no home care service operating in the city of the Gold Coast and I hope that the Queensland Government sees fit to extend the service to that area as quickly as possible. If it were not for the Meals on Wheels organisation doing more than it had to do and other voluntary community organisations who helped that particular woman then she would have found it very difficult to manage. I am certain that is only an example of many cases that occur throughout Australia. 
I commend the Government again on the increased subsidy for community centres. The Minister expressed in his speech his concern that some discrimination was used as to the complete use of the centres. I do not suggest that 1 know all the answers but looking at the situation on the Gold Coast where, as everybody would know, there is an enormous number of retired people - senior citizens - the more complete the centre is the more chance you have of having everybody use it and of having a community involvement in it. Here again, I believe that there is room for improvement because I see some areas of fragmentation of effort in my own city. 
I agree that the increasing of the share of the salary subsidy for welfare officers is desirable. Again, tidying up is required here because there is not the cohesion between the government departments that there should be. I have had experience in my electorate of finding that because, welfare officers are appointed by many departments, their communications are not as good as they should be and there has not been the support and the service given to the community which could result if we had great co-operation. However, I commend the Government. This is a very desirable area in which we all want to move. I do not believe that it matters very much which Party is in power. We all have a commitment to see that our senior citizens are looked after, and I believe there is so much more to be done in our whole approach to this matter that government expenditure in other areas should be carefully pruned. This is one area in which there is an immense amount of work yet to do. 
Was the Treasurer, in commenting on the September quarter cost of living increases, correctly reported in weekend newspapers as saying that inflation would probably get worse and that pensions should be increased by more than $1.50 in the autumn session? Since pensioners should not be disadvantaged now by the Government's inability to control inflation, will the Treasurer advise that he is prepared to recommend the introduction of a Bill into this House this week to correct the imbalance by a fair and acceptable amount? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the rate of inflation is the most significant problem facing the Government? Since the Labour Party's promise to implement a 35-hour week in the Public Service as a pace-setter is causing industrial problems and contributing substantially to inflationary pressures, will the Treasurer in the national interest add his influence to that of the Minister for Labour to persuade the Prime Minister and Caucus to withdraw from this commitment? 
This Bill is the act of a desperate Government. The second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has a superficial appeal. When the Prime Minister speaks of the democratic process or of too many elections, that has a superficial attraction. I do not know whether it is his view or whether Caucus forced him into it, but when he talks about too many elections or the democratic process who is going to disagree? We all appreciate that there have been too many elections. We are all concerned about the democratic process. Much has been said about the cost of elections and it is significant that the cost of democracy cannot be estimated in terms of dollars and cents. What is the fact? What is the real reason why we have this sort of Bill? Of course, it is the result of the Government's frustration. The nation will not be hoodwinked by the Government's frustration. The Labor Government has 2 problems of significance in this Bill. It has a multitude of problems, if one looks across the board. The Government has an obsessional fear of the Senate. 
I am terribly pleased that the new Department of Tourism and Recreation has been created. That is not to say that previous governments have not recognised the significance of the tourist industry, but I do not believe that the recognition has been fast enough. That would apply throughout Australia, including all State governments of various political persuasions. I am sorry that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  is not in the chamber tonight, because I wanted to congratulate him on the way he has commenced carrying out his responsibilities. Unlike some of his colleagues, he is apparently convinced, and rightly so, that there is some value to be had out of first class State-Federal relationships, and I am delighted to see the co-operation the Minister is encouraging with his State colleagues. As to whether it works well, we will have to wait and see, because it is early days yet; but at least it is encouraging to see the signs that have been exhibited. 
As to recreation, it is good to see that encouragement is being given to voluntary bodies to assist in the development of sport. An enormous contribution has been made, as the Minister, who is now in the chamber, would know, by voluntary bodies in developing sport and sport facilities throughout Australia. It isabout time that greater Government assistance was given to them. We all know that part of Australia's reputation comes from the prowess earned on the international sporting field. It has been seen fit to give an increased grant to the National Fitness Council. Of course, it is worth remembering that this organisation was the child of the late Harold Holt. It was the late Harold Holt who was so interested in national fitness, who first conceived the idea of forming this body, and what a wonderful contribution it has made to Australia. 
The Minister might care to comment at some stage during the evening on the grants that he made available only a matter of days ago to the various States for recreational purposes. I was very disappointed to see that Queensland's allocation was only $270,000. When compared with the allocations to other States, particularly South Australia and Western Australia this was of a very low order. I would like the Minister to comment, and comment very frankly, on this, because if there is not the degree of co-operation between the Federal Government and th Queensland State Government which we would expect we ought to know about it and we all ought to do our best to see that if there is an unfavourable situation it is corrected in the State's interest. I know of one association, the Playground and Recreation Association of Queensland, that is doing wonderful work in the newer suburban areas and in the crowded city areas to make facilities available for the community. I know it has put up submissions and I would hope that although it has not been successful up to now it will gain some assistance from the Government. 
I turn to tourism. We have always heard over the years about the potential of the tourist industry. I hope that before I retire from this Parliament we all will be able to say  that we really believe that the potential has been achieved. There is no doubt that if this Government's policies can be generated along the lines of having an effective liaison and cooperation with private enterprise we will see enormous growth of the tourist industry in the provision of substantially attractive tourist facilities not only for Australians to enjoy but also for overseas visitors as well. Of course I would not be faithful to my own electorate if I did not mention the splendours of the Gold Coast, which is only one, admittedly the most outstanding one, of many great tourist areas of this nation. 
In terms of external earnings, tourism can be of significance. I know that at the moment we do not have a problem with external earnings. We have tremendous development of minerals and we have rural industries doing well, but in an area of potential growth we ought to be doing more to stimulate overseas earnings. At the moment in the field of tourism there is a deficit in our balance of payments. Australians are spending more travelling overseas than we are earning from overseas visitors coming to Australia. I believe that it is in the national interest that that trend be altered and be altered before too long. We know that we have particular problems. We are a large country, isolated in degree from the rest of the world and not within the path of many tourists. Therefore it will require particular policies covering many Government departments if we are to attract the great majority of overseas tourists to Australia. 
The tourist industry is labour intensive. Therefore it has merit in decentralisation. Again we talk a lot of decentralisation, but here is an industry geared and read to make a contribution to assist in decentralisation throughout Australia. The Minister has produced, as he has done on recreation, a very fine volume. It is entitled 'The Development of Tourism in Australia'. It contains many good ideas. One would not expect any government to implement them all in a matter of a few years. I would hope however that before long this Government will see to it that the tourist trade has access to long term developmental funds, because this is important if we are to have capital invested in the tourist industry. I hope that the Government will follow the policy speech of the Liberal Party and give tax deductions for income producing buildings. If we are to have our tourist facilities updated, if we are to have facilities and amenities which are competitive with those in overseas countries, we must have first class accommodation available. I believe that the industry will find it difficult unless it can get access to long term developmental funds and get some assistance in the way of tax deductibility for income producing buildings. 
I hope that this Department grows. I could not say that about a lot of Government departments. This is not one department that needs to be bogged down with bureaucracy. With the right policies, in the international sense and in the national sense, with co-operation with the State governments, with eager cooperation with private enterprise, by maintaining a great degree of Australian equity, we can seek and earn the just rewards from this industry. Given this sort of approach, I believe it will repay the national purse. I hope that as Budgets come along over the years we will see this Department grow in national significance. 
Before the House are 3 Bills. They are all significant, but the most significant is the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5). This is part of the implementation of the Labor Government's Budget, a Budget which lacks responsibility and which is highly inflationary, particularly when it is considered that the 
Government inherited an economy in good shape. It needed different emphases than it was given, but of course we have a Labor Government pledged to socialist policies - an acceleration of spending in the public sector, a dampening in the private sector. Government expenditure has gone up by 19 per cent that is about $2, 000m. Most of this expenditure has been funded by inflation because of the progressive rates of taxation in this country. But because there was a balance needed to fund the Government's expenditure these Bills are before us. The Budget stated quite clearly that wages would increase by 13 per cent within the year, but that productivity would increase by only  2i  to 3 percent. It was a first effort by the new Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  and given the chance today at an election the electorate of Australia would make certain it was his last. 
These Bills are not ones of which the Government can be proud. The Government of course needed to implement the socialist objectives with all the committees and commissions it set up. The community at large will be hurt. The electorate is coming to realise that Labor's policies come pretty highly priced. The decisions are made by a combination of Caucus and Cabinet. It is difficult today to know whether Cabinet makes some decision or whether the Caucus makes it. Probably, this legislation is a combination of both - the decisions of 27 men in Cabinet or 93 men in Caucus. One has difficulty in knowing whether it is a case of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  persuading the Caucus or the Caucus directing him. 
But there is no doubt that there is uneasiness, uncertainty and fear in the mind of the electorate. With the Coombs report hanging over the electorate on a daily basis, not knowing what sections of it could be implemented, only one thing is certain: Inflation is running at an unacceptable level. To give Caucus its due, it did look at the gold mining industry and at the tax on age pensions. But it did only half a job on those 2 important matters. This legislation is part of the Government's Budget and the Opposition takes a responsible attitude to it. I support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  It is worth reading. It states: 
That all words after "That" be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: "whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the provisions of the Bill are a contravention of the Government's electoral undertakings not to increase taxes and that the Bill specifically: 
imposes unwarranted taxes on pensioners; 
eliminates incentives for manufacturing industry inconsistent with the economic requirement to increase productivity and ease the pressure on domestic resources; 
removes or drastically reduces important rural productivity incentives; 
jeopardises the savings and future security of Australians holding life assurance policies; 
places inflexible rules on the sale of property which take no account of reasons unconnected with profit motives such as illness and additional family responsibilities; 
impedes the development of small businesses by increasing the rates of private company tax, and 
places added cost burdens on Australia's wine and brandy producers especially the smaller producers of wine grapes". 
The decisions to be implemented under these Bills erode business confidence and growth. In the manufacturing sector, they terminate investment allowances of the order of  some  20 per cent on specified plant. These measures were introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government for the simple reasons of productivity and national growth. Surely we want a strong economy. If we want a strong economy, we ought to see to it that private investment continues to grow strongly. We need investment in plant and machinery. Surely any reasonable government ought to accept that it takes time between the ordering of plant and its installation and the output which flows from it. In a growing economy we need a capacity to meet demand. In the world situation we need to keep costs down for competitive reasons. Surely if we need to keep costs down we need up-to-date plant and equipment. The investment allowance was designed not only to benefit the domestic market but also to assist external earnings. This allowance has been eliminated by this Government. The removal of this benefit will erode the growth of business throughout the nation. 
The Labor Government further seeks to disadvantage private companies. I would have thought that the Labor Government believed in competition. If we look at the proposals in the Trade Practices Bill we might believe that it is intensely keen to have competition, even to the extent of making it tremendously difficult for business to be conducted effectively. Therefore, it seems to me to be reasonable to expect that it is desirable for small companies to be successful. Again, we have a Government that seeks to set up a small business administration. If the Labor Party wants to have small companies successful, surely it ought to realise that initiative and enterprise are not encouraged by unnecessarily increasing tax rates. Most small companies have small profits. I think that about 70 per cent of them have profits of $10,000 or less. This Bill will make it difficult for them to expand. In addition to increasing rates of tax for private companies up to the level for public companies, they, together with all other companies, will have to carry an additional burden of paying income tax in quarterly instalments. I pose the question: If we accept the argument that private companies ought to pay the public rate of tax why are they disadvantaged by having to pay a further additional tax if they do not distribute 50 per cent of their profits? I find it difficult to accept that this increased taxation will in any way assist the development of competition and growth of small companies throughout Australia. 
We see in the primary industry decisions a further reflection of the anti-rural attitudes of this Government. We all know that the Labor Party won most of its parliamentary seats in the cities. We are all aware that the Labor Party is in government because it won seats in the large cities of this nation. But surely a national Party ought to have an outlook of national responsibility. Again, we see deductions abolished on some capital expenditure for primary industry. It is pointed out that some abuse has been made of such deductions by Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers - people who are not involved on a day to day basis in the industry. No one will dispute that. But this across the board approach hurts genuine producers at a time when such an approach is not justified. We all know that the rural industries are going well now. No one questions that. But they have been through very difficult periods and particularly long droughts. We need increased primary production. Like the manufacturing industries, we need primary industry to have the capacity to meet demand. In a competitive world we need to keep costs down. These Bills deal an unfortunate blow to rural industry. 
Despite comments made during question time today, in the case of the wine and brandy producers we have a new system of valuing stocks. Surely it is reasonable to point out that these stocks have to be held over a long period, unlike other industries. It seems to me that, if we accept the fact that a new system has to be evolved, the Labor Government ought to consider granting a longer period for adjustment. The comment made last Thursday night by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, representing the Treasurer, indicated that some flexibility will be used. I would hope it will be used because small producers will have liquidity problems flowing from this legislation. We do not want to see small producers reaching decisions which will not have a desirable impact on wine and brandy producers. 
Profits from the sale of property acquired within a year of sale will now be taxable. Generally speaking that is fair enough. There have been some areas involving property transactions that ought to have been taxed. However, again there will need to be flexibility in the terms of the amendment to ensure that this is carried out in a fair and proper manner. The moves taken in regard to life assurance companies will have wide significance. They will touch hundreds of thousands of policy holders and, through those policy holders, millions of Australians. The legislation will increase taxes and decrease allowable deduction. Everybody knows that the major life assurance companies exist basically for the benefit of shareholders. This legislation will mean a reduction in bonuses of perhaps 20 per cent. That will hurt many people who are planning for their retirement and those who desire, quite rightly, to create reasonable estates during their lifetimes. 
But I think the most iniquitous aspect of the legislation is the tax on age pensions. All political parties have agreed for some time on the elimination of the means test. I think it is fair to say that when the Liberal Party announced last year that it would seek to eliminate the means test completely within 3 years for those people over 65 years of age the Labor Party followed the Liberal Party policy. 
There may be some dispute about that from the Government side of the House, but if honourable members opposite look up the record they will find that to be an accurate statement. Nobody questions that pensions were to be taxable. There is no argument about that. Nobody suggests that somebody in retirement, with an income of $10,000, $15,000 or $20,000 a year, should receive a tax. free pension. But it was the Liberal view that pensioners should not be disadvantaged. Under this legislation they will be disadvantaged. 
I know of specific instances in my own electorate where, on the Gold Coast there is a substantial number of retired people. I know that in my area single people receiving about $2,000 to $2,500 a year and married couples in the $3,000 to $4,000 bracket- people who have demonstrated some thrift with a view to assisting themselves - will be treated unfairly under this legislation. The abolition of the existing age allowance means that the Government will receive from such people an extra $8m this year and $12m in a full year. This is regrettable because these people cannot combat inflation. They are not like people in many other sections of the community who can keep in step with the rate of inflation. In addition, it is difficult for them to accept that Labor will ever get around to implementing in the life of this Parliament its promise that pensions will be raised to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. With inflation continuing at the present rate and with the increases given by the Government, I can see pensioners becoming further disadvantaged and not getting any closer to what has been promised. It is both unfair and unjust. These measures were really quite unnecessary. 
The Government needs to rethink its policies and objectives. It should have a bit of courage. We do not need regressive legislation such as this. We need positive policy decisions to stop the growth in the Public Service, which is growing at a substantial rate at the present time. The Prime Minister should come out and say: 'I withdraw my promise to use the Public Service as the pace setter in the claims for a 35 hour working week'. Those claims are causing tremendous industrial turmoil throughout Australia. The Government should have the courage to do something about the sordid record of the 65 per cent increase in industrial unrest since this Government came to office. It should have the courage to say to the Australian electorate: 'We accept that there have to be wage demands and wage increases, but when they are considered the productivity of the nation and the nation's capacity to pay will be taken into account*. This Government should have the courage to do something about interest rates, which the honourable member for Berowra has said are at an all time high in Australia during peace time. These Bills basically deserve to be thrown out; but they are part of the Budget and, as I said, we take a responsible attitude. People will be hurt by this legislation. They will not forget. When the opportunity comes sooner or later they will pass judgment on this Government, and the 1973 Budget and the legislation which flows from it will get the judgment it deserves from the Australian electorate. 
I do not wish to speak at length on this Bill, but there are one or two points I should like to make. The Opposition supports the Bill and I personally see no basic reason for a partisan approach to this matter. The Bill allocates $32,250,000 to the States as against S22m for this purpose last year. The Government has allocated that amount after discussions with the States. It is part of an overall Government expenditure this year of $1 17.4m for the Aboriginal people as against $61. 4m last year. I understand that the latter figure is double the amount provided the year before that. As I see it, the nation does not need to be ashamed although some regrets can be expressed at our record over the years. I am pleased to see that the role of the States in this area has been accepted. I do know something of the Queensland Department which deals with Aborigines. Within that Department there is a dedication and an expertise. This was mentioned, I think, last night by the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  who made, in my view, a considered and reasoned contribution to the debate. 
These allocations are desirable. The largest allocation is $ 14.4m for housing, an increase of 35 per cent. We all accept that it is the desire of the Australian people to own their own homes. Therefore, this action in the Bill is desirable. I would hope that when these houses are built the Aborigines become part of the neighbourhood and part of the community life. The allocation for health services has been increased from $3.7m to $ 10.3m mainly for water and sewerage purposes. Particular emphasis has been given to the needs of the rural and remote areas. I do not think any honourable member would dispute the fact that if we are to have good health amongst all sections of the community - which leads to contentment and satisfaction - essential services ought to be given some priority. An amount of $4.6m is allocated for education to cover pre-schools, kindergartens, and both primary and secondary schools. The Opposition believes in equal opportunity for all children. If that objective is to be achieved, education is obviously of supreme importance. Other allocations are made for employment opportunities, working through local authorities, teaching, road making, kerbing and guttering, forestry and flood mitigation. I hope that employment opportunities develop an interest and an expertise within the trades for the Aboriginal people. 
Looking at the overall Government expenditure of $ 117.4m in this field, I think the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr 
Wentworth) was correct last night in warning the Government that this amount of expenditure could be regarded by some as being too lavish. It is a very large amount. It amounts to more than $1,000 a head. It is important that it be spent wisely and has total community support in Australia. It is not a matter of saying: We are spending over $117; therefore we are doing a lot'. It is what we achieve by that sizable allocation that is important. Unless we achieve what the total community accepts as desirable there will be a backlash. We have seen signs of that already. I hope that they will diminish. 
I would like to make 3 points as to the general problem. It is essential to maintain a most harmonious relationship between the Australian Government and the State governments as the State governments will have a continuing role to play. As an Australian, I was concerned about the tensions that existed between the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Queensland Government. I am not going to suggest that they were solely the fault of the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  who is now at the table, because I know him to be very genuine and sincere in his service to the nation and to the Government in this area. But it was of concern to all Queenslanders. I know of instances where the rivalry created a degree of wastage. It certainly was divisive. In some areas where common sense should have ruled an emotive content took over. That is not in anybody's interest. It is certainly not in the interests of Queensland. But we do have the assurance from the new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  that ministerial responsibility will be accepted for all expenditure and that all expenditure will be reported to Parliament. 
As to special projects, there is of course an element of risk in any project, whether it is conducted by a government or by private enterprise. The success of private enterprise has been due to the success of most of the people engaged in it. The importance of special projects to the Government is that they are successful. Therefore careful consideration needs to be given to the viability of such projects. We know about the problems that have been experienced with the turtle farming enterprise. It was commenced by the previous Government, but it is very true to say that there was a degree of looseness in some sec tions of the administration of the enterprise. Figures I have been given put the administrative costs of the project in Canberra - I understand that the figures are correct - as about 60 per cent. That seems to be too. high for administrative costs for such an enterprise. Assurances have been given that this matter will be thoroughly investigated. I see no conflict between a demand by the Parliament that these ventures be put on a sound commercial basis and with doing what is right for the advancement of the Aboriginal population of this country. If this project can serve one useful purpose it is surely the underlining of what is an acceptable criterion to everyone. 
I believe that we can make tremendous progress with this important national problem if we involve the State governments and the local authorities and if we can develop community interest. One hopes that the Aborigines themselves will be involved as much as possible, giving them self satisfaction while at all times maintaining their self respect and dignity. With that in view, I believe that it will not be too many years before we can look back with a very real degree of pride to what we have done with regard to Aboriginal advancement. There is no doubt that many of the details of the Bill Wil require substantial investigation. In the debate yesterday the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  listed at some length a number of items about which he wanted to have more information. I believe that that would be helpful to all members of the Parliament, irrespective of whether they are from the Government or Opposition side of the chamber. Honourable members have pointed out the need for flexibility in housing. There should not be a rigorous approach to the problem generally. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
Just over a year ago the Australian economy was in good shape, inflation was at a controllable level and although we had problems, employment opportunities were growing strongly. There was a wide choice of goods throughout the nation. A year later, with all the problems we have - there are too many to enumerate - goods are dearer and scarcer, with substantial shortages. One key industry is the building industry. What sort of a future faces the home-maker? In steel, bricks, cement, timber, aluminium and nails, there are difficulties and shortages. There is a tremendous delivery problem in furniture and in many ranges of home appliances. There are  shortages  of plastic goods and cotton goods - not only wearing apparel but even surf life saving equipment. We will not get sufficient surf life saving equipment this summer to protect the swimmers at Australian beaches. The Surf Life Saving Association cannot even get the cotton nets it needs to protect people in the stinger areas. 
There are shortages in paper products, pharmaceutical products and in grocery lines. If honourable members go into any supermarket they will find substantial numbers of shelves empty. Hundreds - that is not exaggeration - of grocery lines are in short supply and this is an increasing problem for the small grocer. Why is this? We all appreciate that there is excess demand. Nobody disputes that. There is an over-supply of money. There is a world problem in the supply of commodities. We are entitled to ask: What has this Government done to alleviate the problem within Australia? Let us give it credit for- revaluation and tariff reductions, although selectivity should have been used. But of course revaluation and tariff reductions do not mean anything unless we can get deliveries from overseas, and with fuel problems delivery difficulties will increase. 
The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  talks about trade practices. The Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party support legislation against restrictive trade practices, but not of a kind that will disrupt acceptable commercial practices throughout Australia. What did the Government do in the Budget? The thrust of the 
Budget was not only undesirable, in many areas it was also irresponsible. We have excess demand; that fact is accepted by everybody. Yet we have a government which increases public expenditure at the rate of 20 per cent per annum. The Budget documents stated: 
We expect wages to increase by 13 per cent but productivity by only between 2.5 per cent and 3 per cent. 
If we are to have increased productivity and increased goods for the market place we have to encourage business confidence. But the Budget and the Bills that have flowed on from it have eroded business confidence. If we want to increase productivity we must give encouragement by way of investment allowances and not produce policies that increase interest rates to an all-time record for peacetime. We must not add additional taxes and burdens on private enterprise which generates this nation's wealth. 
What has the Government done about industrial relations? Before the election we had this extraordinary approach of the Government: The Liberal-Country Party Government has had some problems in the industrial area, but if the people elect a Labor government of course the Labor Party can talk to trade unionists and we will have industrial peace'. That was the promise; what is the record? There has been a 65 per cent to 70 per cent increase in industrial turbulence and industrial stoppages. Does anybody dispute that industrial stoppages add enormously to costs and the shortages of goods? The power strike had a substantial impact on the ability of companies and manufacturers to supply the Australian market. But the problem has been further exaggerated. Not only has the Government done nothing about that, it also has an extraordinary attitude on the 35-hour week. The nation's political leader, the Leader of the Australian Labor Party, will not withdraw his promise to implement a 35-hour week in the Public Service.  His  Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  publicly encouraged him to do so in the national interest. It is well known that the promise to use the Public Service as a pace-setter has encouraged industrial disputes. The power strike was a very good example of that. At least the Minister for Labour had the honesty to say to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam):  'Delay introducing the 35-hour week in the national interest'. I do not suppose the Caucus will let the Prime Minister do that. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is supposed to be in charge of the direction of this nation's economy, but when I asked him a question on the economic situation he would not face up to this tremendously important responsibility. 
If all that were not bad enough, we now have these extraordinary proposals for price control. It is a pity that some Labor members cannot remember back to the post-war years. If they could, they would know that price control does not work. It did not work then and if there is some grave misunderstanding - that could be the only explanation if the Australian electorate agrees to price control; I do not believe it will - and price control power is given to the Government we will find that productivity will be further eroded. Confidence is not built by imposing a lot of bureaucratic controls. With price control we will find abuse in the market place and a tremendous number of problems appearing with regard to black markets. All the present Government has to do is to look at the record of this nation to accept those eventualities as absolute certainties. The Labor Government has been in office for one year and it has set a few records. We have a record rate of inflation, a record rate of industrial unrest and now record shortages of commodities throughout the country. What a mess it will be for the Liberal and Country Parties to clean up. 
I have read speculation that we could have a double dissolution or an election before the middle of next year. We look forward to it heartily, although the new Liberal-Country Party Government will have to 'be responsible for cleaning up the mess in the economy. What is needed is a little bit of courage in industrial relations to say to militant trade unionists: 'Look here. You take into account the nation's capacity to pay when you are making demands.' Some members of the Labor Government must drop the obsession with the growth of socialism and the growth of nationalism. If honourable members opposite want to generate wealth they should see whether they can produce policies which will increase the nation's productivity - the nation's capacity to produce goods. They should stop the business bashing and get the economy back on the rails. If this is done - a lot can be done by a responsible government - Australians will then start to enjoy the standard of living to which they are entitled. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. By way of a short preamble, I take it that we all want to see competition maintained within Australian commerce and we therefore want to see small businesses and small companies successful. Does the Treasurer accept that with the private company tax rate moving up to the public company rate private companies, particularly in an inflationary period, will have difficulty in financing normal growth let alone any expansion? Does the Treasurer accept that in all equity private companies should not be treated differently from public companies by being further disadvantaged in having to pay additional taxation unless they distribute at least half their after-tax profits? 
All members of the Parliament were tremendously pleased that the Queen came to Australia to open the second session of the Twenty-eighth Parliament. In studying the Speech delivered by the Queen, it is recognised that it was written for the Monarch by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and therefore is expected to be studied in some depth. Indeed, some extraordinary statements are contained in the Speech, many of which deserve the closest scrutiny and some of which will require the test of time. Under the second heading - the test of time - I should firstly like to quote from the Speech. It states: 
It- that is, the Government- is reviewing the whole national approach to the handling of natural disasters. 
That remark was concerned with the problems in Queensland and New South Wales. I am not going to talk at length about this. The nation is aware of the tremendous losses in both property and livestock. I am not going to canvass, as the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  did, the question of what government performed in what particular manner. I think it is fair enough to say that, despite differences in emphasis and detail, both the State and the Federal governments did what they could to assist in that situation. The important thing is the future. We need government actions to diminish the risk and I would hope that members of the Australian Labor Party will be good enough to look at the flood mitigation Acts and agreements between the Federal Government and the New South Wales Government. We are not going to stop rain depressions and floods; what we can do is to build flood mitigation schemes which will diminish substantially the risk of damage to property and loss of lives. Under the current flood mitigation schemes, 40 per cent of the costs are met by the Federal Government, 40 per cent by the State Government and 20 per cent by the relevant local authority. There would be many sections of Queensland, not only Brisbane but also other areas, which would be very keen to see that sort of concept embraced. 
Honourable members will be aware that, coming from an electorate which includes the Gold Coast, I have some interest in tourism, and in this regard there are two or three statements in the speech which are encouraging and which will require the test of time. I am pleased to see that the Government will make the Commonwealth Development Bank accessible to finance projects in the tourist industry, that the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation will insure loans for tourism, that travel agents will be licensed - a desire of the travel agents themselves - and that the Australian Tourist 
Commission will now enter into domestic tourist promotion. It is a new Department and I wish it well. What we must see is just what sort of job the Government makes of the new Department. It started off pretty slowly. We are dealing with an industry which has substantial growth prospects throughout the world. We need to look carefully at the policies of tourism, both domestically and externally. There are many thousands of Australians travelling abroad and there is a net deficit in the balance of payments on tourism. I hope that this Government and the governments which succeed it will seek to correct that imbalance. An extraordinary passage in the Speech concerns the economy. It states: 
My Governmentbelieves the economy is basically strong and buoyant. Nevertheless, it regards inflation as a most urgent domestic problem and will continue its efforts to contain it. 
We have had a Labor government in office now for well over a year. We have inflation running at the rate of 14 per cent - more than 3 times the rate of the last year of the previous Government. Do members of the Labor Party think that the nation has forgotten a Budget six or seven months ago which saw Government expenditure in thatdocument increased by 19 per cent - probably, by the end of the current financial year the real increase will be substantially higher than that - that saw socialist programs embraced, such as the provision of over $100m to finance a pipeline between South Australia and New South Wales which private enterprise wanted to build and was able to build? Has the nation forgotten that it has a Government that has seen the growth of the Public Service with its obsession with bureaucracy and with the increased costs of all those new divisions and committees, estimated to be$150m this year? What a tremendous impact that amount would make on social services and other areas if it could be saved. There has been an enormous increase in the growth of the Public Service. There have been administrative incompetents in at least one department, with perhaps more to come. Interest rates are the highest they have been for decades. Young people - the people that the Labor Party sought to support it at the last election - are now paying substantially higher interest rates on their homes, the one major purchase people make in their lives, yet here we have in government a high interest rate party. 
There has been support of unnecessarily high wage claims and regrettably at times the encouragement by senior Ministers of industrial stoppages. So much for the efforts of the Government to contain inflation. I should like to quote the Speech of the Queen in regard to social welfare: It stated: 
The betterment of Australia's social welfare system remains a major objective of my Government. 
Indeed, what the Government's financial policies have done has been to create substantial inequities in the social structure of Australia. People on fixed incomes today are in a dilemma to know how they can afford to live in reasonable comfort, particularly when they are not in a position to handle the inflationary spiral and when the tax scales are so outdated and unfair. 
In regard to pensioners, I welcome the S3 increase. However, pensions are still a long way from being 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, at which level this Government has promised to establish pensions during its period of office. What would help pensioners and people on fixed incomes and the whole range of social equity in Australia would be a greater degree of government responsibility in managing its own financial affairs. The health scheme gets very brief mention in the Speech and I suppose that is understandable because I do not think the Government itself is quite sure just what sort of a scheme it is going to end up with. But one thing can be certain: It will be some kind of socialist centralised scheme with enlarged costs and an increased tax burden on the Australian community. It was not acceptable to the Government to look at the existing system that was in operation, that was good and that was functioning well but which certainly could be improved and had some simplification of administrative procedure made to it. But no, that was not good enough. We had to have some grand centralised bureaucratic approach to health. 
Private enterprise' are 2 words that one cannot find in the Speech. We can find many references to commissions, authorities and systems, but we cannot find the words 'private enterprise'. One cannot even find in the Speech where the Government says: 'We will co-operate with private enterprise for the good of the nation' - the one system, the private enterprise system, that has generated the real wealth of this country over the decades, the system that has given us growth and productivity, the system that has given us real living standards and improved living standards throughout this country. This is where the fundamental and deep philosophical difference between the Government and the Liberal Party lies. For them the heavy hand of bureaucracy and the depressive hand of socialism, and for us the encouragement of all of the skills and enterprise of the individual to help develop a great Australia. I suppose that it is not really surprising that there is not any reference to private enterprise because this Government is antagonistic to private enterprise. Restrictive trade practices are also referred to in the Speech. Legislation of this type of operation was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government years ago. Of course we want to see monopolistic practices avoided. Of course we want to see the right sort of business conduct throughout this country. But the legislation proposed by this Government will simply frustrate the honourable businessmen trying to carry on their affairs in a legitimate way. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation is again a product of a LiberalCountry Party Government. The Corporation was designed to bring overseas funds into this country and to help Australian enterprises get financial assistance. It was not designed for permanent control of these enterprises. It was not designed to compete with private enterprise. It was not designed, as this Government is determined to use it, for the purpose of using taxpayers' money in risk enterprises throughout this country. 
Mir ERIC ROBINSON- This is completely socialistic in approach. We have yet to discuss in detail, and no doubt differences will emerge, the financial corporations Bill which we will have an opportunity to debate next week. 
What does the Speech have to say about energy and minerals? It states: 
My Government is paying special attention to the development of the use of various forms of energy. 
What an extraordinary statement from a Government which has seen a decline in exploration for both oil and minerals during its term of office. There is uneasiness in the commercial and industrial community of this country. There is fear of what this Government might do next, and that is no more obvious than in the mining industry. What is the Government's supposed special attention? At least the Government is consistent; it will set up another authority, another bureaucratic control. In this case the Government intends to set up the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. It does not matter that there is a crisis in the oil industry. It does not matter that oil exploration has diminished to a dangerous extent in this country. It does not matter that other mineral exploration is down. We have yet another example of naked socialism from the Labor Government. 
There has been a continuation by the Government of its anti-rural attitude to rural industries. We all know that the Labor Government came into office largely because of the seats which it won in the two big capital cities of this country. We also know that shortly after the Government assumed office it attempted to push through a redistribution Bill which was designed to further diminish country representation in this Parliament. We know that the Government has disallowed depreciation and investment allowances and that a decision has been made on the superphosphate bounty which has, of course, created great turmoil within the Labor Party itself. While we can accept that the Labor Party is not interested in the rural industries of this country it is regrettable that we have a government that is prepared to be so lacking in concern for the national interest. The Government talks about decentralisation. Surely if we are to have decentralisation we do not want grandiose schemes in one part of Australia or the other. We want to see decentralisation right throughout the country with substantially strong rural industries helping to support fine rural towns and cities right throughout this country. 
I would like to quote what was contained in the Speech in regard to defence. It stated: 
In Defence, my Government will proceed with the major re-organisation and other reforms begun last year. 
Well, they are sad words, are they not, for the defence of this country? One would expect that even the Labor Party would understand that the national security is paramount and that one has to have a sufficient defence capacity if one is to have national security. During the term of office of this Government we have seen a dangerous diminution of defence capacity and a lowering of morale right throughout the defence forces as indicated by the substantial resignations that have occurred at very senior level during the past year. 
I would also like to make some reference to the referenda mentioned in the Speech. In this respect it is stated: 
Bills will be submitted to alter the Constitution to ensure that Senate elections are held at the same time as House of Representatives elections; to alter the Constitution to ensure that the members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly and democratically by the people .... 
This all sounds very nice, but what does it mean? It means, firstly, that if the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in particular is genuine and if he wants to bring the elections for the 2 Houses together he is but a few short miles and a few short minutes away from Yarralumla, and I am certain that the Governor-General would accede to his request for a double dissolution. Let us go to the polls and let the country judge at a Senate election which will be held in May. There is no need to tamper with the Constitution. All it needs is a bit of courage. All it needs is for the Prime Minister and the Government to say to the people: 'You be the judge of the record that we have been able to achieve in the little over a year that we have been in office'. 
The second part of the paragraph contained in the Speech from which I have just quoted to the House refers to democratic elections. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  the other day made it perfectly clear that such a referendum has been proposed for one reason only - and I believe that this referendum has a very forlorn hope of getting through - and that is that the Labor Party hopes to be able to redistribute boundaries in its own favour. A Labor gerrymander is what this referendum is all about. 
The Speech almost concludes with a reference to the policies of the Government for which, it is said, it has a clear mandate from the Australian people. One would reckon that they would give that one away. One would have thought that we would have had enough of that, lt is an erroneous argument to say that the Government has a mandate. If we look at the results of elections held in the various States we can see that the Government does not have a mandate from the majority of States. No government can claim a mandate for the sort of policies which it has enunciated during an election or in the years prior to an election. This Government does not have a mandate to have inflation running at near rceord level. It does not have a mandate to maintain social inequalities throughout the community. It does not have a mandate to interfere with this nation's Constitution. It does not have a mandate to injure rural industries. It does not have a mandate to weaken our defence capacity. Nor has it a mandate for administrative incompetence, and we will see more of that as the year goes by. 
The Liberal Party, and I know that the Australian Country Party associates itself with this, wants to give the nation the opportunity to judge. I share the view expressed in the Senate when, in moving an amendment in that place,  Senator Withers  said: 
The Senate is of the opinion and regrets that Her Majesty was not informed by the Government of the true position in Australia. 
By way of a short preamble to my question, I should like to state that I understand that the Prime Minister has indicated his concern over property and livestock damage and losses in recent flooding and erosion. I ask: Is it a fact that it is essential to have co-ordination and co-operation by the 3 levels of government in order that future risks and losses will be minimised? Will the Prime Minister indicate whether his Government will widen its approach in reconsidering whether assistance by way of grants or loans, or both, could be afforded to State governments and local authorities for flood mitigation purposes including the construction of dams which would assist in this regard and beach and foreshore protection on a 40 per cent Australian Government, 40 per cent State government and 20 per cent local authority basis? 
The Bills before the House - the Australian Tourist Commission Bill and the Commonwealth Banks Bill - have the support of the Opposition parties. Before I make some general comments on them, let me say that the honourable member for Bourke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  stimulated me to make one or two observations. Apparently he is under the false impression that simply the creation of a new portfolio and the introduction of new legislation is sufficient in itself. During the 16 months that I have been here I have said consistently that the test of time will be needed to see what the Labor Government is able to achieve in the tourist industry. The honourable member for Burke also made some derogatory statements - I think that derogatory' is the right word - about the role of private enterprise in the tourist industry. Private enterprise has developed the tourist industry of this country almost on its own. To suggest that private enterprise operators have been concerned only with the earning of profits is to give an utterly false picture, because industry generally has contributed immensely to the development of the tourist industry. 
My friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  made a comment about the standard of accommodation within Australia. There is no doubt that in some sections of Australia there is a lower standard of accommodation than is required: There is no doubt that if this nation is to develop a real value in the overseas earnings of income from tourism we will have to update our facilities. It is unrealistic to suggest that we have in this country facilities that will compare with facilities, not even in America and Japan which have buoyant economies, but in countries such as the Philippines, Thailand and Malaysia. Honourable members should have a look at the wonderful new hotels that have been developed for the tourist industry in Kuala Lumpur. It is wonderful to see the development going on there. Indonesia, which is not a terribly wealthy country, has realised and appreciated the significance of the tourist industry. So 1 suggest to the honourable member for Burke that he update his knowledge of this aspect of the tourist industry. 
It is true that it was not until recent years that the Liberal-Country Party Government started to appreciate the significance of the tourist industry. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  indicated actions that were taken. He indicated the content of the 1972 policy speech of the Liberal Party. The Commonwealth Banks Bill will implement exactly what was set out in that policy speech. For years one of the prime requirements of the tourist industry has been access to longterm developmental loans. Such loans are tremendously desirable and it is a scheme that we would have implemented ourselves. 
The Australian Tourist Commission Bill is designed to allow the Australian Tourist Commission not just to concentrate on the promotion of overseas travel but to be responsible for the promotion of travel within Australia both by Australians and by those visiting the country. The Bill proposes to increase the membership of the Commission from seven to nine and to give the 2 non-voting members the right to vote. That proposal looks good and I hope that it is successful. But just increasing the number of people on the Commission and giving them a vote does not necessarily make the Commission more effective. I will 'be interested to see what sort of people are appointed. I hope that a correct balance is maintained between people appointed from the Government or the Public Service and those appointed from within the industry, because if the Commission is to do its job really effectively it has to have as part of its membership representatives from the tourist industry -those people who are involved with the industry itself. So the choice of members of the Commission, particularly the new members proposed by this legislation, becomes significant. 
Of course we are concerned about the growing gap betwen debits and credits - that is, money spent by Australians going overseas and money spent by people coming into Australia. The debit in 1968 was $52m and the estimated debit 5 years later, in 1973, is $220m. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  said in his second reading speech that the situation is serious. Although we have not a balance of payments problem now, I suggest that the way this Government is spending money it will not be too long before we do have one. The Minister's comments are pertinent. I think that he is right; the situation is pretty serious. We do not want to reduce, and the Government does not want to reduce, spending by Australians overseas. We think it is desirable for Australians to go outside this country, because of the social, national and international benefits that arise to ourselves and other countries. 
I do not suggest that the solution is easy; of course it is not. We have a country which has a real degree of remoteness. But we have very substantial markets nearby. I invite the Government to look at the immense market that the Japanese are creating in the tourist industry. It is extraordinary to see the tens of thousands of Japanese moving around South East Asia week by week. 
As my colleague mentions, they are not coming to Australia. We are not getting the right share. The trends indicate only too well that we are getting a diminishing share of tourists from our near neighbours. What has to be shown is a little courage and determination when we are making agreements with overseas countries, whether they be airline agreements on air fares or any other agreements. We have to start to stand up for our rights. We have to be quite sure that we are not entering into agreements which disadvantage this country. That will require a great deal of strength. It will notbe solved just by bringing in a piece of legislation and giving extra responsibility to a commission. 
If the Government is really serious and genuine about developing a tourist industry it should have a look at the enormous costs that will be incurred. It must have the courage to look at the tremendous fuel tax bill and airport bills right throughout this country. Up until now the Australian National Travel Association has done a good job. I said that Opposition members welcome these measures. We think they are a good idea. We will be happy to co-operate with the Commission for the benefit of the industry and the nation. I hope that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation sticks to his words. At least the Minister has shown a desire to work with State governments and local authorities. Very few of his colleagues have demonstrated that same ability. It is to his credit, because if the Commission is to work there must be real co-operation with State governments; with local authorities, particularly in the provincial cities which have major tourist attractions - that is significantly where the tourist attractions in Australia are; with the industry committees; with the operators; and of course with private enterprise because it is private enterprise that has generated the real wealth in the tourist industry and the real wealth throughout the nation. I repeat that the legislation in itself will not solve the problems. It is what will follow that will be of real significance. 
Let me make one or 2 comments about my own electorate. The Gold Coast has developed because successive Liberal-Country Party governments have at least set the economic climate under which private enterprise has been able to prosper. Let me indicate to the Government that if it wants to come to the Gold Coast in my electorate and wants to show the spirit of co-operation that I have suggested, it will receive co-operation. It will receive it first of all from the Liberal Minister for Tourism,  Mr Herbert,-  in the CountryLiberal Party Government in Queensland. I think he has already indicated his attitude on this subject. The Government will certainly receive co-operation from the mayor of the Gold Coast, Mayor Robert Neumann, who is friendly towards this Government. It will certainly receive it from the tourist operators within the city. I was very pleased to hear that the other day the mayor, on behalf of the city, announced a substantial national literary award of some $3,000. The industry needs substantial stimulus in many directions. The Government will need flexibility to negotiate with the industry for the extension of package tours - which have added enormously to the growth of tourism within this country - into areas which, for one reason or another, need some extra promotional effort. 
If facilities are to be maintained in an up to date condition and if there is to be real development in the industry the Government must look at tax deductibility for depreciation purposes of income producing buildings. It is not possible to sustain the long term growth of the tourist industry unless tourist facilities and accommodation amenities are constantly and consistently maintained and improved. The Minister has said that the Government will consider this aspect. I hope that that is one facet of the 1972 Liberal policy speech which this Government will seek to implement. Therefore, I have pleasure in supporting these Bills. I hope that what flows from them will be of benefit. There is no doubt that this is an industry which is labour intensive. It has very valuable employment opportunities. It is one of the industries in which we find real decentralisation - not just one or 2 grand growth centres throughout the country, but real decentralisation. Tourist attractions are found not only on the coastal strips, not only on the Barrier Reef and the Gold Coast, but also in the inland areas of Australia. Many small rural communities have the potential for tourist development which can be of very real benefit. Other countries have demonstrated the significance of a tourist industry in earning overseas currency. In some countries tourism is the major earner of other currencies. As I said, we do not have that problem in this country today. It may well be that the tourist industry, if its potential is developed in the way that I have Indicated, can make a significant contribution. I hope that as the years go by our potential in Australia will be harnessed. The nation, the industry and everybody associated with it will earn the benefits and the rewards that will flow from it. 
I want to confine my remarks to the Queensland Flood Relief Bill 1974 which authorises the payment of up to $66m to assist the State of Queensland to alleviate the effects of the disastrous floods that have taken place. More than 2,000 homes in the city of the Gold Coast, which is in the electorate of McPherson, were entered by flood waters. The city of the Gold Coast ranked second to Brisbane in that regard. I think it is fair enough to comment on the community effort. It was wonderful to see the response by people and the effort generally by all citizens to help each other and the effort by service clubs and everybody else in the various communities. I think that they are to be applauded by us all. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made reference to the defence forces in his second reading speech. What he said was correct because the defence forces continually have been of assistance on the Gold Coast not only in regard to floods but also in regard to the threat of erosion. I am bound to say that, by and large, I think that there has been a real degree of co operation between the State Government and the Federal Government in this matter. 
I know that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  made some reference to the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not see fit to visit Queensland on his way to South East Asia. I will not labour that point. All I want to say is this: I understand that there are problems when people have set schedules. I would have thought that those who advise the Prime Minister would have seen to it that in some way on his way north he could have demonstrated his personal concern. Not that just going there would have achieved very much, but it would have been helpful and I think that the Queensland community would have been pleased to see the political leader of the country take a personal interest in it. But I do not put that in an important category. One or two Ministers came up and made a few statements, with which we did not agree, but by and large and in the end - which was all that really mattered - there was a very real degree of co-operation and liaison. I think it is one of the few times that after a discussion with the Premier of Queensland both the Prime Minister and the Premier emerged agreeing that very much had been done "by both governments to assist. 
The purpose of the Bill is to alleviate the hardship. The amount of $66m is a large amount of money. I am pleased that the Treasurer saw fit to refer to insurance companies. I believe that some derogatory and unfair remarks have been made by people in the community about the role of insurance companies in this exercise. 
The honourable member, as well as the rest of us, probably has some policies with an insurance company. However, I hope that all of us will explore to see whether insurance companies and assurance companies can play a more important part in providing the community with this sort of cover in the longer term. The Bill refers to the allocation to the State Government and the local authorities for restoration of facilities and amenities owned by them. I think it makes fair reference to the matter of personal hardship. A number of cases have come through my office. In the overwhelming majority of cases the people have been treated fairly. However, 
I believe that there is some need for greater flexibility in the approach in some areas, particularly with regard to war service homes. 
I want to refer particularly to the assistance to business. Honourable members will be aware that the Treasurer referred to loans of up to $25,000 for business firms. The estimated cost was $8.25m. But it is to be spread over a period of 3 to 5 years. I want to put this to the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  who is at the table: Let us take a family company that has a capital of $100,000 - that is not very much when one considers family companies in Australia today - and a stock level of $80,000. It produces a profit of $20,000 before tax, which would be a fairly efficient result on such a capital and stock level. Because this Government has seen fit to treat private companies in the same way as public companies for taxation purposes it will attract $9,500 in company taxation, leaving $10,500 after tax. Unless half of that- $5,250 - is distributed to shareholders it will attract extra taxation. So the maximum that can be maintained in that business for growth is $5,250. The amount of $5,250 has to be distributed and, of course, that is subject to personal taxation. 
Let us take the same company with an inflation rate of 14 per cent. To finance that same business, without any growth at all, its increase in stock costs would be $12,000 in a given year. It is not possible for that company to repay a loan, with interest, in the time required and stay viable. I put it to the Government - this is not the first time it has been put because a committee met recently to consider this matter and the Prime Minister or the Treasurer has received a submission about it - that the Government should consider making the loan for a longer term. If it does not make it for a longer term I do not believe that the Government is really encouraging people to get back into a worthwhile operation. 
My friend the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  wants to speak in the debate but he tells me that it is rather doubtful that he will be able to. Because of his immense interest in his electorate, particularly in the rural section of the electorate, the honourable member for Herbert is concerned, as we all are, about primary industry. I hope that the Minister at the table will be able to satisfy us as to where primary producers should look. The Bill mentions that the Treasurer will determine the assistance given. I know that a committee has been set up consisting of the Premier of Queensland, the Minister for Northern Development and the Lord Mayor of Brisbane. Is this a permanent committee? Is this the committee which in the end result is responsible for all decisions? 
Another problem in northern Queensland and probably in many other sections of the  State is that there has been substantial heavy rain which has not created a flood but which has created a situation in which crops have been ruined and the topsoil has been waashed away. What sort of assistance is given to these people? Although the water did not lie about and it was not a flood in the usual meaning of the word, it was caused by these enormous tropical downpours. The Bill refers also to the period from January to March. The Minister will know that there were heavy rains in northern Queensland before that - in November and December - which also created substantial damage. Generally speaking, with the gaps to which I have referred, I believe that both governments have made very valuable contributions. I am more concerned with where we go from here. We have to reduce the threat and the risk of damage. We cannot stop rain depressions. We cannot stop cyclones. It is quite improper to believe that the development that has occurred on what was regarded as the flood plain can be removed. I hope that the Government will look at how we can minimise future losses, because it would be better to spend the money in that way than to find ourselves with another bill for $66m as a result of the damage. 
I put it to the Government that there is need to look at long term flood mitigation works. No local authority and no State government has the 'capacity to finance the sort of works that are necessary. I know at first hand what is needed in Brisbane in the creation of dams and flood mitigation works on the Gold toast - not only the Advancetown dam but also the Benowa by-pass canal, which is well known to Government supporters. If the Labor Government is sincere it will announce before long that it will enter into financial arrangements with State governments and local authorities for flood mitigation works. The arrangement that has been put up time and again and the one that has been implemented in New South Wales is a 40 per cent Federal contribution, a 40 per cent State contribution and a 20 per cent contribution from local authorities. I hope that we do not hear the argument that this is a tremendous expenditure; that any government must consider this. At the end of his second reading speech the Treasurer said in relation to flood mitigation: 
The Government is examining this problem as a matter of urgency. . . . It is urgently examining ways in which protection may be increased against future occurrences of a similar nature. 
It is pretty obvious that, when the Govern-  ment senses urgency - apparently it does with a general election pending- money can be found for all sorts of things particularly in certain electorates about which the Labor Government apparentily has very good reason to be concerned. If the Government wants to be judged as doing something worth while and something which could be valuable to the community into the future I ask it to look very deeply at giving some long term assistance and planning to flood mitigation works. If that is done we can avoid or substantially reduce the problem of having to expend such an amount to alleviate hardship after a particular State has been devastated by such an occurrence. 
-The Health Insurance Bill 1973 is one of the Bills which will have to be passed if the Australian Labor Party's health scheme is to be implemented. The Government's health Bills have had a pretty lengthy and sordid history dating back before 1972. The Australian Labor Party made a broadly defined policy statement prior to the 1972 election. After that election the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  decided that a committee should report to the Parliament on how the scheme would be implemented. In a moment of graciousness he decided, six or seven months before the White Paper setting out the Government's intentions was produced, that discussions could take place on the scheme. This period of time would have been useful had the Minister listened to what was put to him. But what happened was that the Minister regarded people who made observations and assessments to him as being intransigent and obstructionists. What the majority of Australians believe is that the Government has been intransigent about its policy in this area. That is why, despite the comments of the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  the majority of Australians have been and remain solidly against this scheme. 
The Opposition's attitude to this scheme has been consistent and has remained so continuously. We are opposed in principle and in detail to the Labor health scheme. An interjection was just made in regard to the recent election. Of course, this was one of the Bills which was a subject of the double dissolution. Yet the Minister stood up in the House yesterday and said that the people of Australia had endorsed the objectives of such a program at 2 consecutive elections. One would have thought that we would have had enough of this nonsense that the Govern- ment has a mandate for every one of its policies just because it had won the election. What happened at the recent elections was that the Government's majority in the House of Representatives was virtually halved. What the nation told the Labor Government was to get back and to try and solve inflation. That was the net result of the election held on 18 May 1974. The Government inherited an acceptable rate of inflation of 4.S per cent from the previous Government. This rate rose to about 14 per cent prior to the recent election. It is certain the rate will reach at least 20 per cent during the course of the year if the Labor Party continues to pursue the sort of policies which it is putting forward. 
I want to say to the Minister for Social Security as one Queenslander to another that he ought not to be proud of this scheme, particularly as it affects his own State. At the last election 12 of the 18 Labor candidates for House of Representatives seats in Queensland were defeated. If the Minister had not been representing a safe seat he would have been in the same position as his colleagues the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  and the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  who are very lucky to be still members of this Parliament. We now have a situation in which debate has been limited. The fact that this is the new contemporary Parliament that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wanted does not mean a thing. The Prime Minister does not want lengthy debate on this matter because he does not want to have the deceit of this scheme exposed. The Labor Government is going to bludgeon this legislation through in the hope that it will be dealt with largely unnoticed. 
The health of the community is an important responsibility of government. The Australian nation is entitled to a high standard of health. This is a fundamental right of every human being. We ought to achieve a system which will work the most effectively and one which the nation can afford. It should be a scheme which gives us the greatest freedom of choice of doctor, hospital and fund with adequate hospitals throughout the community. We should not be discussing a system which will result in overcrowded public hospitals and which will interfere with private hospitals. 
The nub of this whole debate is Labor's obsession with socialism. Every time there is a problem which confronts the present Government the solution has to be another com mission or another committee. The Labor Party came into government with a health scheme which covered 92 per cent of the community. There was a problem with 8 per cent. The Government did not seek to improve the scheme. It did not even seek to consider improving it. The answer of the socialists had to be 'Oh, no, let us tear it down'. The scheme gave an opportunity for private initiative. The Labor Government does not want to see private initiative encouraged so its attitude is: Tear it down. Do not worry about the 92 per cent. Tear it down on some pretext in relation to 8 per cent of the population'. Of course as with every growth of bureaucracy, with the heavy hand of socialism, there is increased taxation. Presently the recommended rate is 1.35 per cent. Everybody in this Parliament knows that is only a starting percentage with this Labor Government in office. One would think that the Government would have at least seen the experience in the United Kingdom and would have understood and accepted the problems of the United Kingdom socialist scheme. When the Labor Party came into office there was a health scheme which was successful. It was not perfect; it needed improving. We concede that readily. The Liberal Party in association with the Australian Country Parity set up a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  That committee consulted and listened. 
To the honourable member who interjects I suggest that when you stop squabbling in Caucus you ought to get this document 'The Way Ahead'. It will be very good reading for honourable members opposite. They will have a better understanding of what this nation needs. We will be happy to supply a number of copies. Not only is this document the product of considerable consultation but also it goes into detail about the problems of the low income earners, the pensioner medical service and the paramedical services concerned with mental health and with all sections of the Australian community, particularly children. The Liberal Party scheme has support. It is important when one is trying to get society to accept something that one has the support of those people involved in it. We have the overwhelming support of doctors and hospitals because the Liberal-Country Party policy was born out of co-operation, not confrontation. There is a massive difference between those two approaches. We want society as a whole to have a very real role to play in health and not some centralised, bureaucratic control in Canberra. We are opposed to this Bill and we will remain opposed to it. On the basis of philosophy we are parties of private enterprise. We want to see private initiative developed. We are opposed to socialism. We want a policy and legislation which is effective and efficient and which gives due concern to the costs of the nation. We reject outright this bid for another bit of nationalisation by the Labor Government. If opposing this scheme to the ninth degree means that we are labelled obstructionist, every member on this side of the House will be very pleased and proud to carry that label. Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that differing views on the problems of the Austraiian economy by many of his Ministers and disagreement within Caucus have increased the confusion and added to the lack of confidence apparent in the Australian community? Will the Prime Minister concede that announcements made at Premiers Conferences, mini-Budgets and ad hoc decisions have given an impression of fragmentation and not consistency which he spoke about in the House yesterday? Will he inform me whether in his view progress can be made in future Caucus and Cabinet meetings on an overall policy for the Australian economy which his Cabinet can agree with and Caucus will support? If so, will the honourable gentleman inform the House whether he, as head of Government, will announce it as soon as possible? 

 - Mr Chairman, 3 times this Bill has been debated in this chamber and in the Senate. Now we are having a Joint Sitting after a double dissolution which saw the Government's majority in the House of Representatives halved. The Government also failed to gain control of the Senate. We now have a contemporary Parliament. I well remember the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  rushing into this chamber saying: 'What we need is a contemporary Parliament.' Ever since we have had it he has been complaining so much about it and so often. Why is the Labor Government so persistent about this Bill? Determined after the election of 1972, the Government has now become desperate. For it this Bill represents a matter of survival. Without electorates drawn in its favour the Government has no chance of winning another election. With electorates drawn in its favour the Government recognises that it has some chance. Labor recognises the electoral climate brought about by raging inflation, rampant industrial unrest, a divided Cabinet, a mutinous Caucus, confusion and a lack of confidence throughout the community, fragmentation in both policy and the Party, and sees the need to do something pretty badly. The really historic thing about this Bill is that the Labor Caucus agrees on it. I think it is about the only Bill that has come before the Parliament on which all members of the Caucus have actually agreed. 
I want to make my personal position quite clear. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  referred to me this morning. I have consistently said over the 10 years that I have been involved in organisational politics that I believe in electoral justice and I believe in electoral equality, as do the majority of Australians, but they need to be implemented with a degree of tolerance and flexibility. The Minister referred to statements I made when, as  President  of the Liberal Party in Queensland, I spoke of a Bill which, incidentally, was defeated in the Queensland Parliament. The quote was accurate. Given those same circumstances I would say the same things again. I extend a public invitation to the Minister or anybody else in the Labor Government who wants to come to Queensland and have a debate about electoral redistributions in that State. There is a first-class invitation which I have issued because Labor's history in electoral redistributions in government is shameful. 
The present Act has been law since Federation. Some amendments were made in 1965 and they, in my view, were desirable. We have had 6 redistributions between 1912 and 1968 covering 25 elections. With one exception the party that got the majority of votes formed the Government, and that is the real test. Indeed, at the last election on 18 May I thought the Labor Government was pretty lucky because with less than 50 per cent of the vote it got about 52 per cent of the number of seats. Certainly there have been some imbalances but overall the history of this Parliament has been good and the record fair. I want to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  who referred to a court decision in the United States of America. My memory of that decision is that it certainly upheld that there should be electoral justice and it agreed to the necessity for tolerance. We ought to compare our record not only with that of the United States of America but also with that of Canada, Britain and France. 
This Bill is the brainchild of the Minister for Services and Property. Of course I can understand that in Opposition- particularly for the number of years he spent in it -a degree of frustration overcomes anybody. Some people in periods of frustration and adversity can enrich their souls. It is a shame that this particular Minister, with the discomfort of being in Opposition, has become very bitter about electoral affairs and this is blinding him to any sense of fair play. He postures in a prepared speech: 'We want to be fair, open, just and reasonable.' But in an unguarded comment in a television interview, smiling happily on his return from Canada, he said: 'We want to give the Country Party as many heart attacks as possible. ' What he is really about is to reduce any form of fairness in respect of rural representation. I know that on 18 May there were some fatal heart attacks but not within the Country Party. And the Minister well knows that there are more to come unless he can juggle the electorate boundaries. What does the Government want to do? It wants to reduce the tolerance allowed above or below the quota from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. It would mean constant redistributions. It would, of course, mean more seats in the large capital cities. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  represents a very small capital city seat in Sydney. But we in the Australian Parliament are interested in representation of the entire nation and not just the big capital cities of this country. 
Professional advice to the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was that we need 20 per cent variation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a moment of frankness- he has them from time to time but they are becoming infrequent- said that there ought to be a 20 per cent tolerance. It is quite false to claim now that we must have that percentage reduced in order to achieve electoral equality. To be perfectly honest, if we want to achieve electoral equality we need a tolerance of greater than 10 per cent for areas of growth. We cannot achieve electoral equality for areas of growth on a 10 per cent basis. In addition, the Government wants to alter the criteria to be applied by distribution commissioners. It is all right to keep community of interest- economic, social and regional; it is all right to keep means of communication, travel, physical features and trends in population changes. But the Government wants to delete any reference in the criteria to be applied by the commissioners to disabilities caused by remoteness through distance or density or sparsity of population, or areas of a division. They might have been put there in 1965. In my view they should have been there before. 
What we need in this vast continent are greater facilities for members to carry out their responsibilities. The need for those criteria will diminish as the years go by but they are certainly needed in present day Australia. To suggest that the tolerance be reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent and that we should alter the criteria the commissioners work under to satisfy electoral equality, will offend the commonsense- it does in fact offend the commonsense- of the Australian electors. There is one other good reason for retaining the present tolerance which I hope the Government will consider. The Government wants this Bill passed so that it can rush into a redistribution which it knows can be of value for only one election, with all the instability and problems that will bring upon us. There has to be a census in 1976, and if we can believe the Bureau of Statistics with regard to population trends, after that census there will need to be a reapportionment of the number of electorates in the various States. I am pleased to see that Queensland is likely to get an extra seat as is Western Australia and New South Wales is likely to lose one. Why distort the entire electoral map for just one short election? 
I appeal to the Labor Government to forget this obsession about changing the electoral laws which have stood the test of time. It will not fool the nation by this approach. The Government won the last election and it was told to get on with the job of facing the really big issues that are concerning this country. That is what this Government ought to be spending its time doing- facing up to the really vital issues. The Australian electorate is not likely to forget, nor will it forget at the next election, a Government which was so determined to get legislation through to redraw boundaries in its own electoral favour. 
In order to get this Budget debate into some sort of context it is important to go back to when the Labor Government came into office at the end of 1972. It inherited an economy which was buoyant and healthy, with an inflation rate of less than 5 per cent, which was about the average that had occurred during the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. Employment opportunities, after difficulties in 1971 and early 1972, were substantial. National overseas credits were in first class order, productivity was lifting, and national expectations were so high that had the Liberal-Country Party Government continued we could have looked forward to a golden decade. Indeed, the national economy was in a position in which it could insulate the nation against problems that were emerging throughout the world. We are aware that there are inflationary problems in many countries and particularly amongst our trading partners, but we were in a position substantially to insulate ourselves, even though we could not isolate ourselves from those problems. 
Of course we saw at the end of 1972 a stage production and a slick campaign, and the Labor Government came into office. A small majority of Australians, but apparently enough, decided to run the risk of accepting a superficial appeal that perhaps it was time for a change. After 23 years of security a small number of Australians apparently forgot that in the Labor platform, with high priority, is the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. Well they know today that that is very important in Labor's tenets and platform. We did not have to wait very long to see signs of Labor's dangerous experiments. First of all we had an upward revaluation of the currency, and that of course led to a decision that occurred only a few weeks ago. We saw an across the board cut in tariffs. Nobody on the Liberal-Country Party side of this House argues that we can isolate ourselves from world trade. Nobody argues that we can take a completely independent line. We are part of the world trading pattern, but the manner in which these tariffs cuts occurred, without any selectivity at all, has caused a tremendous problem in many of the key industries within this nation. If ever a problem emerged, of course Labor's answer to it was: 'Let us set up another bureaucratic machine'. So we saw the establishment of a tremendous number of commissions and committees and a substantial increase in the Public Service. The disintegration of the sound economic base of Australia started very early in January 1973. 
We move towards the 1973 Budget. We cannot look at the 1974 Budget without recognising the dangerous decisions that were implemented in the 1973 Budget. At a time when restraint ought to have been shown by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  we had a Budget which increased government expenditure by nearly $2,000m. Taxation was increased, particularly for private companies. Investment allowances and incentives diminished and decreased. All industries were affected adversely- the manufacturing, mining and rural industries- and Labor, of course, selected the rural industries for a particularly severe belt. Labor's obsession with socialisation led to an irresponsible Budget in 1973. Of course when the Government showed no restraint a year or so ago what did it expect the trade union movement to do? We saw wage demands sought by militant trade unions which used their muscle to hold the nation to ransom. Leading Ministers of the Government encouraged militant trade unions in their demands for excess wages without any regard for the nation's capacity to pay and without any regard for productivity. We saw a tremendous increase in industrial disputes. Can anybody forget during the slick campaign of 1972 the then Opposition saying: 'We have some industrial disturbance within Australia but put us into government; we understand the trade union movement. It is the base of our Party. We will be able to negotiate and consult with them. There will be a greater degree of industrial peace. ' 
That is what he,  Mr Whitlam  and a lot of leading members of the then Opposition said. Everybody knows that there has been increasing industrial disputation with great cost to the nation. The system of conciliation and arbitration has been undermined. Is it any wonder that the economy started to slide pretty heavily towards the end of 1973 and even more so as we moved into 1974? Not long after a year in office inflation officially hit a rate of 14 per cent, which was 3 times the rate that occurred when the Government came into office. Any businessman will admit that the actual rate was not 14 per cent but, because of the huge wage demands and increases, was closer to 20 per cent as we moved into 1974. Employment opportunities were fewer. That is the kindest way I can describe the circumstances of earlier this year. Overseas reserves were starting to diminish at an alarming rate and by stealth a credit squeeze was emerging because of this Government's attitude through the Reserve Bank to the trading banks. Interest rates started to climb. On top of this there was a worsening problem in the Western democracies with regard to the liquidity of the oil crisis. This Government's policies made sure that exploration for oil had substantially diminished throughout this nation. 
From a position of confidence in 1972 we moved to uneasiness in 1973 and a very real need for concern by 1974. It will be remembered only too well that the Opposition at that time consistently warned the Government of the dangers ahead of it. It consistently warned the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  his Treasurer and his leading Ministers that they were heading this nation for economic disaster. Policies which were espoused consistently by the Opposition were ignored and in the end we had to take a vital decision and so an election was forced in May of this year because the nation realised and the Opposition realised the dangerous trends that were occurring. In the May election we again saw false claims- deceitful claims- by the Prime Minister and his Ministers. Will the nation ever forget during the May election the Prime Minister saying: 'It appears as if we are starting to get on top of our problems. The inflation rate is slowing down. Do not take any notice of the Opposition. Everything is going to be all right. Employment opportunities will grow again and productivity will be up. Let us be confident.' That is what the Prime Minister said. Regrettably- this time a much smaller number of Australians decided to trust him- the Labor Party scraped home with a very narrow majority. Its majority was substantially reduced in this chamber and it failed to gain a majority in the Senate. I hope the Prime Minister will remember that we now have a contemporary Parliament. He spoke about this matter before the last election. He was then terribly concerned that some members of the Senate had been elected some years before. He wanted a contemporary Parliament. He now has one and I hope he does not complain if that contemporary Parliament arrives at decisions which are not to his liking at some time in the future. 
One would have thought that after the May elections a rebuked Government would have sensed and learned something from the electorate warning, but this was not so. We came back after the last elections to find the Government preoccupied with its socialist health Bills- we all know the problems they are creating within the medical and nursing professions- and obsessed with its electoral Bills because what the Government wants to do is get electorate redistributions through so that it can continue its havoc with the Australian economy somewhat less impaired than it is now. Can anybody forget the statements, not just by the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Treasurer, but right down the line with Minister after Minister as we moved towards the Budget of 1974, starting to give their ideas as to how inflation would be handled? Even the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  decided to throw in his little prescription for it. Divisive and divided government was so obvious as we moved towards the Budget of this year. 
Let us consider the background of the documents which the Treasurer tabled in the House a few weeks ago. Inflation is now moving at 20 per cent and, regrettably, is certain to get worse. Unemployment problems are increasing so much that we now have the highest rate of unemployment for almost 30 years. It is likely to get worse. I have deep concern for the educated young people who will be leaving school later this year. Our overseas reserves are being diminished so substantially that this nation will get back to having a balance of payments problem within 12 to 18 months. Is it not regrettable that after all the problems of the 1940s and 1950s and with the golden 1960s when we were able to build up our overseas credits, through the policies of this Government we should now be facing a balance of payments within 18 months on top of all the internal domestic problems we have? Interest rates are the highest they have been in Australia for decades. There has been a severe impact upon housing. How many people today can afford a house even if finance is available to them? This Government's policy has ensured that the average Australian on an average income cannot become a home owner in his lifetime. It is an indictment of this Government to have managed to have achieved this situation in le$s than 20 months in office. 
-One gets that impression. One gets the impression that if the Budget of 1973 was irresponsible, the Budget of 1974 was wicked, and regrettably wilfully wicked from the viewpoint of some members of the Government. 
-I do not like to think of this Government introducing a Budget next year. One hopes that the 1975 Budget will be introduced by a government different from this one. We have seen an increase of government expenditure- not $2,000m which we saw in 1973- to $4,000m. Government expenditure is getting bigger and better even as our inflationary rate grows. The Budget documents indicate that wages will increase by more than 20 per cent and productivity by only 2 per cent. Is that a prescription for growth? It is a prescription for disaster. The private sector is bashed again but this time not only industry is affected. It is a personal type of bashing. The surcharge on so-called unearned income is one of the unfairest pieces of legislation any government could consider. It is iniquitous. I am pleased that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and Opposition spokesmen have made it perfectly clear that in government the Opposition would not have a bar of it. It is not unearned income. If the average Australian saves money to invest, the income from that money is earned as much as any income from personal exertion. 
Tax deductions for education are being substantially diminished. The Government wants to take away from many parents the right to choose to send their children to private schools. A lot of people- not wealthy people- make sacrifices in order that their children can attend independent schools. This Government is determined to make it difficult for church and independent schools to survive. 
I refer also to the capital gains tax. We have yet to hear all about it. There is only one thing for sure and that is that what has been told to us by now will ensure increased penalties for people at death. This is the socialist way. This is, of course, the destructive way. Is it any wonder there was an uneasiness in 1973, concern in 1974 and now just plain fear by the electorate as to what this Government can do next? 
The honourable member for Wilmot may interject. I imagine that at the Caucus meeting tomorrow morning- when the Labor Party members are let loose- there will be more interjectors than are here now. Dangerous experiments have become disastrous policies. Of course Government supporters are sensing it. They go home to their electorates knowing that time is running out. The Caucus has become mutinous and is now trying to take over the Government. Relations are strained so much between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Ministers and the supporters of the Government that indeed the Labor Government is virtually at breaking point. The Prime Minister heads off overseas after insulting his own colleagues; the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  who is not of much consequence anyway in economic affairs, goes abroad; the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  goes to see his great friends in China. The nation is left leaderless and confidence is further sapped and eroded. What an achievement in 20 short months. I cannot grasp the lack of commonsense by Labor members. 
There are a number of reforms which are desirable and which we would all want to see achieved. But surely Labor Party members can accept that if there are to be reforms they have to be paid for. Why does the Government detract from private enterprise that generates the real wealth of this community and make it impossible for productivity to enable any government to finance sensibly and without inflation desirable reforms? Initiative should be encouraged. Is it any wonder that the Leader of the Opposition moved the amendment that he did?. This Government needs to take action to restrain its own spending, to throw out the iniquitous surcharge on so-called unearned income, to restore the deductions for taxation purposes for education expenses, to show some strength with the trade unions and to uphold the conciliation and arbitration system. For heavens sake, get the productivity of this nation up. A rate of 2 per cent will not see any substantial growth. Encourage industry, encourage private enterprise and learn to live with it. Do not try to kill it. Restore some sort of confidence in government by the community. If the Labor Government does not take the action which will be necessary then in my view- this is a personal view- the amendment does not go far enough. If the economy continues to drift in the way it has for 20 months my view and my wish would be that the Opposition may well find it necessary to take more drastic action to force upon this Government the simple true facts of economic life. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the fact that the Premier of Queensland yesterday announced that an election would be held in that State on 7 December and that amongst other things he said that Queenslanders could register their shock, apprehension and dismay concerning policies of the Federal Government. Will the Prime Minister take an active part in the campaign, whether he is encouraged to do so or not? Will he state clearly his attitude to Federal-State relations? Will he encourage his Treasurer to take part in the campaign and explain how much higher than the rate of 20 per cent of the September quarter he thinks inflation may be in the December quarter? Will he encourage his Minister for Labor to go to Queensland where 30,000 people are now unemployed and tell Queenslanders just how much worse unemployment is likely to get? Will he encourage his Minister for Minerals and Energy to go to Queensland and spell out his policies if he has cleared them with the Cabinet by the time of the Queensland election? Will he ask his Minister for Defence to go to Queensland and state his policy in a defence-conscious State? 
One of the departments under discussion is the Department of Social Security. Of course, there is no argument amongst members of the Parliament as to the need for social reform. Change and improvement are both desirable and necessary. It is regrettable that we do not hear more objective comments by members of the Government Party. It is reasonable to say that the history of the Australian nation has been one of constant social improvement. It is quite fair to claim that Liberal-Country Party governments have made a massive contribution to that change. When we look at the present estimates and the present policy of this Government we can applaud, as we all do, the improvement in assistance for handicapped children, particularly when it will help them to remain at home. Nobody will quarrel with improvements and increased expenditure for any disadvantaged section of the Australian community. In regard to the care for the aged, the doubling of the building subsidy is desirable. It is to be hoped that this encourages many sections of the community to assist. 
Meals on Wheels is a service which all of us applaud. It is particularly important in the context of the community because it involves the community. Every member who has Meals on Wheels organisations within his or her electorate knows the value of not only the meal just for itself but also the very real social contact that the service brings. All of us would wish to congratulate the many hundreds and thousands of Australians who voluntarily assist in this regard. I was very sorry to hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  read a long list of statistics and figures with regard to pension rates. 
It is this Government's policy for pensions to reach 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I put it to the Government that pensions are not at that stage now. While inflation continues to run at over 20 per cent in Australia, the Government will never reach that percentage in real terms. While there is massive inflation in a country, social imbalances will continue and accelerate. 
We talk of a social security allocation in the Budget of a little more than 20 per cent. The Government makes play on the fact that it has increased expenditure by $ 1,000m. It is not by how much the expenditure is increased that is important. Whether one is running a nation or a company, it is value for money that is important. It is quite ridiculous to measure improvement simply by the amount of money allocated for it. I simply say to the Government- I do not want to get into the detail of a lot of the estimates- that if it wants to see the Department of Social Security make the sort of contribution that it ought to be able to make to the Australian community the Government should get the economy of this country soundly based. What I find tremendously difficult and frustrating is the inability of Labor members to accept the simple fact of life- to me it is one of common sense- that if they want to have social reform and to be able to afford social reform the nation has to have the capacity to pay. The way for it to have a capacity to pay is to have the private sector of the economy doing well. It is the private sector of the economy that generates the real wealth. Therefore if one wants to have a social security program that is desirable, if one wants to have the money provided in the Estimates really producing results, one should seek to have full employment with a stable economy. One should seek to have productivity so that people earn wages and pay taxes and companies do well and pay taxes, because in the end result unless the private sector of the economy is doing well one cannot have the social reforms we would all wish to see. 
We do not want to see a complete downgrading of incentive in Australia. People want to have social security but they also want to have the satisfaction of contributing themselves. They want to have the satisfaction of saving for themselves. We do not want to get to a stage where we have massive increases in social security because we have a system in which people are unable to develop thrift, to save and to plan for their own future. Real improvements in standards have to be achieved by a balanced economy. I would hope the Government would turn its mind not so much to being proud of increasing its Budget from $ 10,000m to $ 12,000m and this year from 
S 12,000m to $ 16,000m, claiming it is doing a job because it has increased the social security budget by $ 1 ,000m. That is not the test; the test is the real improvement in standards in Australia. Regrettably, the management of the Australian economy today is such that real improvement in living standards  is  not occurring and we will see a continual erosion until this Government accepts that hand in hand with social reforms goes the capacity to pay, and the capacity to pay is dependent upon the nation's productivity, the nation's capacity for full employment in a stable and growing economy. 
It is obvious that the Government does not take this matter of public importance very seriously. Had it done so it would not have had the honourable members for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  debating it. Interestingly enough, even though a quorum was called the 3 principal architects of deprivation and dislocation- interesting words in a matter of public importance raised by a Government supporter because if any government should recognise its ability to deprive the average Australian of the possibility of work and improved standards of living and dislocate the Australian economy it is this Government- the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  did not bother to come into the chamber. The Prime Minister no doubt was busy planning his latest jaunt at enormous expense to the nation; the Minister for Overseas Trade no doubt was trying to find out what has been going on in the past couple of weeks while he was away- is he to be Treasurer in the next day or two or has the 'Save Frank Crean Committee' been able to stave off the day?- and the Treasurer probably decided that the best thing was for him to lose interest because his days are numbered even if he survives in the short term. 
This Government has achieved a record in inflation, unemployment and a lack of confidence in the Australian community. In less than 2 years a prosperous, developing country has been brought to near disaster. At the end of 1 972 inflation was below 5 per cent; less than 2 years later it is more than 20 per cent. At the end of 1972 employment opportunities were growing and developing; today the nation is facing, at the very least, a quarter of a million unemployed by the end of January and a situation likely to be substantially worse. Of course, all this started within days of Labor achieving office. We had the heady days of revaluation and of tariff cuts, of bringing in the 1973 Budget with continued business bashing and of increasing government expenditure in 1973. When, at that time, it was obvious there was a need for restraint, Government expenditure was increased from $ 10,000m to $12,000m. What was the result of the 1973 Budget as we moved into 1974? There was rapidly growing inflation, substantial unemployment and a large credit squeeze which the Government was able to bide by deceit during the 1974 election. So, extraordinarily, we moved to the first Budget of 1974-the September Budgetin which expenditure was increased from $12,000m to $ 16,000m and the Treasurer was saying: 'We are going to increase public expenditure because there is a slack in the private sector of the economy'. 
Within a few short weeks of this infamous September Budget we had figures revealing that by the end of October there were 1 90,000 unemployed in Australia and inflation was running at more than 20 per cent. This was within a few weeks of that first Budget. We then saw the second Budget- that is, if these proposals can be referred to by that title. As the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said, it was the retreat from Moscow. It suddenly dawned on the socialists that if they want social reform and if they want to afford to pay for it they must have the private sector doing very well. That section of the Australian community which generates the real wealth must be doing well in order to pay taxes. We saw the Government, from the Prime Minister downand apparently in a speech yesterday even the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)-  appreciating the significance of private enterprise. What has the Labor Government done since it has proved itself completely unable to manage the economy? It has looked naturally to the Liberal policies that have been enunciated for months previously by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and his senior colleagues. The Government stole those Liberal policies and reduced both personal and company taxation by approximately the amount that had been recommended for some time by the Opposition. It moved to try to get some impetus back into the housing industry. How serious the situation is in the housing industry in all States, particularly in Queensland! This Government has taken panic decisions to head off what will be a undesirable desirable result in the State elections. The credit squeeze was lifted. The Prices Justification Tribunal was asked: Please take into account a company's profitability. It dawned upon the Government that it is important that companies must make profits and must return an adequate dividend on the capital that is empowered. We found in the second Budget that the estimated domestic deficit had gone to $ 1,300m, but the Government just cannot look at things month by month as it has been doing now for nearly 24 months. There is a future to be taken care of. I do not think it will be the responsibility of this Government because it will not be in Government again to produce another Budget unless it produces another one in the early months of next year. Having now grasped the significance of private enterprise surely this Government can appreciate that if you wish to have substantial employment and a substantial economy, you must contain inflation. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  mentioned that the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference, the Treasurer in his July miniBudget and  Dr Cairns  in July all spoke of the need for Government restraint. The survey of Australia of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development states: 
The available evidence suggests that the change in the rate of inflation has been the greatest in those countries where the growth rate in the share of public expenditure has been most rapid. 
Surely this is a simple lesson that this Government can learn. I suggest to honourable members opposite that they read the report of the Committee for Economic Development of Australia, entitled 'The Control of Inflation.' They would get some desirable assistance from it. In an editorial after the last Budget the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' stated: 
The Government which is appealing to all for incomes restraint- for self-denial, tax cuts notwithstanding- itself absolutely refuses to exercise any restraint whatever in a spending program. The medicine being prescribed as sauce for the electoral goose is to be spared the Canberra gander. This is worse than inequitable. It is inflationary lunacy. 
The Government and its speakers have misrepresented the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  He referred to the increase in growth in Government expenditure being 25 per cent, not 32.4 per cent. That is a reduction of 5.5 per cent, not an across the board reduction of 8 per cent. The Australian nation will not take lightly the continual misrepresentation of this matter. There are substantial areas where Government expenditure could be cut. One could look at the Petroleum and Minerals Authority decisions. One could look at the Pipeline Authority decisions. One could start with the extravagance and management of so many sections of the Australian Government. The Government has ruined the economy, so at enormous expense it is trying now- I think not very successfully- to introduce regional employment development schemes, assistance schemes and national employment and training schemes. An army of public servants is running all over the country, to the backblocks of every electorate, trying to talk to local authorities and trying to explain to local authorities what all these massive schemes are. Having now grasped the significance of private enterprise those opposite should try to learn something about management and about stopping extravagance and looseness in the Australian economic community. When demand inflation picks up next year and the Government is forced to steal this last Liberal policy it should have the courage and the honesty to admit it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. It follows the question asked earlier by the honourable member for Griffith concerning the invitation extended to the Prime Minister to open the new stand at the Brisbane Cricket Ground. I ask: Will the Prime Minister be good enough to make inquiries as to the manner in which this invitation was extended to him? Will he find out whether it is correct that no member of the Queensland Cricket Association executive was informed of this invitation or has received an invitation to it, and that  Sir Gordon  Chalk is in fact the only person who was officially invited by the executive to perform such a function? Will the Prime Minister find out whether the person who has invited him has attempted to use improperly the prestigious office of the Prime Minister? If his inquiries lead him to that conclusion will the Prime Minister indicate to the person who has invited him that he will not attend and have his office used in this manner during a State election campaign? 
This evening we are discussing 3 Billsthe Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill, the Queensland Grant (Clare Weir) Bill and the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill. The Opposition supports all 3 Bills. We welcome the fact that the Government has seen fit to bring these Bills on for debate this week. I must admit that I am wondering whether, if there had not been an election in Queensland soon, these Bills would have been given precedence over all the hotchpotch of proposed legislation which has flown out of the Labor Government's maladministration of the Australian economy. However, they are before us today. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who is at the table and whom I have known well for years, is a Queenslander. He is a rugged Queenslander. I hope that he will get a degree of satisfaction out of the measures which we are discussing tonight. 
I suppose the richness of the State of Queensland is gradually dawning upon members of the Australian Labor Party. Enormous potential for growth in both resources development and population is possessed by this large and outstanding State. It has the ability to contribute to the overseas earnings of Australia. When the Labor Government came to office not quite 2 years ago we had substantial overseas credit. It inherited a very healthy economy, including substantial overseas credits. But what damage it has been able to wreak upon them in just 2 short years. We are now getting back to the problems we had before 1960. A balance of payments problem will be facing this nation as well as the problems of unemployment and inflation if the Labor Government does not grasp the significance of overseas earnings. Of course, the development of the richness of central Queensland can help enormously in this respect. I am pleased to see that areas like Bundaberg, Proserpine and the Burdekin have been included in these measures. When one talks about decentralisation one should not be so concerned about grandiose schemes like Albury- Wodonga; one needs to be concerned about areas which have shown potential and which have been known for decades to have potential. As with many other things, the Labor Government has been rather slow to recognise this simple fact of life. 
The Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill provides for the allocation of an additional $4.4m for the completion of certain works to the first stage of the Bundaberg irrigation program. The original Act of 1970 allocated $ 12.8m. Of course, with the increases in the cost of materials and manpower an additional $4. 4m has to be allocated to cover this initial stage. This irrigation project is just as significant to the Australian economy as it is to the Queensland economy because it is in a vast cane growing area. We are all aware of the tremendous world prices being obtained today for sugar. Sugar is significant not only to the world economy but also to the Queensland and Australian economy. This project not only will help the sugar industry and the cane growers but also will have an impact upon the urban development of the Bundaberg area and the growing industrial base of the region. 
The Government ought to realise and all Australians ought to realise that the reason for the introduction of this Bill is the substantial rate of inflation within the Australian economy. Let us examine the position in this respect. This additional finance would not have been needed if the Labor Government had been able to manage the economy. This Bill is simply designed to take up the necessary increase in cost caused by inflation. Let us again look at the Government's record in that respect. It came to office in December 1 972 with a rate of inflation of about 5 per cent in the Australian economy. Inflation is now running at 4 times at least- probably 5 times- that rate. That is another record of the Labor Government. It has achieved a record rate of inflation just as it has achieved a record rate of unemployment. It is amazing to me how long it has taken the Government to learn a few simple facts of life. It has gradually dawned on the Government that wage demands, which it militantly supported in the early days of its taking office by having the Public Service as a pacesetter and by allowing some of its Ministers, people who ought to be responsible in government, to encourage militant trade unions to use their muscle in their wage demands, are one of the reasons why this Bill is before us. This Bill provides for an increase of $4.4m in the expenditure on the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. 
I move on to the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill. It seeks to provide for a much smaller amount- $120,000. In his second reading speech the Minister for Northern Development said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable a grant of up to $120,000 to be made available to Queensland for the construction of urgently needed flood mitigation works on the Proserpine River. The grant is conditional upon matching expenditure being provided by the Queensland Government and the Proserpine River Improvement Trust on the basis of 40 per cent Federal, 40 per cent State and 20 per cent local authority contributions and is consistent with the Government '5 overall approach to the problem of flood mitigation. 
Fine words. Nobody can argue with them. I wish the Minister could have more success in convincing his Cabinet and Caucus colleagues of the importance of flood mitigation right throughout the State of Queensland- indeed right throughout the Australian nation. 
The Minister mentioned the floods of 1974 and the need for flood mitigation schemes. Of course, such schemes are necessary not only in the Proserpine area; they are necessary also in central and northern Queensland. Look at the havoc created by the January 1974 floods in the city of Brisbane. In my own electorate of McPherson nearly 2,300 homes were inundated. The need for flood mitigation works goes far beyond this Bill. The principle provided for in the Bill of 40 per cent Federal, 40 per cent State and 20 per cent local authority contribution is desirable, but the amount of money involved in this instance is not large and its provision should be extended. The Gold Coast City Council, which is in my electorate, has put flood mitigation schemes to the Government only to have them rejected time and time again by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and almost every significant Labor Minister. We want to see the share of responsibility accepted by the Federal Government extended far beyond Proserpine. We want to see it extended right throughout Queensland, to the benefit not only of the people but also of the resources and property of the State. 
The third Bill with which we are dealing is the Queensland Grant (Clare Weir) Bill, which seeks the allocation of $3m initially for the beginning of what I hope one day will be a very great scheme on the Burdekin River. We are all aware that the Burdekin River is one of the great underdeveloped water resources of the Australian nation. As was pointed out by the Minister in his second reading speech there are vast flood plains in that area which have great potential for agricultural development. The Clare Weir scheme has prospects for flood mitigation which are desirable. It is not being developed for agricultural purposes only. It will be of long term benefit for the generation of power. If we are to have a growing industrial base we must have power resources available to us. It is the beginning of what I hope will be a substantial and successful development of the Burdekin area in northern Queensland. I wish to quote again from the Minister's second reading speech. In referring to the State of Queensland he said: 
Clare Weir represents the first significant step in a partnership with the State in the development of the Burdekin Basin. 
This is where trouble has occurred between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government. There should not be conflict between the 2 Governments. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  continues to say- quite falsely in my view- that the Federal Government is being obstructed by the Queensland Government. The Queensland Government will co-operate with the Federal Government in anything that is in the interest of the State of Queensland. But what we will not accept and what the Bjelke-Petersen and Chalk Government will not accept is domination and confrontation. It will not accept approaches by the Federal Government which are designed to take away the State's responsibilities. The Labor Government has to appreciate this fact. 
So far as the Queensland Government is concerned, no problem exists in relation to cooperation between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government. The Queensland Government's approach is that on any reasonable proposition it will co-operate with the Federal Government. If the Labor Government tries to dominate the Queensland Government and tries to take away from a constitutionally elected State government its constitutional rights then, of course, the Federal Government cannot expect to get co-operation. Honourable members will see- I notice the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  nods his head- on 7 December that the people of Queensland substantially support the point of view I have just stated. After all, the Government is dealing with a State government which has been in office since 1957 and which has a substantial majority. It is dealing with a State government that under 3 prestigous Premiers - 
-Sir Francis Nicklin, the late  Mr Pizzey  and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
There has been enormous growth and development in Queensland. If we compare the situation since 1957 with what happened under almost 30 years of Labor administration during which we struggled on with hardly any development at all, we see that in that 17 years of Country-Liberal Party Government there has been an explosion of growth. If the Federal Government had a Treasurer like  Sir Gordon  Chalk it would not be making changes within its Ministry, as is apparently going on within the Australian Government. If the Labor Party had somebody with the capacity to administer the economy of Australiasuch as  Sir Gordon  Chalk has administered the economy of Queensland- the Government would not have to be changing its mind about economic policies. 
The honourable member for Bowman interjects but I want to say to the Minister at the table that he ought to be careful because we have seen what has happened to the Minister for Defence one day, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs the next day, the Treasurer the next day, and so on. It might get down to the Minister for Northern Development one of these days. The Government might have a Cabinet reshuffle involving the Minister for Northern Development. 
I ask honourable members to examine the management of Queensland. I ask them to examine the Budget introduced recently by  Sir Gordon  Chalk. If they do so, they will see effective management of an economy, which is another lesson the Labor Government could learn. As I said earlier, these 3 Bills have the Opposition 's support. We regard them as desirable. After 2 years in office the Labor Party Government has grasped- only in the last couple of weeks- the significance of the fact that if it wants to have social reform the private sector of the economy has to be doing well. In 2 years the Labor Government has managed to find out that if it wants social reform someone has to pay for it. If the Labor Government is going to belt business and belt the private sector so that they lack profits and cannot pay taxes, there cannot be social reform. I accept that the Government has learnt that simple lesson. 
I ask honourable members opposite to address their minds to another aspect of this matter and to forget their obsession with centralism. Centralism will not work any more than will socialist objectives. The Government should try to accept that we have State governments. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I simply wanted, in referring to the cooperation between the Queensland Government and the Federal Government, to demonstrate that the Government could by co-operation with the Queensland Government, have an effective Australian Government. The Government should attempt to have co-operation with the States rather than attempt to have centralist domination. If the Government adopts this sort of approach I am sure that in the future it will have the greatest co-operation with the States and the Australian nation as a whole. If the Government takes this attitude it will deserve and will receive great credit and benefits from the resources and riches of the State of Queensland. 
The first question to ask oneself in a debate such as this is: 'Why the need for such sweeping changes?' I refer to them as changes. I do not choose the word 'reform' as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  apparently chooses. Of course, the purpose of the Bill is to make certain that any political association of political parties is registered. The legislation requires political parties to disclose the sources of their funds and limits their expenditure. Of course, this is a curious approach but I suppose one has to see it in the context of the Minister's career in his present portfolio. This is not the first reform' that he has introduced into this House. We had a Bill before us which sought to change the electoral laws with regard to redistribution of electoral boundaries. We are yet to judge the outcome of that legislation. The Minister introduced a Bill in respect of optional preferential voting. Does anyone suggest that optional preferential voting would not distort the result of a House of Representatives election? Such a system might not have much impact upon a Senate result but it would certainly have a vast impact upon a House of Representatives result. 
I have noticed that many of the changes, not only in respect of this legislation but also in respect of other legislation, have been proposed after a Minister and his colleagues have been on an around-the-world trip. This happened with respect to legislation dealing with trade practices, urban and regional development, and taxation. The iniquitous capital gains proposal came after a hurried trip around the world. No one objects to Ministers travelling overseas as long as they bring back something of value to this country. It seems to me that a trend is developing in which the most regressive forms of approach, all designed as part of a socialist objective, are being put forward by ministers after they have made trips around the world. I ask: Why have we this phobia about having to follow slavishly overseas countries? Surely within Australia we can identify our own problems and find almost all the solutions. The member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  said that although there is legislation of this kind in the United States of America, it can be got around. Of course there is a tremendous number of cases of corruption and malpractice in the United States and in other countries where they have had legislation of this type. When we go overseas to learn, let us bring back something of value, not just policy areas for us to follow slavishly. 
What is the justification or need for these sweeping changes in our electoral laws just now? The Australian Electoral Office enjoys a very desirable reputation. I am not aware of any concern within the community or within the parliamentary system throughout Australia of the need for sweeping changes. Of course there are some imperfections in the Electoral Act but these authoritarian, discriminatory policies which the Minister for Services and Property has brought into the House are completely unacceptable to us. The real problem today is not within the Australian electoral system; it is within the Australian economic system. Furthermore, Labor Party speakers concern me enormously when they continue to talk about malpractices in the electoral system. In the 2 years that I have been in this place I have heard Dorothy Dix questions addressed to the Minister- no doubt we will hear more of them- and we have heard innuendoes, inferences and accusations about malpractices. I do not think such talk does us any good as an institution. I do not believe it does the parliamentary institution or the profession of politics any real good to have these constant innuendoes and inferences. The honourable member for Port Adelaide said: 'I do not have a phobia about multinationals'. The fact of the matter is that the Labor Government has a phobia about multinationals. If the Government and its supporters continue to make these accusations it will be quite fair for us on this side of the House to look at the conscription of trade union funds and to look at some of the friends that this Government has made in communist countries. After all, the left wingers of the Labor Party have some very curious acquaintances and there is now evidence of Government liaison and co-operation with some of those countries. 
Nobody denies that private enterprise supports the Liberal Party and the Country Party. We give it all the support we can and we reflect its views in Parliament. Naturally it gives us its financial support. It took this Government 2 years to discover what private enterprise was all about. It was only in Terrigal a week or two ago that the Labor Party wrote acceptability of private enterprise into its conference record. It is natural that, apart from a few misguided people, the bulk of private enterprise support will come to those who intend to implement private enterprise policies and to provide a higher standard of living for Australians through that system. 
I do not want to go into the Bill in detail because we have been asked to reduce our time of speaking as a number of honourable members on both sides of the House want to contribute to the debate. However, I want to refer to a couple of details. The first is the requirement that all political parties or associations have to be registered. To me, that is an unacceptable invasion. It is too limiting on Australian society. People in this nation have every right to engage in political activity. If a conservation council wants to engage in political activity over an issue in its State or area it has every right to do so. This aspect of the Bill strikes at the very heart of democracy. It seems to me that probably the main thrust and the real long term intent of the Minister for Services and Property is to get a twoparty system. This brings his phobia in regard to the Country Party into proper relief. 
The second detail I am concerned about is the matter of fund raising and the need, in the mind of the Government, for all donations to be disclosed, whether at party level or at candidate level. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  indicated how ridiculous some of the proposals were. To my mind, this intrusion into privacy is unacceptable in Australian society today. Another provision of the Bill limits expenditure, and here we have a host of arbitrary rules and figures which are going to be placed on parties and candidates- if there is a House of Representatives election, if there is a separate Senate election, if they are both held together, if there is a double dissolution, or indeed if there is a referendum. They are very arbitrary rules and if they are broken substantial penalties are imposed by means of fines. This could lend itself to creating tremendous distress for righteous and very honourable members of the Australian community. 
We in the Opposition oppose the legislation. We oppose it on the ground that no evidence has been given by anybody- by the Minister or by any of the Labor speakers- which demonstrates that there is a need for such sweeping discriminatory and authoritarian changes, no evidence whatsoever. I should hope that the Government can get its priorities in order. This is not a major issue within Australia. There is no concern in the Australian community that there are malpractices within the parliamentary system. I am not aware that any concern has been expressed by the Australian community that political parties are dishonest. I should think that the average Australian would regard it as important to maintain his or her rights on the question of political affiliation and on the question of what contributions are made to help a candidate or a party. This Government ought to get its priorities in order. It is not the electoral system that needs reform; it is the Government's economic pOliCY Instead of spending some hours this afternoon on this debate we would have done better to spend the time discussing the tremendous problem of over 300 000 unemployed in Australia, a government which has still not recognised the need for new economic policies and the fact that continuing inflation is going to drain the resources and the growth of this country. I should hope that the Minister will give thought to having a second look at this Bill. If a Bill were introduced which sought to remove in a reasonable way some of the imperfections in the present Act then I am quite certain that the Opposition would support it, but the Bill in its present form is completely unacceptable to us, and of course it will meet its rightful fate in the other chamber. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Did the delegates from the Soviet Union move at the International Whaling Commission meeting in London, held on 24-28 June 1974, to increase the eligible size of sperm whales to be killed. 
If so, was  Mr Bollen,  as Australian Commissioner, primarily responsible for having this conservation oriented move stopped. 
Can the Minister say whether the Soviet delegation was prepared to vote at the meeting for the United States pro- posal for a zero quota on finback whales in the North Pacific Ocean. 
Was  Mr Bollen,  in close co-operation with the Japanese delegation, responsible for a quota of 275 finback whales being set for the North Pacific Ocean, on a grossly depleted stock of whales. 
I have had circulated in my name a proposed amendment to clause 19. It reads: 
Omit sub-clause ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-clause: 
1 ) The Council shall consist of- 
a Chairman; 
the Statistician; 
2 members chosen by the persons for the time being holding office as Deputy Australian Statisticians in each State from among their number; and 
such other members, being not less than 8 and not more than 20 in number, as the Minister determines. 
Originally the Opposition wanted to have the Bill amended in that respect because it was concerned about having inserted in the Bill the suggestion of the Crisp Committee that there be representation from the States. Subsequent to that proposed amendment being circulated the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has had circulated an amendment to which he has already referred. In view of the nature of the Government's amendment the Opposition will not pursue its amendment, but I would like to make it quite clear that the matter of the representation of the States is significant to the Opposition. The thrust of the Government's amendment is somewhat different from that of the Opposition, but the Opposition's main concern is to have representation from the States and the Government's amendment appears to be acceptable to the Opposition. We will, of course, talk with the States about this matter and take appropriate steps in another place if any concern is expressed by the States. But, because of the initiative taken by the Government following the circulation of the Opposition 's amendment, I will not pursue the amendment circulated in my name. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics Bill 1975 is a significant one for Australia. All honourable members will appreciate the importance of having information available to the nation. It is in effect a very substantial national resource. Honourable members will recall the background for this Bill. In December 1973, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  set up a committee to look at the integration of data systems. So much of our information was spread among many departments of the Government, and the Prime Minister in setting up the Committee saw the desirability, as all honourable members do I believe, of having some integration of systems. That Committee under the chairmanship of Professor Crisp reported in April 1 974. 
In his second reading speech, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred to the position prior to and after the Second World War. He said: 
Prior to the war, statistical activity was directed towards the provision of basic statistics such as population, births and deaths, employment, manufacturing and agricultural production, oversea trade, and so on. 
After the war, the emphasis turned to the provision of a wider range of more frequent and up to date economic statistics and indicators such as retail sales, capital expenditure, oversea investment, building statistics, monthly production, balance of payments, considerable development in national accounts, labour force and unemployment, and many others. 
No one will quarrel with that statement of fact. 
The Crisp Committee recognised the deficiencies that had been created. That Committee discussed the major criticisms which it saw as a lack of co-ordination, inadequate consultation between dependent data systems, lack of compatibility between classifications and definitions, and so on. In summing up, the Crisp Committee had this to say: 
Present deficiencies in official data systems and statistical arrangements detract from the capacity of governments to pursue co-ordinated approaches in related areas of policy, reduce the community's scope for scrutinising these policies and for using official statistics with confidence in its own decision making. The deficiencies add to the public and private cost of maintaining official statistical services. 
Again, I do not think any honourable member will disagree with the Committee's summation. So this Bill comes before the House following that report. 
I refer again to the second reading speech by the Special Minister of State. He refers to the Bill as being introduced:  . . . in order to increase their effectiveness and relevance for modern conditions - 
He was referring to a number of fundamental changes in the organisation of our statistical services:  . . . and to strengthen further the guarantees of objectivity and impartiality of the Statistician. 
He continued: 
There is no need for me to argue the virtues of statistical information in providing a generally informed society; in providing a firm base for decision making in government, business and the rest of the community; in providing a basis for the development of programs and a means of measuring their progress over time. 
The Opposition is concerned that this Bill has been drawn up with a degree of haste. We are not convinced that its framework is sufficient for the requirements of today's Australia. We are very concerned that the matters of privacy have not been spelt out in this Bill. I have been informed by the Minister that there will be a further, larger Bill on this matter to come before the Parliament in the not too distant future. But we are concerned that, at this stage, there is no relevant clause in the Bill concerned with the maintenance of privacy. 
We are concerned also as we believe that the role of the Parliament is not fully secured, that vastly new initiatives will be taken in the gathering of information which will have an enormous effect on the Australian society, and we believe that Parliament ought to be kept informed as a decision is taken and told of activities related to it. Equally, we are concerned about the role of the States. The States, as the Minister will well know, have had a major role in the compilation of information through many decades. We are most concerned to spell out that the States, through the  Deputy  Statistician, will have a continuing and important role. 
As honourable members will be aware, this Bill sets up a statutory authority. Whilst we have some reservations about the number of statutory authorities that are being set up by the present Government, this authority will give a degree of objectivity and impartiality. Of course, it is tremendously important that the authority has that impartiality because it does not want to be too available to the whims or interests of any particular government. The Opposition is equally aware that there are substantial numbers of employees within the Bureau, and for that reason as well there could be merit in streamlining administration if it were given the independence and autonomy that go with a statutory authority. Equally, the Opposition accepts that the Statistician, with his tremendous responsibilities and rights, takes on a statutory position. The Bill spells out his tenure of office, with which we agree. It also provides that he will have roughly the same set of responsibilities and rights within Australia as the Commissioner of Taxation has. 
The functions of the Bureau were set out by the Special Minister of State in his second reading speech, when he stated that the Australian Bureau of Statistics would be a statutory body with the functions of a central statistical authority. He went on: 
In addition to existing functions relating to the collection, compilation, analysis and dissemination of statistics, this section provides also for the co-ordination of the statistical activities of other official bodies in the interests of avoiding duplication, attaining compatibility in statistical activities, achieving economies through the use of all available sources of data, achieving adherence to common standards in statistical work, providing statistical assistance and providing liaison with other countries and international organisations on statistical matters. 
Again, one could not quarrel with the words that have been used, but the Opposition would like to see the framework of this new body more defined. We accept that it is desirable to avoid duplication, that it could well be that there is a substantial degree of duplication amongst all the departments involved today in keeping records, but because of the lack of detail in this Bill the Opposition is not convinced that that problem necessarily will be overcome. The Liberal and Country Parties regard the knowledge of resources as a matter of supreme importance to the country; they would like to see the Bill go further. What is needed is a national information policy, and this Bill falls somewhat short of giving proper implementation to a national information policy. It falls short in not spelling out the administrative details that we would regard as helpful. It is not good enough to know only what your resources are, what the wealth of the nation is. How they are to be deployed and how they are to be used is also important. I want to emphasise particularly the importance of having a real measure of co-operation between the Government, research institutions and private industry. Unless we have that real spirit of co-operation we will not achieve the ultimate aim that is proposed in this measure. Not only does the Opposition want to see a proper administrative structure set up; it is also important for the Government to grasp that this is a job it has to do in association with research industries and with the whole breadth and depth of private industry generally. 
The Minister referred in his second reading speech to co-operation with other countries, and of course it is absolutely essential, when we bear in mind the development within Australia and the need for continuing development, to have technology and assistance available from overseas so that we can improve our own skills and productivity. I suggest to the Minister, since apparently this comes under his particular responsibility, that this co-operation should be seen in relationship with the Advisory Council through the Department of Science, of which his colleague the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  has just given the Parliament notice. There is a relationship, both internally and externally, with science and technology. 
As I mentioned earlier, one of the Opposition's main concerns is the question of privacy. The history of the Census and Statistics Act 1905-1973 goes back to the very early days of Federation, and the Opposition is aware that there are provisions in that Act relating to privacy, fidelity and secrecy. Of course, the Census and Statistics Act will continue in force until a further Bill is introduced into the Parliament at some future date. But because of the proliferation of programs that is to occur, we are unhappy about the present provisions and we want to look and will look very closely at the provisions for privacy when that new Bill is introduced. In this regard, I want to quote from pages 43 and 44 of the report of Professor Crisp's committee where the committee refers to concern about secrecy. The report states: 
The approach to secrecy suggested . . . would enable maximum use to be made of data consistent with preserving the essential confidentiality of information collected from individual persons or businesses. If adopted, it would substantially remove one of the principal and most commonly expressed objections to using centralised datasystems which was voiced in submissions to the Committee by departments and authorities ... 
Further on in the report the Crisp committee states: 
In a system of computerised data-bases, inbuilt technical facilities such as access-codes, security-locks and the like, should be developed to safeguard secrecy of information about individuals in terms of the legislation and guarantee the integrity of the data against systems-malfunction. Beyond this, however, the . . . organisation should be subjected to further rules and should follow procedures which the Committee believes are essential to the public acceptance of data-bases. 
That is what the Opposition is concerned about, and I am sure that subsequent speakers in the debate will stress the very real concern of the Opposition about this matter of privacy, bearing in mind the rights of the individual when looking at some of the suggested programs in almost all aspects of life that are recommended in the Crisp report. 
The Bill also sets up an Advisory Council to assist the Minister and the statutory authority, and again I want to refer to the Crisp report in regard to membership of this Advisory Council. Here again the Opposition has some concern, and I indicate to the Minister that an amendment will be moved to this Bill to give voice to the Opposition 's concern. The Advisory Council is to meet at least once a year and its purpose is to give the Minister advice as to what sort of programs the authority should be engaged in. Of course, it is only advice. In the end, the decision on what should occur will rest with the Government. As the Professor points out, the Committee believes that the membership of the Advisory Council should consist of an independent  Chairman,  the Statistician, 2 members of the Statisticians Conference- the body of all the  Deputy  Statisticians in Australia- a member appointed from within local government, 3 members from industry, commerce and finance, 3 members from employee unions, associations or councils, a member from a primary producing section of society, a member appointed from organised consumer interests, a member appointed from non-official social welfare organisations, somebody with statistical knowledge from within civil liberties organisations, somebody with a capacity for research in economic and social sciences, and another member with knowledge in research on communications, sciences and technologies. Again, this seems to us to be very desirable and the Minister has indicated to me that this would be the sort of advice that he would follow. But we will move an amendment in the Committee stage because it is not specific enough to ensure that the States are represented by at least two of the  Deputy  Australian Statisticians. I hope that since it is the Government's intention to do this, it will accept the amendment. 
Finally, I wish to refer to the report to Parliament. We are concerned that the Parliament ought to be advised of what decisions are taken as to what programs are likely to be entered into so that Parliament can voice its opinions on the decisions taken by both the Statistician and the Advisory Council. Again, to demonstrate our concern, I shall be moving an amendment in the Committee stage which will require those people or bodies to advise the Parliament as to what decisions have been reached so that we can have an informed view upon them. 
We believe that the Bill falls short of what the nation requires in regard to a national information policy. We believe that it does make some progress. There is obviously a need, if we are to have a developing and strong Australia, to have as much information as possible available to the Government and to industry generally. This Bill no doubt is moving in the right direction despite some of the reservations I have about it. Maybe if we had had more advice and information, we would not have had the wrong economic judgments and the wrong economic decisions made by the present Government which we have seen made over the past 2 years. I am not certain whether that really would be the case. Maybe the same bad decisions would have been made even though the Government could have had more advice available to it. But at least that might have avoided some of the massive errors of judgment and would have assisted in keeping inflation down to a somewhat lower level than it is at now, and certainly would have kept the unemployment figures down to somewhat less than the unacceptable figures which they are now. 
We have 2 amendments which will be moved later. We accept the main thrust of the Bill but we would have been much happier, and we believe a much more valuable debate would have occurred, had we had one larger Bill which contained more information and included provisions with regard to privacy. We are informed that that information will be made available. I hope the Minister might be prepared to indicate to the House to day when he intends to bring that Bill forward and that we will have an opportunity to debate it because, not only is it a matter of importance to the Government and to industry but, indeed, to the Australian nation and to all Australians. 
I move: 
After clause 6, insert the following new clause: '6a. Each new proposal for the collection and compilation by the Bureau of Statistics and related information shall be laid before each House of the Parliament before its implementation.'. 
I listened carefully to the comments of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and I have had an opportunity to have some personal discussions with him. We are, however, dealing with a statutory authority whose functions and responsibilities will be very broad. Not only in the Crisp report but also in the second reading speech of the Minister was it clearly indicated that there would very likely be a number of new initiatives taken and a lot of new areas in which information would be sought. I appreciate that maybe in all of those areas- certainly in the great majority of them- it would be desirable and in the interests of the nation and of the Parliament to have such information. We are dealing with tremendously increased complexity of legislation. 
The Minister has indicated that the Government is not prepared to accept this amendment. Basically, he claimed that the reason for the Government's inability to accept it was that there may be a need for urgency when Parliament is not sitting to make some information available. Valid though that comment may be, we are concerned about 2 aspects. The first concerns the maintenance of the role of the Parliament, bearing in mind that we are taking this operation out of departmental control and into a position of autonomy. The second matter concerns privacy as it might relate to any new initiative that was being considered by the Government, Whilst we agree to the autonomy of this Bureau- we accept the need for it for a number of reasons- we want to see the role of Parliament maintained. We believe that it would be in the interests of better government if proposed new clause 6a. were to be accepted. The Parliament has a right to know. Again, I appreciate that the Minister has informed us- and I accept his personal word- that he will keep the House informed. But we believe that it is desirable to have the House officially informed in this way so that a debate can occur if needed and the new initiative discussed in the general context of what is desirable both for the Parliament and for the nation. 
This is a rather simple and short Bill. It seeks to amend the Grants Commission Act 1 973. Before addressing myself to two or three of the major provisions of the Bill I remind the House that the history of the Grants Commission goes back to 1933. 1 believe it was introduced in the days of the Lyons Government. Its purpose was to assist the less populous States and to make certain that they could function at standards not appreciably below the standards of other States. To my knowledge, over the years the reports of the Grants Commission have never been rejected or refused and there is no doubt that the smaller States have obtained a great deal of assistance amounting to considerable sums of money over more than 40 years. 
The Grants Commission Bill was introduced in 1973. It is now the Grants Commission Act 1973. Its purpose was to allow local government authorities to appear before and obtain assistance from the Grants Commission. That was one of the policies of the Labor Party when in Opposition, and I am bound to observe that it was one of the reasons why the Labor Party achieved office at the end of 1972. It achieved office for other reasons as well, but that was one of them. Assistance was needed then and is needed now. All honourable members would agree that, when one looks at the trend in the availability of finance to various units of government in Australia, there is no doubt that finance made available to local government authorities to enable them to discharge their responsibilities has lagged behind that made available to both State and Federal governments. 
One of the purposes of this Bill is to increase from six to seven the number of members of the Commission. In his second reading speech the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  pointed out that the appointment of an additional member to the Local Government Division is necessary to relieve the work load of the four existing full time members, and I am well aware that the reasons stated for the appointment are accurate. The work load in this new section of the Grants Commission has been substantial. It has required a considerable amount of travel on the part of members of the Grants Commission. I am aware myself of the amount of travel that has been done throughout the State of Queensland and, indeed, my own electorate. Therefore it is obviously essential that we appoint sufficient people under the Act to discharge the duties that have to be undertaken. So the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
However, we wish to make one or two observations. We are concerned that what is proposed here is another indication of the sort of empire building that has been going on at the Federal level since Labor came into office in 1972. We have seen a great proliferation of committees and commissions, not only in the area of the Grants Commission but also in many other areas, such as education. We make the point that when we are returned to Government we will not continue with the same format which the Labor Government has adopted in relation to making money available to local government authorities. We accept that local government authorities come within the constitutional responsibility of State governments, that they are the children of State governments. Indeed, the method of assisting local government authorities which has been adopted by the Australian Government has come in for a great deal of criticism. The report of the Grants Commission has by no means been a happy one for all local government authorities throughout Australia. When returned to government we will see that assistance is given to local authorities so that they are able to maintain a standard which is not appreciably below that of the larger and better established local authorities. But we will set up such a mechanism within the States where decisions can be reached at a level which is much closer to the people affected. We believe that a better judgment will be ensured and that therefore a greater degree of acceptability, efficiency and effectiveness will result from the decisions reached. 
The Opposition is concerned about clause 3 (b) of the Bill. Its purpose is to give to the  Chairman  of the Commission who, immediately before his appointment, was a judge of a Federal court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, the same designation, rank, status and precedence as a judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. We wish to make a couple of observations in that regard. We are far from convinced that a judge is necessarily the best person to put in charge of a commission whose main responsibilities lie within the field of economics. The present Federal Government has chosen to appoint a judge to that position. The Opposition accepts the view that the person concerned should have the rank, status and precedence of a judge, but we do not accept that he should have the designation of a judge. I hope that honourable members realise that that is in no way meant to be a criticism of the present incumbent, but as a matter of principle and bearing in mind the number of commissions being set up by this Government we do not accept the fact that a judge who may accept such an appointment ought to continue to have that particular designation. I shall be moving at the appropriate time an amendment to delete the word 'designation' from clause 3 (b). 
The purpose of the other major provision in the Bill is simply to update the Grants Commission Act so that it falls into line with the Remuneration Tribunals Act. We accept that that is now desirable as the Remuneration Tribunals Act now deals with the remuneration to be paid to the holders of public offices. The existing remuneration provisions of the Grants Commission Act 1 973 are obsolete. So we accept and give our support to the updating of that particular section of the Grants Commission Act. The Bill has our support, but we will take the opportunity at the Committee stage to move the amendment that I have outlined. 
-Does the Minister for Labor and Immigration intend to intervene in the hearing of the metal trades claims now formally notified to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on which  Mr Justice  Moore has announced he will arbitrate? Does the Minister realise that what happens to wage rates in the metal industries award will be rapidly transmitted to every other award in the nation? Does he intend to intervene in the hearing of the Victorian Government's notification of its dispute with the metal trades unions lodged on Monday, 14 April? If he intends to intervene in either or both of those cases, is it the Government's intention to make submissions seeking wage and salary restraint? 
I move: 
In paragraph (b) omit 'designation'. 
I want the Committee to understand that the Opposition moves this amendment as a matter of principle. We believe it is desirable not to have conflicting approaches as to what is a judicial body, what is a commission or what is a body which has executive functions and responsibilities. We are aware that this Government and indeed future governments will be setting up a number of commissions and committees. We would like it to be known- I believe that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  already knows this from me- that our action is not in any way to be taken personally against the incumbent. However, it is our view that where a judge is appointed to be the  chairman  of this Commission, whilst we are quite happy that he should have the rank, status and precedence of a judge, we do not believe it is correct that he should have the designation. So the amendment is designed to omit the word 'designation'. It is simply a matter of principle- one, I am sure, that the Opposition will be following consistently in matters such as this now and when we are in government ourselves. 
We have just heard from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It does not do the honourable gentleman credit simply to select one of the two issues with respect to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation which suit his particular argument. Like the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  the remarks made by the Prime Minister sound plausible; they sound even acceptable; but he avoided the entire thrust and the . entire ideology upon which this Bill is based. 
The Prime Minister made no attempt to inform the Australian community that the insurance industry has made a creditable contribution to the Australian economy, with 45 life offices- many of them in a mutual capacity- and 260 general insurers. The industry provides a great deal of competition, a massive contribution to private investment throughout the country and indeed a valuable contribution to government and semi-government borrowings and financial requirements throughout the country. 
The Prime Minister spoke of natural disasters. I do not think that any honourable member for Queensland or New South Wales needs the Prime Minister to remind him of the tremendous loss of property which occurred in the recent floods in Queensland and northern New South Wales. We are all aware of the substantial damage caused by the recent cyclone in Darwin. This Bill is but a smokescreen to hide the real intent and real thrust of the Government. Of course we need to have some improvement in the capacity to cope with natural disasters in Australia, but has any consideration been given by the Government to discussions with the industry? Has the Government been prepared to study the New Zealand scheme in which there is a real relationship between the Government and the private insurance industry in that country? Has the Australian Labor Party Government been prepared to look at the experience in some of the States of the United States of America where a real spirit of co-operation betwen the private industry and the government has meant a very valuable cover for these types of disasters? Indeed this Government has found it very difficult to have any relationship with the industry other than in the last few weeks. 
I hope the nation understands that the real objective of the Bill is to implement the Labor Party's platform, part of which is the nationalisation of industry. One of the key industries which the Labor Government seeks to nationalise is the insurance industry. The Labor Party and the Prime Minister did not come clean before the 1972 election. The Labor Party and the Prime Minister did not come clean before the 1974 election. It is a shame that here tonight when the Bill is being discussed there is still not a member of the Labor Party who is prepared to come clean and tell the nation what is the real intent of this piece of legislation. Where will the funds be used? The funds will be used to finance the socialist objectives of this Government. Whether it is for the Australian Industry Development Corporation, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority or some other bureaucratic instrumentality which the Government has the capacity to think up, that is where the funds will be used. If they are not used there they will be used to try to gain some influence and control over private industry. 
When we talk about natural disasters I can think of nothing greater than the disaster of this Government having nominees on public companies throughout Australia. That is one of the intents of this legislation- more control and more Government nominees. Surely some reasonable members of the Labor Government will be prepared to study history in Australia, not only nationally but also in the States, where these sorts of public enterprises have rarely proved successful. In the main there have been substantial losses which have been paid for by the taxpayers of this country. Where is public support for this sort of corporation? Where is the cry from the public that we need it? All the indications are that there is a great deal of concern within the Australian community regarding this proposal of the Government. Not only people involved in that industry but also many other members of the community have demonstrated very clearly in the last few weeks that they are opposed to this intrusion into private enterprise. The Government should not underrate the concern. It will do so at its peril. It is very real, and the indications of the concern are there for all to see. 
In 1972 the Australian Labor Party inherited an economy full of confidence, a buoyant economy, a nation which looked forward to its destiny. In 1973 that spirit of confidence had moved into uneasiness. As we move into 1975, fear, distrust and despair have taken over the economic outlook for this country. Firms will not invest. One of the problems with employment opportunities in Australia today is that firms simply will not invest because they fear and distrust the Government. That is why capital investment is down. Will any honourable member opposite argue against the case that capital investment is substantially down? All this Bill will do is further erode that confidence. The retreat of Terrigal was but superficial. The ideology remains, and this Bill reflects it so well. Socialism versus free enterprise- that is what it is all about. That is how the Australian nation sees it and that is how the people will judge it. 
It is not only a question of socialism versus free enterprise. Is anybody in the Labor Government prepared to guarantee that the competition will be fair? We have heard comments and assurances from Ministers but will anybody remain convinced that this corporation, if it comes into being, will not receive assistance from government departments and that all the restrictions that are placed upon the private industry will be placed upon the corporation? The Opposition remains unconvinced, as indeed does the nation. The Labor Government will also be very unwise to overlook the fact that there happen to be 3 million insurance policy holders in this nation. They do not want experiments. They have had enough of the Government's experiments, because they realise how costly they have been. Most of the Government's experiments have led to inflation and unemployment. Inflation has already eroded the value of people's savings in the community and has eroded the value of their policies. There is a very deep awareness of that. The Government has not sought to keep deductions for insurance policies in line with inflationary costs. Because of the problems it has created, every policy holder in this nation has received smaller bonuses since Labor came into office. What any person looking for insurance in Australia can look forward to under Labor are smaller bonuses and increased premiums. Ask anybody. Ask any business man who has anything to do with private superannuation funds and the particular problems he has looking after valued and loyal employees because of the eroding of the value of private superannuation funds throughout the country. 
I wonder why we have to have this particular Bill on top of all the other problems the Government has created- problems with people financing homes, problems with people financing businesses. We now see that the Government wants to impede the future security of Australians. It continues to add disincentive and a state of despair throughout the community. Of course this particular piece of legislation cannot be seen just in isolation. It is not the only initiative the Government has in mind with regard to its socialist policies. One also has to look at this costly Bill in line with the compensation Bill and the superannuation Bill. The Prime Minister spoke about relieving the taxpayer. Who pays for Government expenditure other than the taxpayer? Who will foot the bill for this corporation with the losses it is bound to make and with the sort of nominees the Government will put in charge of it? It will be the taxpayer. 
There is no reason to believe that this corporation will be any more successful than any other venture which the Labor Government could undertake. I hope that responsible supporters of the Government will give some concern to the Budget which they will have to consider in Caucus within the next few months. The Opposition believes that if the Government goes ahead with this proposal- we will try to prevent it because we need time to study it- there will have to be an allocation in the Budget to set up the original capital for such a corporation. I suppose that really we should not be so surprised that this Bill has come before the Parliament because the Government has been weakening the industry in the last 2 Budgets by taking away some tax incentives for the insurance industry. When the Government takes them away from the mutual life offices it takes them away from Australians. So we have had this softening up process and now we are to have the increased burden in the 1975-76 Budget of yet another large bureaucratic office set up by this Government. 
One would hope that Government members would set that aside and that they would have some idea of priorities. One would hope that they would be concerned that their first problem to consider is inflation and that if they are to make some reasonable attempt to reduce the rate of inflation throughout Australia they have to look at their Government expenditure. The Government owes it to Australians not to have a continuing erosion of their savings in every form. The policies that the Australian people hold in the private insurance area are their savings. The Prime Minister answered a question this morning regarding employment opportunities. He said that the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation will give greater employment opportunities to people in the insurance industry. Apparently, he believes that the way to create greater employment opportunities is to transfer people from the private sector to the public sector, just as he mentioned in relation to Medibank. That is the way the Government creates employment opportunities. I will tell the Government what it must do if it wants to create employment opportunities: It will have to restore confidence, and if it wants to restore confidence it does not go ahead with headstrong schemes such as the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, particularly in the present economic climate. 
I would hope that responsible members of the Australian Labor Party Government will vote for this amendment, probably for no other reason than that they hold marginal seats and want to save their skins at the next election. I should think that probably a number of them would really want this amendment to be passed. Those honourable members opposite who are politically aware realise the groundswell in the community and probably thank the Opposition for the responsible attitude that it will take. The Government has allowed only 2 weeks in which to deal with this matter. What an extraordinary approach for a government that had the hide at its Federal Conference at Terrigal to say: 'We understand that private investment is essential for a country'. But this Government can give only less than 2 weeks for discussions with the private sector of this industry on matters of supreme national importance. It is obviously quite hypocritical of the Government to suggest that it has even embraced the concept of free enterprise. 
I would hope that some honourable members opposite would have enough good common sense- that is what is needed in this Government today, a little less socialism and a little less impetuosity- to realise that they have the responsibility to manage the economy of this country. They should realise that the people have had enough of experiments and that they should stop this particularly hasty approach to this obsession that some honourable members opposite have with respect to socialism. What we need to get this country back on the rails is a little cooperation between the Government of the day and the private sector of the community that has built this nation. By this amendment we are giving the Government an opportunity to get off the hook. I ask honourable members opposite to join us in supporting the amendment, which will show that at least when faced with the facts of life they have the common sense to embrace them. I support the amendment. 
-I take it that the Treasurer is aware of the iniquitous burden placed upon all Australian taxpayers in this inflationary period under the progressive tax scale system, particularly with the average weekly earner paying a marginal tax rate of nearly 40 per cent. I take it he is also aware of the tremendous liquidity problems companies have in an inflationary period in financing their ordinary business, let alone having any possibility for growth. Can the Treasurer tell me when he will be able to give us the final Asprey Committee report? Is the Matthews Committee report to be available to him next week? Will he let the Parliament and the public know the contents of that report as soon as possible so that we will have the most informed debate as we move towards a critical Budget in August? 
At the start of my remarks it is worth recalling that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was specifically selected by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to serve in this portfolio, not just for his administrative capacity but also because the Prime Minister knew that in selecting  Mr Daly  he would put a first class numbers man into a key portfolio which would assist the Australian Labor Party, and hence the Government, to entrench itself in its position as the Government of Australia. One of the first pieces of legislation to be introduced after the 1972 elections- I think it was in the first week of the sitting- was a Bill which was designed to make amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The Minister made his position very clear right from the outset. I said then- I repeat it now- that I have a number of reasons for opposing this electoral redistribution. I have always maintained that a 20 per cent tolerance in electoral sizes is needed in Australia today. If that is not the percentage of tolerance that is needed, certainly more than a 10 per cent tolerance is needed because with a 10 per cent tolerance there is not sufficient allowance for growth. My electorate of McPherson demonstrates that. 
I have said that if the Government had introduced a Bill which sought a 15 per cent tolerance I might well have been encouraged to support such legislation. Of course it will be remembered that the Bill which was rejected was rejected by the joint Opposition Parties. It was not rejected by the Liberal Party or by the National Country Party, we opposed it as a joint Opposition. We opposed it right through. We had the Joint Sitting of the Parliament, and matters have flowed on from then. Now we have the various electoral maps for the States of Australia, other than Western Australia. The one critical issue of them all is that there are substantial changes in a number of electorates throughout Australia. I do not think by and large that the Redistribution Commissioners took into account the need to have regard to existing divisions and sub-divisions. That is another major criticism that. I have of the Australian Electoral maps. It is all very well for the Minister to discard the census of 1976 and say that we cannot be holding up matters because that could take some years. In effect, if we get the figures from the census by early 1977 there is no reason why we could not have a redistribution of electoral boundaries based on the census of 1976 into the Parliament in 1 977. That would not be such a lengthy delay. 
The present Government is saying that these maps right throughout Australia are fair and they demonstrate an equality of voting. I suggest to the Australian electorate that a close study will demonstrate that these maps, by and large, assist the Labor Government throughout Australia in the marginal seats. Of course, that is the critical element. I think that one of the New South Wales members, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  made this same comment yesterday. I do not see why the Australian Labor Party should complain about the present boundaries. After all, it came into office in 1972. It held onto office very narrowly again in 1 974. So the real concern is that it is aware of the political climate and that it will need to have many more things happen if it is to survive the next election. 
I turn to deal with the Queensland electoral map. The Minister said: 'Is it not reasonable? We have sorted out all the imbalances and there is substantial equality of voters'. Of course, there are imbalances in Queensland. The size of my electorate is substantially over quota. But if we are to have an equality of voting- I indicated that I have embraced that principle- we have to see that it is implemented with a necessary degree of tolerance, a degree of flexibility and a real measure of common sense. When I make some comments about the new proposed seat of Kennedy, I will point out that that is where common sense flies out the window. I want to make it perfectly clear following the Minister's statements that the Liberal Party is opposed to this redistribution, not just organisationally but as an entire parliamentary party. This is not just a matter of the National Country Party demonstrating its interest organisationally against the proposals in Brisbane, Queensland, as did the Liberal Party executive. It is no good the Minister for Services and Property talking about problems of redistribution in Queensland. There was no greater perpetuator of the gerrymander than the Labor administration in Queensland in those bygone days. If honourable members wish to compare the electoral distribution in Queensland now under the Bjelke-Petersen-Chalk Government and compare that with the distribution when Labor was in office, they will see that there is a vast improvement in fairness and equality. 
Of course, these changes could have been avoided. I heard the Minister say yesterday that I had been crying since I realised that the previous electoral maps had been rejected. I want to say this in answer to him: If I were going to weep around Parliament House it would not be over electoral redistribution. One has to make certain that one holds back one's tears every time an economic measure is delivered into the Parliament by this Government. If honourable members want to weep for Australians, they do not talk about electoral redistribution; they talk about the high rate of unemployment in this nation and the substantial problems with the economy, particularly inflation. Of course, I do not take very much notice of the Minister for Services and Property. I rarely listen to his speeches. In those of his speeches I do hear I generally find a sense of amusement, but I am yet to hear one from the Minister which contains an element which informs me or persuades me to follow his point of view. 
It is not merely a matter involving my electorate, which presently contains 95 000 voters and will go now to over 100 000 voters. That is a substantial growth. I can well see that at the next election I will be sitting in the Parliament with a majority of at least 25 000 votes. The vote for the Liberal and National Country Party candidate in the McPherson electorate has never been below about 60 per cent. I would think that in the present political climate it would go close to 70 per cent. That is a tolerable burden for a member. There will be a little more work, but I enjoy that, and they are pleased to have me represent them. So I do not find that so onerous as the Minister suggests that it should be. There are a number of issues in relation to the Queensland electoral map. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is rightly concerned as his electorate is eliminated. It disappears off the electoral map. This is the last real ditch chance. In an effort to try to wrest the seat off  Mr Donald  Cameron at the last election the Labor Government endorsed the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Jones. But the Labor Party made one basic error. When the Prime Minister flew up to Brisbane and put Alderman Jones into the VIP aircraft and took him up to Rockhampton to convince him of the need for the Lord Mayor of Brisbane to serve there was substantial Press publicity, and if you want to do well in Queensland you do not get your photograph taken with the Prime Minister of Australia. That encourages electoral defeat. If one wants to do well in Queensland, one needs to have one's photograph taken with  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  or  Sir Gordon  Chalk. I say that out of a sense of charity to members of the Labor Party. The honourable members for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and even the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  are concerned- they have every right to be concernedbecause if we transpose the figures in the last State election to a Federal election the Labor Party would be lucky to hold more than one or two seats in Queensland. In fact, Labor Party representation in that State might disappear completely. The proposed redistribution of the electorate of Kennedy is quite ridiculous and unacceptable. I put aside the great contribution that has been made by the honourable members for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  all these years. It is quite ridiculous to suggest that the people of western Queensland can get effective representation when they live in an electorate which runs from Mount Isa in the north to Dalby in the south. This recommendation is unacceptable not just because the work of the member will be made almost impossible to carry out but also because it will be unfair to the electors of Queensland- those substantially important people. This is one of the main reasons why the Liberal Party will not have a bar of the proposed redistribution. 
We know the real reason for the redistribution. 
It is not that Labor is so concerned to adjust imbalances throughout the Australian electorate. The Labor Party knows full well that things are not going too well for it electorally. Its members read in the Press that in the popularity poll the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is now ahead of the Prime Minister. They become concerned when they see that the economic management of the nation is going into ruin in their hands. They become very distressed when they see personality clashes at the highest level within their Party. 
-I thank you for your guidance,  Mr Speaker.  I was just trying to indicate that I believe - 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I simply wanted to indicate that there were reasons other than those indicated by the Minister in his speech why the redistribution has been carried out. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties are unanimously opposed to the proposed changes. The Minister, of course, has had great pleasure and delight over the years in occasionally reminding us that he has the numbers in this House. That is very true. Of course, we will accept the decision of the majority. But we have the numbers in another place, and the Minister might as well get used to the fact that the proposed redistribution will be rejected. It is unacceptable to the Liberal Party and to the National Country Party. More importantly than that, it is unacceptable to the electors of Queensland, who see the proposed redistribution for what it is. 
It is interesting to note that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has entered this debate. 
Yes, he has every right to do so. It is encouraging to see him enter such a debate. In the  2Vi  years during which I have been in the Parliament often I have been surprised that when we have an important debate on the economy- which after all is the most significant issue facing the Australian nation- on labour and employment, or even on foreign affairs, the Prime Minister does not choose to enter the debate. He sees these Bills as being of some importance. Of course they are important to the Labor Party because they are critical to the survival of the Whitiam Government. Nobody recognises this as clearly as the Prime Minister who has to lead a very troubled Labor Government. 
What did the Prime Minister have to tell the Parliament and the nation today? In the first place, he related some historical facts of which we were all aware. But he did not really go back to the beginning of this legislation. One of the first acts of  Mr Whitlam  after becoming Prime Minister was to say to  Mr Daly:  'I am going to appoint you Minister for Services and Property. You will be in charge of electoral affairs. I want you to give your closest attention to arranging a redistribution of electoral boundaries'. The Prime Minister did not bother to remind us that one of the first acts of the Government when it came into office in 1972 was to get this proposed redistribution under way. One of the first decisions of the Labor Government after coming into office- not by a handsome majority but rather by a slender majority- was to try to see whether it could entrench itself in office. The Prime Minister referred to the Joint Sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament. He then entertained us with many statistics. Unless it escaped my attention I am not aware that the Prime Minister, in his speech, made any reference to the census which has to be held next year. He did not bother to inform the nation that if we had a redistribution of electoral boundaries now, following the census to be held in 1976 there would be a need for yet another redistribution and tremendous costs and inconvenience to the nation would result. The Prime Minister spent a considerable amount of his time talking about the disunity that he believes he sees between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia. Apparently, he will not face up to the facts of life which are that both the organisationsthe National Country Party and the Liberal Party- looked at the redistribution proposals separately and not only organisationally and discussions were also held by the parliamentary parties. The 2 parties are united in a most unanimous way. We will not have a bar of this proposed redistribution of electoral boundaries. 
I suggest to the Prime Minister that rather than be concerned about possible disunity and possible disagreement within the Opposition coalition, he ought to have a look at his own Government. Every morning he wakes up to disputes between Ministers, differences in approach between the left wing section and the right wing section of the Labor Party- whether it is on foreign policy, managing the economy, or on the question of mineral exploitation versus the environment. Morning after morning the Prime Minister of Australia wakes up to this enormous display of disunity within his own Party. I suppose he thinks that if the Government can get an electoral redistribution it will help the Labor Party and it might be elected once again. He is aware that without an electoral redistribution- I believe even with it- the days of the Labor Party in Government are numbered. I suggest to members of the Labor Government that they ought to realise what the whole of Australia realises- that the sense of unity, the sense of purpose, between the National Country Party and the Liberal Party is at an all time high. I have never known- I have been associated with the Liberal Party since 1957- a period in which the sense of unity of purpose, as we move towards accepting the responsibilities of government, has been greater. 
I refer again to the Minister for Services and Property who is responsible for this legislation. One can give the Minister first class marks for determination. I can well remember the early days of this Government- we have discussed the matter of electoral redistributions on many occasions- when the Minister said: 'There will be a redistribution in the life of the Parliament'. 
Of course, he keeps on saying it. He keeps on hoping there will be a redistribution but he knows, of course, that there will not be a redistribution based on the proposed boundaries. The Opposition has said to the Government: 'If you reconsider the criteria and if you reconsider the tolerance, we will not be opposed to considering a fair redistribution of electoral boundaries'. I have made it perfectly clear personally that I believe it is in the interests of the nation for some of these imbalances to be settled. I do not think they should be settled on the basis on which the Labor Government has approached the matter. 
The Prime Minister did not say very much about the precedents that his Government is setting. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  read the Electoral Act in part. He made it perfectly clear that the usual approach to a matter such as this is that when the Houses of Parliament will not accept an electoral redistribution the legislation lapses or the proposals are referred back to the Commissioners for a second look. What is wrong with that? Criticism has been made of the boundaries in the various States but no one has questioned the integrity of the Commissioners. It is the responsibility of the Parliament to look at the boundaries in detail, not simply talk about them in an academic sense but look at them in detail. I believe, in the last debate, substantially valid criticisms were made. If the Government wanted to send the proposals back to the Commissioners, why did it not do so? It could have approached the Commissioners and said: 'This is what has been said in the debate on the legislation. Have a look at it and come up with some other proposals'. But no, it does not do that; it does not go back to the Commissioners. We have this new approach; we are going to incorporate the proposals in a Bill. 
Why is the Government so determined? Even the Prime Minister said a few minutes ago that in some cases the proposed electorates would be to Labor's disadvantage. If they would be to Labor's disadvantage, will somebody please explain to me why the Labor Government is so determined to break precedence, to break the rules and to proceed in this way? It is for one obvious reason: Its own assessment is that it helps the Labor Government substantially, and that would be any reasonable person's assessment. Forget all those figures which people parade and use to their own advantage and to support thenown arguments. If one looks at the marginal seats where governments are won or lost, that is where the Labor Government has made a substantial improvement of its position in this redistribution of electoral boundaries. 
There has been a consistency in the Opposition's attitude in regard to this. We said from the beginning of 1973, when this matter was first discussed, that we were opposed to the changing of the tolerance from 20 per cent down to 10 per cent. I repeat what I have said many times before: People can put up an argument in respect of some seats that a 20 per cent tolerance is substantially high. Equally with validity, I put forward the view that a 10 per cent tolerance in growth seats is not sufficient to allow for growth. If there is only 10 per cent tolerance in growth seats, regular redistributions will have to be made almost every Parliament. That has never been the intent or the practice. The Government has not considered whether this is something it could look at. I have indicated that a valid argument could be put up for a 15 per cent tolerance, which would allow for growth in a number of growth areas throughout Australia. Of course, the criteriathe rules- under which the Distribution Commissioners have had to work were changed substantially. When we talk about redistributions of years gone by, Australians ought to recognise that there have been changes made in the Electoral Act under the present Labor Government. 
I want to make one or two comments about Queensland, my own State. I happen to have the numerically largest electorate in Australia. It will be substantially overbalanced. The Prime Minister said that by the next election, if this Parliament runs its course, the electorate of McPherson will have about 105 000 people. That is probably true enough. The irony of it is that, had we had a progressive private enterprise Government in office, the number of enrolments in the electorate of McPherson would have been substantially higher, because it has been the policies of this Government which have created a diminution in the growth of areas like the Gold Coast. One of the problems I have is trying to explain to people why opportunities are not available to them to come and live in my particular electorate. 
It is not a matter of just looking at the situation electorate by electorate. If we are to do that, why was it necessary to abolish the electorate of Griffith? The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  had plenty to say about that on the last occasion that we debated this matter. If we are to be fair and consider the matter electorate by electorate I would concede that these particular redistribution proposals happen to favour the Liberal Party slightly in the electorate of Lilley. But that does not affect the attitude of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who states that, although he has been disadvantaged under previous redistributions and believes he is advantaged marginally under the present redistribution, he still joins with us in rejecting this proposed redistribution because he realises that the overall redistribution in Australia, and within Queensland in particular, is unacceptable. The one big issue as far as Queensland is concerned- we have stated it over and over again- is that we will not accept a redistribution which would mean that a vast area of western Queensland would have only one seat. How is it possible for a member of Parliament to give adequate service to a constituency which runs up from the Queensland-New South Wales border to as far as Mount Isa? 
The honourable member for Griffith has said: 'What about Griffith?' I want him to know that I have made mention of Griffith already because I realise it is a significant electorate. But it would not be possible for any member of Parliament, given the proposed new electorate of Kennedy, to do anything like a responsible or acceptable job when representing such a vast electorate. 
This is the sort of criticism which could have gone back to the Commissioners. Why did the Minister not give the Commissioners an opportunity to have a look at the very valid comments that people have made about this particular issue? But no, that has been wiped to one side and we now have a Bill incorporating a precedent making decision of the Labor Government incorporating a redistribution which has been rejected by the Senate. No doubt the Senate next week- I presume it will be next week- will reject these particular Bills. No doubt it is in the minds of members of the Government to have them back in this House in September and I suggest that is probably the reason why the Prime Minister saw fit to enter the debate today. Then, as the Minister for Services and Property and Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  the Prime Minister and everybody else in the Labor Government will start to say, they will become another basis for a possible double dissolution. 
That is what I was about to say. The Opposition chorus is: Let us have a double dissolution if the grounds are there now. The Prime Minister apparently hopes to create a storehouse of Bills and then to establish a record by having a double dissolution, thinking that there is a chance of his remaining in government, and then to have another historical Joint Sitting of the Houses. If it is the will of the Government to have a double dissolution, I do not know why it has to wait for this legislation on electoral boundaries before calling one. If it is the will of the Government in the present climate to go to the electorate and to say that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party are frustrating it, let it do so forthwith. Let the Prime Minister come into the House now. 
We have made it perfectly clear that it is not just a matter of our opposing the Government on an electoral redistribution which we find unacceptable; we will oppose any measures which we believe are against the major national interest. We have been pretty selective in our opposition. But I repeat what I have said before: The real issue facing the Labor Government is not the matter of electoral redistribution but the matter of getting the economy back on the rails, of getting the nation moving ahead again, of creating full employment in Australia, of creating confidence in the community generally and of bringing back a spirit of incentive throughout the Australian community. I still hope that the Leader of the House, as determined as he is- I have already paid tribute to that determinationmight yet see the advantage of reconsidering his position because, if it is a matter of getting out into the electorate as a whole and debating this matter, there is not one member of the Opposition who will not be prepared to take up the challenge and take it up with a great deal of enthusiasm. 
The electorate will not be fooled. It realises that the maps contained within these Bills are designed to entrench the Labor Government. The rules have been changed. New maps have been drawn. The Australian electorate will recognise that and will not be sidetracked on discussing electoral redistribution. They do not want to know from this Government what it thinks about electoral redistribution. They will ignore the propaganda of the Government about disunity within the Liberal Party and the National Country Party because they see daily in the newspapers and nightly on television the disunity within the Labor Government at so many levels. What the country will wish to debate, what it will wish to arbitrate on and what, indeed, it will arbitrate on, is the state of the economy, the management of the nation's financial affairs by the Labor Government. I hope the Minister will convey to the Prime Minister the view that it is obvious that the Prime Minister senses this as a double dissolution opportunity. We would welcome that. Any time he wishes to come into the House and to announce a decision to go out to Yarralumla, I am certain he would find sufficient members of the Opposition to carry him out there. 
I end simply by saying that the Minister ought to have some regard for the practices of the Parliament. He has been a member of the Parliament for 30 years or so. He is the father of the House. If anybody ought to have respect for what has been the custom and for what is the proper way of conducting affairs, it is the Minister. He really ought to withdraw these Bills. We have given him a substantially valid argument indicating criticisms and indicating where the Commissioners could reconsider the boundaries. He ought to send the proposals back to the Commissioners, and then we would have a second look at them. But, more importantly than that, he really ought to consider whether the reduction of the tolerance, the alteration of the criteria, is in the best interests of the country. We have to have proper representation in this Parliament. It is no good the Government using its numbers to force through Bills to change the criteria, which it knows will assist in producing boundaries to its electoral advantage. It simply will not work. We will continue our opposition, and continue it in a united and forceful way. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (4.26)-I support the electoral redistribution Bills now before the House. I was very surprised at the behaviour of the Opposition when the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  introduced these Bills. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  said that the members of the House and the people of Australia had not had an opportunity to scrutinise the Bills. The Bill leading to the proposed redistribution was an election issue. It was one of the measures dealt with at the Joint Sitting of the Parliament. It has been before this House on several occasions and has been before the Senate. In addition to that, it has been a debating issue on television. (Quorum formed.) I point out that maps of the proposed redistribution have been on display for several weeks. If any member of this House or any people in a member's electorate do not know 'about this Bill, it is the member's fault, not the fault of the Minister and the way he introduced the Bills into the House. 
I take the attention of the House back to last Thursday, when the subject matter of these Bills was debated for  %Vi  hours in this chamber. On that occasion the matter would have been debated for much longer but for the attitude and method adopted by the Opposition. Honourable members will remember that every time a member of the Government Party rose to speak a member of the Opposition called for a quorum to be formed. 
The Opposition does not want to delay the House on this matter. The Grants Commission is an important commission; it is an important part of government structure. We simply want to repeat our attitude that should a judge be appointed to the Commission we have no objection to the rank, status and precedence which that person enjoys continuing but we are opposed to his designation of judge continuing. This is not in any way to detract from the present incumbent and I would like that to be understood. We have seen a tremendous number of commissions set up by this Government and we do not concede that a judge necessarily is the right person to lead these commissions. Certainly we do not agree with the precedent that has been set and we can see other possibilities should this precedent be accepted. Having said that, the Opposition does not want to pursue the matter or to delay the Bill. It simply restates its opposition on the question of designation. 
The Opposition stated its attitude during the debate on the second reading of the Bill. Of course, the Bureau of Statistics has enormous scope. There is to be a tremendously increased number of surveys which it is accepted will be in the national interest. We hope that the information that flows from these surveys will be used in the national interest. We are in an age of computerisation. We have agreed that the Australian Bureau of Statistics will have the status of a statutory authority. We were concerned about aspects of privacy. We are aware that the Government is to bring in a Bill later this year- we hope it will be later on this year- which will give us the opportunity to debate that matter in some depth. 
We originally moved an amendment that all new surveys should be placed before Parliament. The amendment now proposed by the Government is acceptable to us. It is a compromise. As the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  says, any new initiatives will come before the Parliament unless they are for the collection of information on a voluntary basis or where, when the Parliament is in recess, it is necessary to commence implementation of a proposal connected with business information as distinct from any of the social issues which are obviously of concern and in relation to which we are concerned about the aspects of privacy. The Minister has been very courteous in discussions with me about this matter, as have the officials of the Bureau. The Opposition accepts the amendment. 
-This Bill contains a number of important matters. It is concerned, first of aU, with Papua New Guinea and sets in legislative form the taxation arrangements which are to apply as Papua New Guinea moves towards independence. The Bill lists some special exceptions which are different from those which normally apply to separate countries. The Opposition agrees with the exceptions, particularly with regard to the arrangements for pensions and the exemption of employment security scheme payments. With regard to the National Employment and Training scheme, which has not been the tidiest piece of administration seen in this country, the BUI makes it perfectly clear, for the first time, that allowances under the NEAT scheme will attract taxation. There has been considerable doubt for some time about this and it is this doubt that has caused distress to a number of people. 
The Bill also removes the tax liability on the use of company cars for private purposes. This was introduced by the former Treasurer, the present Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean),  in the last Budget and, as stated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  was part of the business bashing which was then and still is fashionable to a degree with the Government. It was an improper piece of tax law. I understand it was an idea that came out of the personal staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Well, it was an improper one. People will recall that its purpose was to add an additional tax liability for those people using company vehicles. If one had a vehicle with a stand-by value of $6,000 it attracted tax on the basis of 12 per cent of that value. If its value was over $6,000 the basis of tax was 24 per cent of that value. I do not think that the Government is removing this because of its concern for the private sector. This was one of those half-baked tax policies. I really think, in fact I am sure, that it was the trade union officials- I suspect  Mr Hawke  and I know  Mr Egerton-  who had something to say about this because they appreciated the significance of it to trade union officials using the vehicles of their organisations. 
As to company tax collection, the Bill deletes the payment which was due in February, the second instalment of company income tax for the 1973-74 year. This gets back to the old problem of inflation. Whilst this measure will help and whilst it will alleviate some of the problem, it will not solve the liquidity problem that companies have. This problem applies to the whole range of business, from the smallest business to the largest company. The tremendous problem that any business of any size has in financing normal day to day, month to month transactions is becoming extremely difficult. The measure before us provides no allowance, no possibility and no initiative for substantial growth. I hope that in this context the Government will look very closely at the Mathews report, a report which it instigated itself and which has some very valuable recommendations with regard to assisting companies with liquidity problems. 
I want to make some reference to the special accelerating income tax deductions by manufacturing and primary industries for depreciation of plant. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said, these were announced on 9 December 1974, far too late and for far too short a period. They do not provide sufficient incentive and insufficient time is allowed for them to work. It is ironic that they should come just about 2 years after the Australian Labor Party came into office, after we had the tariff cuts, the currency realignments the tremendous increase in costs, the tremendous increase in tax burdens and the substantial increase in interest rates. All these things created a substantial lack of confidence. Profits are down and capital investment is substantially down. So  Dr Cairns,  who is now apparently the retiring Treasurer, decided that the private sector needed some sort of incentive. This is welcome enough except, as we said, it does not go far enough. 
I take this opportunity to put to the Government that legislation in itself will not restore confidence. I would invite members of the Labor Government to put themselves in the position of a board of directors or an owner-manager of a company or business. I recognise that few honourable members opposite have had any business experience at all. Imagine a board of directors or an owner considering whether to take advantage of this investment allowance. The owner, for example, has problems of inflation, as has the whole nation, and flowing on from that a substantial tax liability on unreal paper profits. He has substantial liquidity problems, and in some cases problems so big that he cannot survive. It has been indicated in the last few days how many small businesses have gone to the wall in recent months. The owner is faced with the highest interest rates for years. He is considering whether or not he should make some use of this incentive. 
Day by day, month by month he learns through the Press and through the other media about problems within the Government. Tariffs are important to any businessman. He reads that there is a difference between what the Treasurer has said about tariffs and what the new Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  has to say about them. The Prime Minister, in his comments of the last few days, substantially agrees with the new Minister for Manufacturing Industry. The man considering whether he will take advantage of this initiative finds that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  only a few weeks ago tried to convince Cabinet that it ought to support or at least not oppose an application before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for an increased wage for metal trades workers. The company director and the firm owner are concerned with costs. They are affected by the Government's announced attitude towards the metal trades case. Any decision in this case would be very significant because we all know that the metal trades award flows on so influentially throughout Australia. The company director or the firm owner reads that the Government has realised that it has to do something about curtailing the growth of public expenditure. He says: ' Perhaps that is a glimmer of light '. But then the Government decides to go ahead with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, a new superannuation scheme for public servants and new compensation legislation. All these problems add up to a further erosion of the confidence of the  business community. 
If that is not sufficient, almost daily there are reports of disputes between Ministers. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  is in dispute with the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass).  We see constantly reports that the man who is to be Australia's Treasurer in a few days time,  Mr Hayden,  is apparently in disagreement with the present Treasurer. On top of all this we hear the Prime Minister- and in the end result it is the Prime Minister who has to take the responsibility for the actions of his Government, his Ministers and the members of his Party- on national television saying: 'I think a Cabinet spill would be a very good idea because I have a number of Ministers who are not terribly competent and I would really like the Party to throw them out so I can get some new ones '. 
Boards of directors and the owners of companies and business wonder whether under this sort of climate and this sort of disunity they are prepared to invest. Of course everybody knows what the answer is going to be. Just to make sure that this depressed attitude continues the  president  of the Australian Labor Party spoke in an expansive mood , from London the other night accusing the Prime Minister of lunatic decisions. What sort of a climate is that? We have had fragmentation of policies and fragmentation of personnel. 
I simply say to the Government that this initiative is useful, but it does not go far enough. As the Government moves towards the Budget which it will have to deliver in a few short months, if it wants to see businessmen invest it must put some stability back into the Government and put some unity back into the Labor Party. If it wants to revive the private sector it should try to demonstrate that it has this capacity, that it is serious about tackling inflation and that it is serious about tackling the enormous burden of taxation upon the business community. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. It only hopes that should this Government survive we will not be faced after the coming Budget with the position we faced many months after the last Budget. 
We have been listening to the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  for about 20 minutes, speaking with a head in the sand attitude. He apparently cannot recognise the problems that are facing the Australian economy or the mess that we are in. When I hear his comments about business- I mention only one of them because the others were too extraordinary to repeat- particularly his comment that the best thing that the Government has done for small business is the Trade Practices Act, I give up any hope at all for the present administration. 
We are dealing with the third Labor Budget. It has been regarded in some circles as responsible. That is a pretty kind word. At least this Budget, compared with the previous 2 Budgets which were irresponsible, represents an attempt to be responsible. It is destined, regrettably, for failure. One cannot look at the 1975 Budget in isolation. It has to be seen in the context of Labor's administration since 1972. People have short memories. Certainly, members of the Government Party have short memories. The Budgets of 1973 and 1974 are very relevant to this debate. This year's Budget provides for a deficit of $2,800m. We cannot yet ascertain how that deficit is to be funded. The Budget documents themselves imply that we will have an inflation rate of about 16 per cent and accept that we will have a substantial degree of unemployment. 
Why is it that 2 years and 8 months after Labor came into office in 1972 we have this dismal outlook throughout Australia? Let me remind Australians that at the end of 1972 the economy was sound and buoyant, the inflation rate was below 5 per cent and employment opportunities were opening up for many Australians. Within days of  Mr Whitlam  becoming Prime Minister we had the beginning of the great socialist experiments. Honourable members will recall those heady days of late December 1972 and early January 1973 when the Government was setting up all the committees and commissions and when staff increases in the Public Service became paramount. Will Australians forget the across the board tariff cuts which were so damaging to the economy? The honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  mentioned those tariff cuts in relation to his electorate today. 
It did not take long, with Labor in office, for the stresses to start. The 1973 Budget called for restraint. It was obvious that there were stresses in the economy and restraint was needed. But no, with the first attempt by  Mr Crean  up went expenditure by $2,000m, up went taxation and the business bashing- let me tell the honourable member for Shortland that business bashing is job bashing- started and has continued ever since. Inflation was off, wage demands became rampant, and some militant trade unions were using their union muscle to force over-award payments in some cases aided and abetted by Ministers and other members of the Government Party. Is it any surprise that within 12 months of Labor coming into office the economy was starting to slide? By early 1974 inflation was running at 14 per cent, unemployment numbers were increasing, there was a credit squeeze and interest rates were the highest they had been for many years. The tremendous disadvantageous effect interest rates have had upon home ownership is to the eternal discredit of this Government. 
The Opposition warned the Government that disaster was ahead. We had a May election and the issue of that election was the management of the Australian economy. The Government scraped home with a lesser majority; it was rebuked by the electorate and told to learn the lesson and to learn the error of its ways. The incredible thing was that the lesson was not learned. The electorate was ignored. Four months later, after the Government had just scraped home in May 1974, a Budget was introduced and expenditure went up again- this time by $4,000m. How was this funded? It was funded, in part, out of inflation. The increase in personal tax that year was $ 1,800m higher than the year before. The marginal tax rate on Australian weekly earnings grew gradually until it reached almost 50 per cent on average weekly earnings. The planned deficit of $500m, in round figures, by the end of the financial year became $2,000m. I think Australians should be very careful when assessing this Budget. With the Government managing to increase the deficit last year from a planned $500m to $2,000m, I wonder what sort of a record the Government will set this year with a planned deficit of $2,800m. 
Let me give credit to some members of the Labor Caucus. They became pretty mutinous about that time, particularly with regard to the surcharge on so-called unearned income and with regard to the capital gains tax. Caucus, to its credit, had some impact upon the Cabinet. But the recklessness went on. Again we warned the Government that expenditure was too high, that the nation could not afford it and that the tax rates were becoming so high that there was a real disincentive in the minds of the community. We said again and again that the nation should have some wage restraint, the Government should give the leadership and the Government should encourage the private sector, which really produces and develops the nation's wealth. When all these warnings and all this good advice was ignored, dismay and indeed despair descended upon the electorate. So, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  thought that he had better find a victima scapegoat.  Mr Crean  was summarily dismissed as Treasurer.  Dr Cairns  was appointed. Honourable members will recall that he did not last long. 
By early 1975 the enormous damage that had occurred between 1973 and 1974 was obvious to all Australians but not to this Government. I will admit that it was obvious to some Labor members, but it was not obvious to the Labor Cabinet. Tensions and divisions that had been in existence from the beginning of this Administration accelerated and we had a devisive and a divisive government. We then had the extraordinary loans issue, which the electorate is not likely to forget when it goes to the polls on the next occasion. It has always been an untidy story. Nobody has ever quite found out how the $4,000m was to be used. Under the Constitution it should have been for temporary purposes. For what socalled temporary purposes was it to be used? Was it in fact to be used to fund the deficit? Was it in fact to be used to hide the tremendous increase in Government expenditure? Enormous tensions developed within the Government. So the Prime Minister- to give him his due, he is consistent in wielding his axe upon his colleagues- moved again. This time  Dr Cairns  was out and  Mr Hayden  was in. 
We moved towards this Budget day. Suddenly, the Government was prepared to admit that the economy was in a bit of a mess and that profits were down. I remind the honourable member for Shortland that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and the Prime Minister have admitted that profits are important. If businesses do not make profits they cannot reinvest and they will not, of course, create productivity and the jobs that flow from it. The Government admitted that businesses- large and small- had real problems. The larger ones have a capacity to survive, whereas some of the smaller ones have not; so we have seen many thousands of small businesses, through no fault of their own, going to the wall. The liquidity squeeze in Australia was of such proportions that it was a matter of survival as far as most companies were concerned. Again this was adding enormously to the disincentive in the minds of the communitydisincentive at a personal level and disincentive at a corporate level. 
After the Government admitted that things were not too good a few months ago we saw a great pubic relations exercise. Orchestrated leaks were coming out of the Cabinet. The Prime Minister said that the Government would cut expenditure. He said that expenditure had to be pruned a little.  Mr Hayden  agreed. One Minister after another argued against reductions in his department. The whole public relations exercise was designed to let Australians know that we were to have a very tough Budget and that they should prepare themselves for a very difficult period. The exercise was designed, of course, so that when the Budget was produced it was not as bad as it had appeared it would. Of course, before the Budget was introduced we had the delightful exercise of introducing postal and telecommunications increases quite separately. Traditionally such increases were contained in the Budget. With 2 commissions to run those enterprises it was a rather handy exercise to put up indirect taxes, which affect every Australian, before the Budget in the hope that they would be lost sight of in the budgetary context. 
Two weeks ago in this House  Mr Hayden  introduced the Budget of 1975. Government expenditure was up again. Admittedly, it is not as much as the Government would have wished it to be. We will have a deficit of $2,800m. Accelerated investment allowances are to be continued. But they had not been acted on in the year before and are unlikely to be acted on under this Government. This is because companies will not use accelerated investment allowances, which are not large enough anyhow, unless there is confidence in the business community. We have this supposedly great tax restructuring. On superficial appearance, there was some merit in it. But when it is subjected to the closest scrutiny, it becomes quite a hoax. Of course, the restructuring will not take place until 1 January next year. The Budget Papers indicate that the Government still expects to increase its collection by way of personal taxation this year by $2,600m. That represents some tax deductions for Australians! 
I turn to company tax. In order to demonstrate that the Government accepts in a mixed economy that the private sector has to do well, company tax was reduced by  2lA  per cent. What a massive contribution to the liquidity problems of Australian companies that will make. Would not that reduction of the company rate of tax by 2  Vi  per cent have given any Australian company a great incentive? At the same time, it has increased indirect taxes bringing hundreds of millions of dollars into the Consolidated Revenue. Increased indirect taxes will be imposed on the sale of petrol- and that will affect every taxpayer and every industry in Australiaon cigarettes and on beer. Again, we have an acceptance of inflation at the rate of 16 per cent, an acceptance of unemployment not diminishing and an acceptance of little productivity. I say to Government supporters that they will have to live with the response that is now coming from this Budget. The taxpayers are not fooled and the trade union movement is not fooled. Government supporters will find that out to their cost in the next few weeks and months from statements and the industrial unrest that is already starting in the trade union movement. Certainly, the private sector is not fooled. 
What has been the Opposition's response to the Budget? Whilst there is an acceptance of the damage that has been done, the members of the Government still find it impossible to realise the extent of the damage that has been done. Government expenditure is still too high. The 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that when in government the Opposition would reduce the Budget expenditure by $ 1,000m or by 5 per cent. Let us get these figures quite clear so that everybody understands. We will save 5 per cent of the $20,000m- I am speaking in round figuresexpended in this Budget. We have indicated quite honestly where we would save that $ 1,000m which we will give back in the form of tax cuts. We will save that amount of money by stopping the growth in the Public Service. We will save it by discontinuing socialist enterprises like the National Pipelines Authority. We will save it by abolishing the Department of the Media. That Department is misnamed the Department of the Media. It has been turned into a department of propaganda and it has been abused by this Government. We will abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Australian Government Legal Aid Office. Legal aid will be handled more effectively through the States where the legal aid offices are set up and where we can give the people in need the legal aid they require. 
Would anybody doubt that a return of a Liberal-National Country Party government would not improve substantially the efficiency of administration and would not reduce substantially the wastage that has gone on under this Government? The $ 1,000m we will save will go back to the Australian nation by way of tax reductions. We will reduce personal income tax by $500m to give incentive to people to seek and earn rewards. We are proud to encourage people to seek and earn rewards. We will reduce corporate taxation by $500m. We will implement the recommendations of the Mathews Committee which are concerned with inflation accounting. The extraordinary thing about the Labor Government is that it set up a high powered Committee called the Mathews Committee to report to it on the question of taxation. It then largely ignored the report and implemented in its Budget only 10 per cent of the recommendations of that Committee which it set up. Tax indexation and inflation accounting which many members of the Liberal and National Country Parties, particularly the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  have fought for over a lengthy period are vital if we are to get growth and development moving again. We have also indicated that in order to get productivity moving we will give substantial investment allowances so that we can encourage re-investment in factories. We will open up job opportunities for many more Australians. 
The extraordinary thing was the reaction of the Prime Minister to these proposals. He entered the Parliament with a prepared statement. Presumably, it was prepared by  Mr Hayden's  office as  Mr Hayden  rushed overseas. It was quite clear that the Prime Minister had no idea or understanding of what the Leader of the Opposition was talking about. It must be to the despair of members of the Labor Government that they are headed by a man who refuses to address himself or who cannot address himself to the economic problems of the nation. It was left to  Mr Crean,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the former Treasurer who  Mr Whitlam  had sacked to come into the Parliament and defend the Prime Minister. He defended the Prime Minister by saying that he really did not understand - 
He ought to have asked to be excused. I hope that he understands our policy now because we spelt it out so clearly that I would have thought any person with any real degree of understanding of arithmetic would understand it. I want to say this: What the Labor Government hopes, of course, is that it will get consumer spending up sufficiently to have a superficial appearance of improvement in the economy. It might obtain this superficial improvement, but unless there is a substantial improvement in investment in the private sector, it will not obtain real growth. Real growth can be obtained only if the Government gets industry moving again. I use that word 'industry' in the broadest sense to include primary industry, manufacturing industry, tertiary industry and the service industries. I warrant that the Labor Government will react again, or I should say that some of the Labor Party members will react again. This is because, as they move around their electorates in the next parliamentary recessthey will have 2 weeks in which to do this- it will become quite clear to them just how unacceptable are the policies of the Government. I would expect that we would have another mutinous Labor Party Caucus on our hands before too many weeks pass by. 
I recommend to Labor Party members for their personal reading the July report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. This is an economic survey of decisions taken by the Australian Government between January 1974 and April 1975. It does not make for very good reading. One would have thought that the Government members had learned their lessons in economy from playing snakes and ladders in their adolescent years so quick is the change in direction and so often are the different decisions made. The report does not give a happy picture for Australia. If we are to win our way back in the world economy, if we are to be able to compete with our great trading partners like the United States of America, the European countries and Japan that have already turned the corner on the problems of inflation and unemployment, we will need much more decisive action by this Government. The Government has understood in degree what the problems are. What it will not grasp is the extent of them. What it will not grasp is the need to take firm action. I support the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition which states: the House condemns the Budget because it does not provide an adequate program to defeat inflation and relieve unemployment nor does it restore confidence in private sector of the economy. 
-The motion of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is meaningless despite what the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  has said. 
-Well, meaningless in the context of today's debate and that is the context in which I am speaking. There is no argument with paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Minister's motion. However, the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  has moved an amendment to paragraph (3) because this paragraph in its present form is mischievous and is designed not to have a debate on democracy but to have a debate on party politics in the hope that the Labor Government can pick up a little ground in Queensland. The paragraph refers to reports only, and that is all there has been. From the day after  Senator Milliner  died it has been made perfectly clear by the Premier of Queensland that the Queensland Government would replace  Senator Milliner  with a member of the Australian Labor Party. That has not been in doubt from the day after  Senator Milliner's  death. Let us be fair to the Premier of Queensland, and honourable members will know that I have differed in organisational matters with him in days gone by. But the Premier spoke with the authority of a Cabinet meeting and the authority of the joint parties- he was speaking for the Government and for Government supporters- when he said that he believes it is desirable for the Parliament to have a choice. This is a question of the prerogative of the Queensland Parliament. If the Queensland Parliament requires a choice that is its decision and it will be judged, and I am certain it will be happy to be judged, on the attitude that it takes. 
Both the Minister and the honourable member for Brisbane referred to the death of  Mr Poulter  and the fact that in 1962 the then Nicklin Government would not accept the nominee who was presented by the Australian Labor Party. Subsequently  Senator Whiteside  was selected. The Minister for Services and Property said that there was uproar and concern within Queensland about the appointment.  Senator Whiteside  lost at the next election so I cannot imagine that there was any great concern as to the attitude - 
-Well, if people were concerned about the action of the Government one would have thought they would have supported  Senator Whiteside  at the next election. In fact he lost his seat in the Senate at the subsequent election. The Minister says that he is not aware of a request for a choice. If he checks State  Hansard  he will find that on each occasion- on the death of  Senator Sherrington,  when the late  Mr Heatley  was put into the Senate, and on the resignation of  Senator Dame  Annabel Rankin when  Senator Bonner  was selected- the Labor Party in the State demanded a choice. Of course, eventually it went along with the State Government's nominee. If the Minister refers to  Hansard  he will see that this is what happened. Of course the Labor Party went along with the appointments. One would have wondered what the Labor Party would have done in governmentit was in Opposition and it did not have the numbers in any case to force its viewbecause it set out quite clearly in the State Parlia.ment that it believed a choice was desirable. When the Premier says on this occasion 'Let us have a choice' the Labor Party runs away from that attitude and position. 
The choice of a candidate is a matter for the Queensland Parliament alone. Practice will be followed. I am quite sure in my mind that a member of the Australian Labor Party will be selected for the position of senator at the meeting of Parliament in Queensland this afternoon. It is not a question of personalities. The Liberal Executive has expressed a view, and it has a right to do so. There was no direction to the parliamentary members of the Government parties. I sat beside  Sir Gordon  Chalk at an Executive meeting the other night. He has a view. If I were in Queensland I would have no personal objection in voting for  Dr Colston.  But my view or anybody else's view is irrelevant. It is a matter for the State Parliament. 
This Government has much to blame itself for in the present problems because it has made the States so sensitive as a result of its attitude on many issues. The Senate is so critical to the States that obviously they want to have the best men to represent them. I thought that the Leader of the National Country Party presented a magnificent catalogue of deception, a magnificent catalogue of the number of conventions and practices that this Government has broken. The idea of coming into the House and piously trying to express concern about some attitude of the Queensland Parliament in this matter will not sell. The nation will not forget the Government's attempt to circumvent the Senate by the appointment of  Senator Gair  to Ireland. Of course, the Government probably never got over the fact that on that occasion the Premier, with the aid of  Senator Wood,  outmanoeuvred it completely and made that Utile move quite unsuccessful. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made it perfectly clear that he believes convention should be followed and will be followed and that a Labor man will be selected. The Leader of the Opposition is in no way in conflict with the 
Premier of Queensland about this. But the Leader of the House came in, said that he wanted to talk about this matter in a nonpartisan way and then he turned the debate into a personal attack on the Premier of Queensland. Of course there are very good reasons for this because Queensland is one of the real trouble spots for this Government. It does not surprise me that the honourable member for Brisbane has spoken in this debate and that the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  appears as though he will do so because they are well aware of the difficult climate they may have to face in Queensland. They are well aware that so successful have been the Liberal and National Country Parties in that State, that if the figures in the State election were transposed to a federal election they would not hold their seats and the Opposition would have four of the six senators at the next Senate election. 
The whole motion is a sham. There is no need for it. It is simply designed to try to embarrass the Premier who has outmanoeuvred the Government and has been such a superior tactician in politics for a number of years. The Government's move will not work. It is probably designed as well to try to force some sort of division between the Liberal and National Country Parties in that State. That Will not work either. A meeting of the Government parties is to take place today, a Cabinet meeting is probably going on in Brisbane at this very moment and the Parliament will meet this afternoon when the matter will be resolved, and I am certain resolved to the satisfaction of the Queensland electorate. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the National Country Party. 
-Is the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs aware of the statement issued by the Australian Research Grants Committee expressing dismay over substantial reductions in research funds allocated by the Government? Does the Minister agree that research in many fields will be disastrously retarded? Is it correct that 400 researchers will be retrenched? Is he concerned that inadequate research could result in Australia's becoming a third rate intellectual and technological community? If he does will he strive for a reallocation of Government spending to achieve better funding? Will more fight be shown on this occasion than when the Prime Minister and the Minister fro Minerals and Energy tried to fragment the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation? 
I rise this morning to talk about an electorate matter, but one that does affect a substantial number of Australians. 1 refer to the inadequate facilities at the Coolangatta airport, the one that services the Gold Coast tourist resort. The Coolangatta terminal is the second busiest in Queensland. In the year ended 31 December 1973 273 874 passengers used it. In the year ended 31 December 1974 287 380 used it. I am informed by both the carriers that this year there will be a further increase of 25 per cent. There will be a substantial number of honourable members who would have visited the area themselves and would know firsthand of the inadequate facilities- the building, the floor space and the impossible seating arrangements. The catering conditions are completely unacceptable in Australia today. The cargo handling facilities are only about the size of a normal backyard. 
I often wonder what must be the first impression of the Gold Coast of people who leave the first class airports at Tullamarine and to a lesser extent Mascot and then move on to what could only be described as a glorified barn. After all the airport is a front door. Their first impression must not be terribly satisfactory. It is about time that action was taken to bring this airport up to date. I do not think I have to convince the House of the importance of the tourist industry. It is growing in world terms and it is growing in domestic terms. Bearing in mind the number of Australians and particularly overseas travellers who use that airport, we should have a good image to present to them. 
The argument goes back more than 10 years. It started in the days when  Senator Henty  was Minister for Civil Aviation, continued through the administration of  Sir Reginald  Swartz and  Senator Cotton,  and it has been the subject of substantial discussion and voluminous correspondence with the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  At times it appeared that the government of the day would be able to provide the necessary funds. The amount needed may be up towards $ lm. I do not think the requirement is for a luxury terminal but for an adequate terminal. It did appear likely on occasions that the Government would be able to fund this expenditure. 
What we have come down to now is a polarisation of views between the Minister and the Department, and the Gold Coast City Council and the Tweed Shire. The Minister wants to see a shared arrangement under the local ownership scheme. That was considered but it appeared that there were real legal problems because the airport straddles the Queensland-New South Wales border, and it was therefore necessary to have the Tweed Shire and the New South Wales Government involved. After lengthy correspondence over a number of years the latest proposition now is that there ought to be a joint board comprising representatives of the Tweed Shire and the Gold Coast City Council accepting under a local ownership arrangement a 50 per cent sharing of the cost. 
It has developed into a very real issue. The Minister says on one hand quite clearly in his letters that this Labor Government has not got the funds and cannot see the likelihood of funds being made available to provide an adequate terminal building. He wants a local ownership plan. The Gold Coast City Council has set itself completely against acceptance of the local ownership plan because this would involve substantial expenditure for that local authority. It does not have the funds available, and it is not tremendously impressed with the suggestion that it should charge some per capita tax in order to recover whatever expenditure it is involved in. I want to read the recent letter I got from the Gold Coast City Council. It is addressed to myself and states: 
It has been mentioned to you on a number of occasions previously that the Council view this Airport as a Commonwealth responsibility, the Council having previously rejected the Local Ownership Plan. There have been suggestions made that the financial problems can be readily solved by the levying of a passenger charge for use of the Airport and that if a Local Ownership Authority took over and did this, capital improvements required at the Airport could be proceeded with without delay. 
All this, of course, leaves the Council asking the question, why this City Airport can only be developed through financing requiring a local tax levy when all the other major airports in Australia have been provided with modern facilities without need for such tax? It further would respectfully enquire why the Government if so convinced about the dependence on the tax, does not take steps to initiate such a taxing system rather than leave it to a Local Body to impose and collect? 
I have tried, in my correspondence with the Minister, in my discussions with the Gold Coast City Council and in any Press statements I have made, to avoid a party political attitude regarding this problem. Indeed, I have consulted and discussed it with  Senator McAuliflfe,  a Labor senator who maintains an office in Southport, on a number of occasions, and I know that  Senator McAuliffe  has made representations to the Minister as well. What I am concerned about is that we have now got ourselves into a situation where the Minister says: 'This is all that is acceptable to the Government' and the local authorities say: 'What the Minister has suggested is completely unacceptable to us'. Of course the whole matter is completely polarised and no progress is being made at all. Australia's top tourist resort- and that is what the Gold Coast is- deserves better treatment than this. 
I make an appeal to the Minister. In my view the time for letter writing is over. I have had a look at the correspondence which has flowed from him and from previous Ministers. There is an enormous file. While this has been going on for 10 years the facilities have remained inadequate and travellers have been and are inconvenienced. I do not use the Coolangatta airport all the time. I very often travel through Brisbane, but I use Coolangatta airport often enough to see hundreds of people inconvenienced when arriving at and leaving the airport. 
It is no good the Minister just saying that the Gold Coast receives benefit from the airport and therefore should pay a substantial share of the expenditure. I accept that the Gold Coast receives a substantial benefit. A quarter of a million Australians annually use that airport. As travellers in a jet age they are entitled to adequate facilities. The Minister responsible, in my view, is very much concerned with providing those facilities. I informed the Minister's office that I would be mentioning this matter today. I hope that we will see now some concerted effort by  Mr Charles  Jones to visit the Gold Coast. To my knowledge he has not visited the area to discuss this matter since he has been the Minister. He may have been there in a personal capacity. I do not know that. I am quite sure that no conference has been held with him on this matter. I have been in conference with some of his departmental officers regarding the development of the airport generally. 
To me what is needed is an acceptance by the Minister that there is a real degree of responsibility here that has to be shouldered by the Australian Government. The responsibility has been shouldered by previous governments and by this Government in many other major areas of Australia. It is no good the Government maintaining the attitude that it is inflexible and that it will not move unless the Gold Coast City Council accepts its terms. I hope that the Minister will see fit to come to the airport himself in the foreseeable future- I would hope in the next few weeks or few months- so that we can convene a conference to try to arrive at some sort of solution to a problem that is obviously tremendously disadvantaging so many thousands of Australians. 
I want to refer today to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Australian Research Grants Committee. The comments of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other Australian Labor Party members before they achieved office, relating to what their interest in science was to be, obviously conflict with the decisions that they have made in Government. Let us talk about the Australian Research Grants Committee. Of course, assistance to research has been going on in Australia for a long time. It was not until 1965, when this Committee was set up, that worthwhile funding started. Literally thousands of research projects and people throughout the community have been assisted. It is a fact of life that these grants are the principal source of revenue for research at universities. So great is the concern regarding the Government's present budgetary plans that the  Chairman  of the ARGC who said that 660 people were being assisted in 1975, is now talking about retrenchments to the extent of 350 people. 
I do not intend getting into a boring argument about figures. Let me quickly refer to the amount of money expended. In the triennium 1973-1975 an allocation of $22.8m was made to the ARGC In the triennium 1976-1978 an allocation of $20m will be made. If one takes into account what has happened to the economy under this Government with inflation, that is an enormous reduction in assistance for research. We have a particular problem at the moment regarding the 1976 calendar year. Although these figures may be capable of some adjustment, at present the expenditure for 1976 is likely to be a little over $3m, as distinct from the $9m spent in 1975. Tremendous concern has been expressed by the science community. People are concerned about the waste of personnel and about the careers which will be interrupted and in many cases never resumed. 
The Parliament ought to understand that the ARGC covers many fields. The honourable member for Murray spoke about health research. The ARGC covers the areas of engineering, the physical and biological sciences, agriculture, energy, economics and social welfare. If the Government has been unhappy with the job the Committee has done and seeks to reduce the work of the Committee, let the Government say so; let it not hide behind a small, one-line item in the Budget Papers. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development report in 1974-1 have heard this Government comment upon the value of the OECD- commended the ARGC and suggested that there ought to be an extension of its work. It drew a comparison between the low level of expenditure in Australia on research and the levels in many other countries. Research is essential to may sections of the community in Australia. What has been the reaction from leading people? The question whether research will be retarded disastrously has not been answered by the Government. Other people have said that if we continue on this path we will reduce the nation to a third-rate intellectual and technological community. Another learned gentleman has referred to this as the most serious blow to research in 25 years. 
I wonder how some of the members of boards of directors in overseas countries, particularly the United States of America, would welcome this news,, knowing the tremendous value it will represent in the opportunity to sell overseas technology to Australia if we cannot maintain a sufficient expenditure on research ourselves. I put the question to the Minister and he answered me by simply saying: 'I have written to the Prime Minister about this'. That is just not good enough. We want to know what the Government intends to do. 

 Mr ERIC ROBINSON I will talk about the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in a moment. One might wonder where he is. With regard to science, he has been missing pretty often ever since he got the job. 
It is not the only attack on science. Let us look at what happened in June to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. May I say in passing that the allocation to the CSIRO is of a stay-put nature. In fact it is slightly less than what is required to keep it at the expenditure of last year. The increase has not allowed for the inflation caused by this Government. Honourable members will remember that  Mr Morrison  was pushed out of Science into Defence in June, at the time when there was a massive attack upon the independence and the totality of the CSIRO.  Mr Cameron,  after a gallant ministerial sit-in, accepted the portfolio of Science and Consumer Affairs.  Mr Morrison  went overseas.  Mr Cameron  went to Delhi and Sweden and absented himself from the tremendous struggle that was going on in the scientific community. 
It is a disgrace to this Parliament and to the Government that when we initiate a debate on science the Minister shows such a lack of interest that he does not even bother to enter into the debate. Let every person involved in science and technology in Australia- not just the 8000 staff members of the CSIRO and their families, but also those in manufacturing and primary industriesrecognise that the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs is not interested enough to come into this place and take part in a debate. 
The Prime Minister, aided and abetted by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),that  great empire builder, decided to transfer the minerals research and the solar studies sections out of the CSIRO and into the Public Service, taking away their independence, breaking down the strength of the CSIRO which, of course, very much is concerned with its totality. Of course, the result was a tremendous outcry from the entire science community who recognised the move as a fragmentation and as a beginning of the dismembering of the CSIRO. There was no consultation with the  chairman  of the CSIRO. No effort was made by either  Mr Morrison  or  Mr Cameron  to avoid it. So the sciences were left to fight on their own. They received some help from the Opposition and from the CSIRO Advisory Committee. Of course, in the end, after weeks of struggling without any assistance from the Minister a compromise was reached. The CSIRO is now maintaining its totality but it is under the control of 2 Ministers and we have yet to see how this arrangement is to work. 
With the decision on health, the decision on the ARGC and the attitude to the CSIRO, of course the science community throughout Australia has now become, like many other sections of the community, completely disenchanted with this Government. Many of these people helped Labor into office. They were fooled by the statements of the present Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition which he made to seminars and conferences all over the country expressing bis concern that he wanted to see increasing technological development. They, like a number of others, were fooled by the promises and they are now no longer fooled. They realise that this Government has let them down tremendously badly. They recognise, like all Australians do, that research is essential. They realise that if we are to have national progress we have to expend a sufficient amount of money to see that we get technological processes. Not only should we be concerned as Australians with national progress; we have an international reputation and international contribution to maintain, particularly in the fields of health and food production in South East Asia. So the Government has a requirement to re-look at the allocation. I am not suggesting that there should be an increase in government expenditure. What I am saying to the Government- and it had better have a look at this- is that there has been so much waste and bungling ever since Labor came into office that here we have another section of the community which is paying the price for the inefficient management of the Australian economy. But it is a price that not only the science community will pay; the entire Australian community will pay. If we are to increase productivity, growth and development we have to have research and technological skills. I join with the honourable member for Murray and support his criticism that the Government has failed, and has failed abysmally, in its administration of its science and research policy. 
May I say, first of all, that I agree with many of the comments made by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  particularly those in the earlier part of his speech about the use of State school facilities. I hope that what he has to say is listened to by the State authorities because some State education departments have been far too slow in opening up the use of school grounds. 
The Department of Tourism and Recreation was established with the change of government in 1972. Previous governments over the years have been slow to recognise the importance of the tourist industry. I was one who welcomed the new Department. Towards the end of the office of the previous Liberal-Country Party administration there had been a greater acceptance of the importance of the industry. I held some hope- and still do- for what this new Department can achieve. 
I want to compliment the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  in a couple of respects. First of all, he has practised FederalState co-operation. He has administered his Department in co-operation with the State Ministers. I believe that this has been to the advantage of the Federal Government and of all Australians. I want to congratulate him equally on his assistance in regard to the creation of many recreational facilities. Many years ago I was the  Chairman  of the Playground and Recreation Association of Queensland and I was well aware of the important job that that community effort did in providing supervised playgrounds in the closely settled inner suburbs and the new sprawling outer ones. The Minister has been interested. He has travelled to my State, inspected facilities and helped that Association in a very worth while fashion. I have heard some fulsome and pleasant reports of a new playground being opened in the electorate of Bowman only a few weeks ago. A new one will be opened in my electorate in about a month's time. This is all very desirable and helpful. 
I simply take this opportunity of saying to the Minister and to the Government that if they want to find an industry which reflects private enterprise they need go no further than the tourist industry. This industry has been created on the enterprise of individuals. It is made up of a number of small components. It has taken this Government a long time- the Minister I think probably accepts this but I am certain some of his colleagues still do not- to realise the significance and the importance of private enterprise within the Australian community. An estimated 10 per cent of the work force is involved in the provision of tourist and ancillary services. The industry reflects the state of the economy. As the economy is managed so the industry is successful or otherwise. The industry cannot be divorced from the state of the economy. Therefore when we have an economy in which there is substantial inflation, of which a large amount is caused by wage demands, the tourist industry, which is one of the most labour intensive of all industries- the Minister certainly recognises this- has felt very severely the effects of some of the industrial awards, including wage demands, and the effects of the inflationary spiral. 
The industry faced with that problem and the problems of unemployment, lack of confidence and the creation of disincentive because of some taxation policy, has not progressed as we would all wish it to have done in the last few years. We have seen a growing problem arising from the gap between what is earned within Australia by the tourist industry and what is spent overseas. The further we have this inflationary problem the further we will have this gap. The latest figures I have show a gap of about $ 120m. 
The Minister tells me that on the latest figures he has it is nearly $170m; that is the difference between what is generated within Australia and what we spend overseas. This is a regrettable figure and one that we should seek to bring into balance by the correct development of tourist policies. Like the rest of the community the tourist industry needs some incentive. I am surprised that this Government, which formed the Mathews Committee and received its report, failed to act upon it. If the Government really wants to help the tourist industry it will implement many of the suggestions and recommendations of that Committee, such as inflation accounting, stock valuations, investment allowances and indexation for depreciation purposes. These things will make an enormous difference to the success or failure of many sections of this industry. We have heard so often lately of the problems of small business. So many of those small businesses are involved in servicing tourists, and they are the ones that are suffering. Regrettably many of the small businesses are finding it difficult not just to make a profit but difficult to fund their business and to keep sufficient liquidity to stay alive. 
The Minister, of course, will immediately think that I am suggesting that we should have some tax reductions. I am not suggesting that there should be an increased deficit or increased expenditure. I am simply saying that we should look at this matter, obtain funds by remedying some of the wastage that is occurring in a number of departments and use those funds to bring a greater degree of incentive back into the private sector of the Australian economy. The same problems arise in the manufacturing industry. If we create incentive and create a climate in which people will do well we will have a very real prosperity, and the tourist industry will be one of the earnest to reap benefit from this sort of approach. 
Let me take this opportunity of asking the Minister whether he will use his good offices to talk to his colleague, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  about the Coolangatta airport. The airport is the gateway to Australia's leading tourist resort. The facilities are so outdated as to make it quite uncomfortable for people arriving at this very significant tourist area. I have raised this matter continually in the last 3 years. The transport policies of this Government are making it almost impossible for the proper sort of facilities to be provided at airports. The policy of recovering its full costs is making it extremely difficult to provide the right sorts of facilities for the people who are moving around Australia. 
I conclude by saying that we are not going to have a change of government over tourist policy. Tourism is a significant industry and we as members of Parliament ought to recognise the importance of it. It employs 10 per cent of the Australian work force and has a capacity to increase our overseas earnings. Each and every one of us should be trying to develop policies which will stimulate and activate the potential growth we all know it has. We all know capital investment is down and that the return upon investments is poor, but we are not going to develop the tourist industry unless we have good international class hotels and first class facilities. There ought to be a real degree of agreement between members of the Parliament as to how we stimulate this important industry. I hope in future that all members of Parliament will be more greatly aware of the significance and the importance of it. 
The present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)-  has been in charge of this Department for only about 3 months, but his comments made at public meetings and at meetings of the Australian Science and Technology Council suggest that he will be energetic despite his reluctance to accept the portfolio. He talks of it as one of growing influence in the Australian community, a sentiment that I share because I believe that science and technology can contribute enormously to the nation. In practical forms it will mean greater productivity, more jobs, better conditions, better wages and greater leisure. We live in a competitive world and it is not possible for us to be able to afford to lag behind in that world-.It is about time that the present Government realy started to be energetic about science. One of the first acts of the Labor Party, despite its platform and despite the pledges made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and others prior to achieving office, was to disband the Science Advisory Council which had been set up by the previous Liberal-Country Party administration. For the best part of 2 years we had a vacuum. Whilst the previous Minister for Science,  Mr Morrison,  had Green Papers and White Papers published, they are no substitute for action. We had Virtually no action in science in the first 2 years or So of this Government. Looking at the national record it is fair to concede that it has been mixed. I believe that in primary industry we have made a very substantial contribution. In the time that I have had the responsibility of being the shadow Minister for Science I have not been able to ascertain the same success in the manufacturing industries. In fact there are many areas which deserve a great deal of interest. There needs to be greater knowledge and greater understanding. There needs to be more informed debate both inside this Parliament and outside it. There needs to be above everything else a community involvement, which has not been apparent in Australia. If we look at the reports of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development- I think that the Minister will agree with this commentwe find that compared with similar countries there is no doubt that we do not spend anywhere near as much as they do. We have a national responsibility and an international responsibility, particularly in the areas of health, primary production and primary nutrition so far as our close neighbours are concerned. 
I support the concept of a science statement. It would be very desirable if the Parliament and the. nation knew what was expended by the country in all fields of science. Not only do we want to know that; we want also greater accessibility of information. There is not much point in having spent a lot of money in gathering information if it is not reasonably accessible. We need to centralise that operation and I thought the opening of the science library at the National Library the other night was a step in the right direction. -The biggest allocation, about $ 120m, is for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, an honoured body with a world reputation and one whose strength depends on its independence and its totality. I know that the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs has gone on record about the independence of the CSIRO. He mentioned publicly that is should not be connected with the Public Service in any way. It is a pity he had not seen fit to make that statement immediately after he was appointed Minister because we had the regrettable step, the disgraceful step I believe, of an attempt being made by the Prime Minister, aided and abetted by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  to dismember the CSIRO by transferring the solar energy studies and the mineral research laboratories out of it and into the Public Service under the Minister for Minerals and Energy thus breaking an important inter-relationship between the divisions. 
I thought the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  tried to be of some assistance at that time. It took us weeks to sort out the situation. The Prime Minister was busy at that time belting himself into the ground, with marked success, in the Bass by-election and for weeks we had this problem about the CSIRO. We ended up with the compromise of control by 2 Ministers. I would like the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs to be good enough to comment on how he sees that situation. Does he believe that this decision has disturbed the totality of the CSIRO? Does he think that joint responsibility will work? I hope he will concede that in the meantime substantial damage has been done to the morale of many of the staff members of the Organisation. 
If that was not sufficient, only a few weeks later we had the crisis relating to the Australian Research Grants Committee. Again I would like the Minister to tell the House what is in his mind in regard to the triennial vote. We know that it has been reduced. We know that because of some bad planning and bad bookkeeping we had facing us the possible retrenchment of up to 350 skilled research workers. Again, after some weeks of substantial campaigning, particularly by the science community, success was gained with the aid of the Opposition and, I believe, with the aid of the Minister. We have now reached the stage where a loan of $2.1m has been arranged for the universities. Again I would like to ask the Minister to tell us about the future. We have overcome the short term problem but what is the future long term plan for the Australian Research Grants Committee. 
The Opposition welcomes the Australian Science and Technology Council and I want to thank the Minister for the courtesy of inviting me to its meetings. We are pleased to see that it is to be drawn from the entire community. At first glance its terms of reference appeal but we will wait with a great deal of interest to see the legislative form that the Government plans this Council to take. There is no doubt that we will study this legislation when we receive it with a great deal of interest, and I hope that this happens during this session of the Parliament. Had ASTEC been functioning earlier on I think we could have overcome some of the problems that this Government has faced. I refer to the regrettable position whereby the Government, on coming to office, sacked the Advisory Council and took so long to get the Australian Science and Technology Council moving. We Will again watch with interest the thrust of the Government's policies and how it sees the job of ASTEC. I read with interest the Minister's comments on it at the meeting on 18 July 1975 in which there is an indication that the Government wanted to see substantial interest in marine science and in astronomy. 
Surly one of the great problems we have in Australia is that of energy research. I would like the Minister to comment on the ministerial control of such research and how he sees the Government's priorities in that field which we of the Opposition regard as tremendously substantial and tremendously important. I hope the social sciences will not be overlooked. Man has to live within his environment and I hope that this Government and future governments will do what they can to encourage not only the universities but also private industry to take a very real interest in the social sciences. 
This is a significant department and one about which I have tried to learn in the five or six months that I have had some responsibility for it on behalf of the Opposition. It is crystal clear to me that for the sake of the nation we need much more informed debate free of a lot of the emotion which pervades many research areas. I think it might well be argued that an increasing share of national expenditure could be directed to this Department. I am not suggesting an increase in government expenditure in this Budget but I would have thought, from looking at some of the other departmental estimates, that there is evidence of substantial waste and some inefficiency. One would have hoped that this Department would have had a greater degree of priority. This is a Department which is worthy of greater expenditure, bearing in mind its significance. Finally, I hope we see a great deal of cooperation between the Government, the universities, the great institutes of Australia and industry. If we get that sort of co-operation, with the Government acting as a catalyst, I think it can make a massive contribution to national welfare and development. 
-The Travel Agents Bill and the Travel Agents (Deposits and Levies) Bill are not of a controversial nature. The Opposition largely supports them. Some amendments will be put by the Opposition and some by the Government which the Opposition will support. In talking about the travel industry we are talking about an industry which has made substantial development throughout Australia. There will of course be an enormous growth within the industry not only within Australia but also outside Australia. I would hope that all governments would wish to encourage the development and growth because the tourist industry- that is really what these bills are about- is one of the great growth industries of the world. When we consider that there is a gap of about $ 1 70m between what we earn from the tourist industry within Australia and what Australians spend overseas, there is much we can do to encourage a stable travel industry. We want to continue to encourage Australians travelling' overseas, but we want to encourage many more people from other countries to visit us. In the internal travel industry we want to have the highest possible standards. 
The Bills have been on the notice paper now for some months. As I indicated earlier, they have our support. We will in the Committee stage take the opportunity of making some comments upon the Government's amendments and would hope that the Government would consider very closely the amendments that we put to it. I compliment the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  on his capacity to consult. He is one of the few Ministers in the present Government who have widely done that. He has had substantial consultation with the industry, and that is important if it  is going to be successful and do the job that we all want it to do. The Minister has practised federalism. He has consulted with the States. Everybody will appreciate that the State governments have a very real and vital role in the tourist industry- a very real and vital role associated with this sort of legislation. Agreement with the States is going to mean so much more effective legislation, rather than different legislation in the various States of Australia. 
Let us not give him too great a compliment, but he certainly practises many of the elements of government which we encourage. This is one of the reasons he has been successful in his area whereas so many of his colleagues who have practised confrontation rather than consultation and who have practised centralism have been such dismal failures. However, the co-operation of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation has been evident. If we get co-operation between a federal government, State governments and the industry we will have stable growth and we will have the efficiency and the integrity we would all seek in every industry. This will ensure ethical conduct and it will ensure the maintenance of standards. It will also mean financial responsibility and financial stability. 
About 1500 agencies are involved in this industry throughout Australia. I have been informed that the annual commission sales are of the order of about $400m. That is a considerable turnover for any industry. Of course, it has contact with many Australians. I suppose that most Australians would have contact with the travel industry at some stage during the year. We recognise this as being important consumer legislation. The main thrust of these Bills is the protection of the consumers. We support that concept as long as in doing it the position remains workable for the travel agents themselves. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Tourism and Recreation acknowledged, and rightly so, that the overwhelming majority of agents have conducted their businesses in an honest and capable manner. In the period of nearly 3 years that I have been a member of Parliament I have not had one complaint from any of my constituents about this industry and those who are involved in it, but we are aware that there have been cases of dishonesty and incompetence. I hope that members of the Opposition will see fit during the debate to raise the matters which have come to their attention. The one that is in the minds of us all is the collapse of Travel House of Australia Pty Ltd in 1972, as a result of which literally hundreds of Australians were stranded in many parts of the world. That was of concern to the Government of the day. It was certainly of concern to the industry. I pay a compliment to my good colleague and friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who raised this particular matter very enthusiastically and properly in the House. I know that he was very concerned, that he did speak to a number of people about it and, indeed, that he acted very responsibly in bringing to the attention of the Parliament this regrettable lapse of competence and integrity by that company. 
I do not want to make detailed references to the Bill. Part I defines what the Government means regarding the business of a travel agent and refers to the appointment of a registrar of travel agents. Part II establishes the principal board which will be responsible for the conduct of this legislation. It will be called the Travel Agents Regulation Board. We were concerned about the membership of the Board being restrictive. The Government is to move an amendment, which the Opposition will support, that widens the membership of the Board, giving greater representation to the States and greater representation to the industry. That is essential and desirable. 
Part III refers to the restrictions that the legislation will place upon the conducting of their business by travel agents and lists the penalties that will be incurred if the legislation is not followed in practice. In some cases the penalties are quite severe. The Opposition agrees with that because, as I have said it recognises that this is important consumer protection legislation and that the penalties that flow from the ignoring of these restrictions and requirements are as necessary in this legislation as they are in similar types of legislation. Part III of the Bill also refers to the requirement that each authorised travel agency must be under the control of a registered travel agent manager. That is designed to ensure that the person who conducts the agency after it has been licensed will be somebody who has competence and expertise in this industry. That is also desirable. It should be not only of benefit to the industry but also should provide a greater degree of service to all Australians. 
Part IV goes on to analyse the 2 principal requirements. Firstly with regard to the licensing of the travel agency as a business, what the legislation demands and what we want to see is that people of integrity get licences. We want to be sure that people who get a licence have financial stability. We want to be sure, with regard to the travel agent, the manager who will have responsibility for the immediate control of the agency, that minimum standards have been set up and that the minimum qualifications and minimum requirements for experience are met. The Opposition completely supports those requirements. 
Part V goes into substantial detail as to what accounts and records would be needed to be maintained and kept. The provisions are proper; they are necessary. It is important that we have proper accounting procedures. I believe they are laid out quite effectively in the legislation and we have the added protection of the proposed fidelity fund. Part VI details the duties of the licensed travel agents. As time is pressing I will not go into detail on the later Parts of the Bill, but they refer to such matters as when a cancellation of a licence may be required, and the right of appeal. That latter provision is awfully important because a travel agent could be incorrectly charged with incompetence or lack of integrity, and a right of appeal is necessary. Experience will teach us in regard to the setting up of the fidelity fund, but the concept is good. It is accepted by the industry, it is accepted by the Government and of course it is accepted by the Opposition. 
As I indicated earlier, we will have some detailed comments to make in the Committee stage. I know that the Minister will deeply consider the amendments. I think we have 9 amendments to propose in the Committee stage. We believe that they will improve the Bill and make it more workable for the industry. However, we are overwhelmingly in favour of these Bills. We suggest that once they become law it will be necessary to review the Act in the light of experience. It is essential that the capacity for consultation with the industry and those involved in it should continue. As the legislation is seen to work and more amendments and alterations are required, after consultation with the industry we should seek with alacrity to maintain and improve the legislation. 
It is terribly important that we appreciate that legislation such as this is not designed in any way to hamper private enterprise. It is designed to assist it. I want to take the opportunity to indicate broadly the importance that the Opposition places upon any legislation such as this serving to assist to maintain free enterprise in a free and proper manner. Our whole tourist industry has been largely developed by private enterprise and the skill of individuals. This sort of legislation is valuable to the Parliament and to the nation only if it adds to the stability of the industry and if it gives to the industry the standards that it has sought to maintain and wishes to maintain. I think the Minister who has been in charge of this portfolio has accepted that view. I have discussed this matter with the Travel Agents' Association, with the Australian National Travel Association and with many operators in my electorate. 
As I represent the electorate of McPherson, which is deeply involved with the tourist industry, I am well aware of the need for this legislation. I am well aware of the disappointment of a number of people that there has been some delay in getting it into the House and through the Parliament. It has not been anybody's fault. It has not been the Government's fault and it has certainly not been the Opposition's fault that there has been a considerable delay in commencing this debate. At least the Bill has given us the opportunity of having the widest consultation. I think that only a matter of weeks ago further amendments were put to the Minister which he has considered. The delay has given the greatest opportunity for everybody to study the Bill and to that extent has .made some contribution to having more effective and efficient legislation. As I said, the Opposition basically supports the legislation. We believe it is workable. We believe it is in the interests of Australians, in the interests of industry and in the interests of good government that this sort of consumer protection legislation should go through. 
Debate interrupted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) (b), omit 'by delivering it to the Registrar', substitute 'by delivering the complaint to the Registrar together with a statutory declaration of a person having personal knowledge of the facts specified in the complaint verifying those facts'. 
The amendment relates to complaints to the board about the conduct of a travel agent. The Registrar and other people can complain, and the Opposition is concerned that there ought to be a tightening of the arrangement under which a complaint can be made. We want any person complaining to the Registrar to include a statutory declaration of the person having personal knowledge of the facts specified in the complaint. Would the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  like to respond to this suggestion? We should bear in mind that although this is consumer protection legislation there are rights which have to be maintained for the travel agents. If there are to be complaints, it is reasonable that we should give sufficient protection to the agent to see that those complaints are real and can be verified. 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2). 
At present sub-clause (2) (b) reads:  to bring the Board into disrepute in connexion with an inquiry or proposed inquiry under this Act. 
It is most important when an inquiry is being conducted that we have a real degree of reason and fairness. We question the need for these words. We are concerned that they might rule out reasonable criticism. This is a matter of significance to the Opposition. I understand that this principle has arisen in other legislation; it is one that we will press to the limit as much as we possibly can. I would like the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  to give some consideration to whether sub-clause (2)(b) is necessary or whether it unfairly restricts the right of people in an inquiry. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (3 ) add the following sub-clauses: 
Where the Board decides not to make a payment to the claimant from the Fund under this Part and also decides that the claim was frivolous or vexatious, the Board may direct the claimant- 
to pay to the travel agent concerned, on account of the expenses incurred by him in connexion with the claim, a sum determined by the Board, being the sum not exceeding the amount of those expenses; or 
to pay to a person who has appeared before the Board as a witness in connexion with the claim a sum, by way of fees and allowances for expenses in respect of his attendance, fixed by the Board in accordance with the regulations. 
Where a claimant is directed by the Board under subsection (4) to pay a sum to a person, the sum is recoverable from the claimant in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due by the claimant to the person.' 
This clause refers to consideration of claims by the Board. The Opposition is concerned that, where we do have frivolous or vexatious claims and the Board decides not to make a payment, there ought to be some protection given to a travel agent or to a witness. The purpose of the amendment is to enable the Board to direct the claimant in those circumstances to find expenses incurred by the travel agent in connection with the claim, the sum, of course, to be determined by the Board. Equally, a person who has appeared as a witness should be able to be reimbursed for expenses, fees and allowances. I would like the Minister to give the Government's response to that proposal. Here again we seek reasonable protection for those who are involved in the business of a travel agent against some people who may misuse the consumer protection legislation which this Bill will enact. 

In sub-clause (4) (a), omit ', by a law of a Territory or by a law of a State', substitute 'or by a law of a Territory'. 
In sub-clause (4) (b), omit 'or a State'. 
These amendments are designed to exclude the authorities of a State from the application of the Act. It seems to us that there is no need for this Act to include the question of the law of a State. So the 2 amendments are designed to omit the words 'by a law of a State' in sub-clause 4 (a) and the words 'or a State' in sub-clause 4 (b). I would like the Minister for Tourism and Recreation to explain to me, if he does not accept these amendments, why he sees the need for the words which we suggest should be omitted to stand part of the Bill. 
The Opposition accepts the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 6, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 7 agreed to. 
Clause 8. 
1 ) The Board shall consist of 3 members, namely: 
a chairman; 
a deputy chairman; and 
1 other member. 
A person shall not be appointed as the  chairman  unless he is enrolled as a legal practitioner of the High Court, of another federal court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory and has been so enrolled for not less than 5 years. 
A person is not eligible to be appointed as the deputy chairman unless he is an officer of the Department of Tourism and Recreation. 
A person is not eligible to be appointed as the member referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) (c) unless he has knowledge of, and experience concerning, the business of travel agents" 
The  chairman  and the member referred to in paragraph (1) (c) shall each be appointed by the Minister and shall each, subject to this Part, hold office for such period, not exceeding 3 years, as the Minister specifies in his instrument of appointment, but are eligble for reappointment. 
A person who has attained the age of .65 years shall not be appointed or re-appointed as a member, and a person shall not be appointed or re-appointed as a member for a period that extends beyond the date on which he will attain the age of 65 years. 
The deputy chairman shall be appointed by the Minister and hold office during his pleasure. 
The Opposition supports the amendment although the concern expressed by the Opposition is real enough and the Minister well knows that this was one matter which the travel agents themselves were very concerned about. The Minister has spoken to them on a number of occasions about it, as have  Senator Rae  and myself. Sub-clause 8 (6) of the amendment states: 
A person is not eligible to be appointed as the member referred to in paragraph (1) (c) or as a deputy member unless he has a knowledge of, and experience concerning, the business of travel agents. 
To help the Committee would the Minister be prepared to indicate with regard to this subclause whether he will see that, firstly, the States are represented and, secondly, that the industry is widely represented? 
I ask the Minister a question in relation to clause 2 1 , which states: 
A natural person who has attained the age of 2 1 years may make application to the Board as prescribed for registration as a travel agent manager. 
Has any thought been given to reducing that age to 1 8 years? 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), after paragraph (b), insert the following paragraph: (ba) shall set out, or be accompanied by a document setting out, particulars of the premises or of each of the premises, as the case may be, at which the applicant proposes to carry on business as a travel agent, being particulars furnished with a view to satisfying the Board that the premises, or each of the premises, are suitable premises in which to carry on the business of a travel agent;' 
After sub-clause (4) add the following sub-clause: 
An applicant for the grant of a licence or licences shall, at least 7 days before furnishing his application to the Registrar in accordance with this section, cause a notice of his intention to make the application containing the prescribed particulars of the application to be published in a newspaper or in newspapers, as prescribed. '. 
The clause sets out the requirements when people are making applications for a licence. It is the view of a number of people in the industry and of the Opposition that the Government ought to consider setting out in some manner the particulars of the premises or of each of the premises, as the case may be, at which the applicant proposes to carry on business as a travel agent, being particulars furnished with a view to satisfying the Board that the premises, or each of the premises, are suitable premises in which to carry on the business of a travel agent. I would like the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  to respond as to whether he would see a requirement for this sort of approach in the Bill. 
The second amendment requires that an applicant for the grant of a licence or licences shall, at least 7 days before furnishing his application to the registrar in accordance with this section, cause a notice of his intention to make an application containing the prescribed particulars of application to be published in a newspaper or in newspapers as prescribed. We feel that these would both be desirable amendments which would ensure greater standards in the Bill as regards the requirements to obtain a licence as a travel agent. I would like the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and the Government to give consideration to their inclusion. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1) after '25 (2) (b)' insert 'and that the premises or each of the premises so specified are suitable premises in which to carry on the business of a travel agent '. 
This amendment follows from the previous amendment. The same argument as was used previously would apply here. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 27 and 28- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 29. 
Sub-section 25 (5) applies in relation to the signature of an application under this section in like manner as it applies in relation to the signature of an application under section 25. 

After clause 36 insert the following new clause in Fart IV: '36a.  (  1) An applicant, within the meaning of Division 2 of this Part, may, in such manner and within such time as are prescribed, appeal to the Supreme Court of a State or Territory from a decision of the Board to refuse to grant an application made by him under that Division. '(2) The Registrar shall be respondent in the appeal. '(3) The Supreme Court of each State is invested with federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred on the Supreme Court of each Territory, to hear and determine appeals under this section. '(4) Where an applicant appeals to a Supreme Court under this section, the Court shall hear and determine the appeal and may make such order as it thinks appropriate by reason of its decision, including an order directing the Board to grant the application. '(5) Where a Supreme Court makes an order directing the Board to grant an application, the Board shall give effect to the direction.'. 
The Opposition is concerned about the matter of appeals. Clause 36 limits the right of an appeal. Our amendment gives the Supreme Court of a State or Territory the right to hear an appeal and makes the Registrar the respondent. If the Supreme Court makes an order the Board would have to give effect to that direction. The question of how far one goes on appeals is a difficult one. 
We believe that the Bill, in its present form, falls short of the requirement of fairness in this area. I should like the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  to respond as to whether he can accept the amendment or whether he at least accepts that there ought to be some administrative body set up to hear appeals so that we can have a greater degree of objectivity and fairness concerning them. 
-I ask the Treasurer: Is it a fact that the Government has in previous years allowed representatives of employer organisations who have been traditionally expected to make public comment on the Budget into the pre-Budget lock-up with media representatives in the various capital cities? Why is it that on the morning of the Budget this year an official of the Sub-Treasury informed the Chamber of Manufactures in Brisbane that the representatives of employer organisations were to be specifically excluded from the lock-up this year? Did the Treasurer issue that directive? How does he reconcile it with the decision to give the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade 
Unions and the Australian Labor Party a special early afternoon briefing without the security of the lock-up? 
The States Grants Bill is concerned with giving financial assistance to the States for general revenue purposes. Honourable members will be well aware of the difficulty in arriving at financial arrangements between governments in Australia. We have seen year after year, when the Liberal and National Country parties were in government and certainly since the Australian Labor Party came to office, the annual wrangling at the Premiers Conference and at the Loan Council meetings. This wrangling, the bitterness that has been engendered at these meetings, and the facade that has been raised at such times has not been of assistance in arriving at suitable arrangements between the States and the Australian Government with regard to financial assistance. The present Government by its attitude to the States, not only in this matter but in a number of others, has added enormously to this tension. Of course it is the blatant centralist policies of the present Government which have caused this increasing bitterness to occur. 
The Opposition parties, using their temporary period in Opposition, have prepared a new policy on federalism. It is a new policy which is designed to facilitate the financial arrangements between the States and the Commonwealth. I use this opportunity to put on record some of the advantages with regard to the Opposition policy because it has been misinterpreted and distorted by a number of people. The policy during its preparation was checked in all detail with a variety of experts, including present and past members of the Grants Commission, former senior members and officers of Federal and State Treasuries, members of the Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations at the Australian National University, academic lawyers, prominent economists and political scientists. 
The Opposition policy aims at creating a government in Australia responsive to the needs of the people and of the community. It seeks to provide and encourage wider participation and expression by individuals and the community in the 3 spheres of government. The policy clearly defines responsibilities for finance and functions and provides mechanisms for co-operation and co-ordination between Federal, State and local government. It ensures that the centralist ambition of denying individual freedom by containing power in Canberra shall not become a reality. Fundamental points in the policy are based on the belief that the government which spends the money should be responsible for raising the taxes. This permits a curb on wasteful spending and gives freedom in decision making and acceptance of responsibility. Recognition is given to the special problems of the less populous States through an effective equalisation system. At the same time recognition is given to the requirement of orderly financial management that the Commonwealth remains the sole collector of income tax, giving it overall responsibility for national economic management. 
The policy eliminates the subservient status of the States, which will no longer be forced to approach the Federal Government cap in hand. The States are tired of this cap in hand approach which has been forced upon them now for many years. A Liberal-National Country Party coalition government will give the States permanent access to revenue raised through personal income tax. In future Commonwealth, State and local authority taxes will be separately identified on one tax assessment so that every taxpayer will see the amount levied for each form of government. 
-I am happy with that. 
This new system will ensure that the States will have substantially the financial capacity to meet their responsibilities. The Grants Commission will be fully retained with regard to existing State functions. The Commission will have a special responsibility to ensure full and continuous equalisation for the less populous States under the new federalism policy. The Opposition parties are convinced that national objectives can be fully asserted and social reforms achieved and maintained with much more selective use of special purpose grants and without heavy-handed interference and duplication. Programs financed by special grants which are not well established and accepted will be transferred to the States with the appropriate adjustments in State revenues. Special grants will be used where necessary to initiate programs in agreed areas of national need, to encourage innovation and to meet special situations, but not to make inroads into the constitutional responsibilities of the States. A fixed percentage of personal income tax will be earmarked for distribution throughout the States to local government to provide a weighted  per capita  grant to all local government bodies- an equalisation or topping up grant to be distributed through State Grants Commissions. A council for intergovernment relations will be established and will include Federal, State and local government representatives and a number of citizens. It will provide a permanent dialogue between all spheres of government and will have wide advisory and investigatory powers. The Premiers' Conference will become a much more realistic forum for economic debate and the rationalisation of problems. That is well and truly overdue. 
Of course all members of the Parliament will be aware that when this policy was released some weeks ago it was greeted very favourably by virtually all the major media channels in Australia. The policy represents the combined viewpoint of the Liberal and National Country Parties at their organisational, State and Federal parliamentary levels. It has been acknowledged by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations as being 'in line with the general policy of the Australian Council and a document which we most certainly support'. Because the federalism policy threatens to destroy its whole centralist power base the Labor Government has made feverish attempts to denigrate it. Those attempts have made little public impact. They are based on false fears and distortions and do not survive calm analysis. They should be viewed against the Labor Party's stated objectives to get rid of the Senate and the State parliaments and to amalgamate all municipalities and shires into a handful of regions wholly responsible to Canberra. 
Let us consider what the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  had to say about this matter. First of all, let us consider his concept of an all powerful House of Representatives. This takes on substantial importance in view of the great debate which is going on within Australia today. He said: 
We would not have a federal system of overlapping parliaments and a delegated but supervised system of local government. We would have a House of Representatives for nation-wide and international matters, an assembly for each of our dozen largest cities and a few score regional assemblies for the areas of rural production and resources development outside those cities. 
Let all Australians understand that the Prime Minister for years has gone on record as saying that he wants to get rid of State parliaments and be rid of the Senate. Of course we all know the massive contribution which the Senate makes to ensuring that the small States are represented. Those comments by the Prime Minister were made in a local government lecture in May 1 970. When the Prime Minister talked about his recipe for the destruction of the States he said to his State colleagues: 
Much can be achieved by Labor members of the State Parliaments in effectuating Labor's aims of more effective powers for the national Parliament and for local government. Their role - 
This is the federal leader of the Labor Party speaking to his own people-  is to bring about their own dissolution. 
In Queensland the members of the State Labor Party have not brought about their own dissolution but they have almost brought about their own disappearance because of the 82 seats in the Queensland Parliament they can muster only eleven. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I think the honourable member should keep his remarks to the Bill. 
-I think that comment flowed on from what the Prime Minister has said. Let me move on to what the Prime Minister had to say about this policy. In criticising the federalism policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties he said that it will allow the States to impose income tax on every Australian in addition to the normal income tax that all of us pay now. In other words, he is saying that there will be double taxation. The Prime Minister is deliberately distorting the facts. 
That is not new. State income tax will not be imposed in addition to the normal income tax. The federalism plan provides that the States will be given access to a percentage of personal income tax equal to the general reimbursement grants now received by the States from the Commonwealth. The State income tax will not be in addition to them; it will be a substitute for the current reimbursement grants. An effective federal system, by reducing duplication and extravagance and by sheeting home responsibility, will allow for overall tax reduction. The Whitlam Government is clearly the double tax bandit. Let us look at the record of the Whitlam Government. It has taken 72 years of Commonwealth government, from 1901 to 1973, for the annual Commonwealth expenditure to reach $ 10,000m. In just 2 years the Whitlam Government has more than doubled it to $2 1,000m. In those 2 years sales tax revenue has doubled, excise duty revenue has doubled and pay-as-you-earn taxation has increased by nearly three times. That is the record of the present Government. 
The Whitlam Government has squeezed the States by the denial of adequate funds and by the pressure of record inflation. This has forced the States to impose and increase a wide range of indirect taxes and charges in order to survive. Indirect taxation is regressive. It hurts the lower income earners most and it aggravates inflation. The second criticism which the Prime Minister levelled was: 
The effect of tax indexation would be to reduce the revenues going to the Federal Government. There would be a smaller share to the States whose own taxes would have to be very steep indeed. 
It is extraordinary that the Prime Minister should talk about tax indexation when this Government set up the Mathews Committee which came out with the unanimous submissions that there ought to be tax indexation for both corporate and private taxpayers in Australia. The present Government has completely ignored that finding. It might be just as well to remind the House that federalism is working satisfactorily in Canada alongside tax indexation. Tax indexation does not reduce revenue. It reduces the rate at which the revenue grows. Under stable economic conditionswe have not had those for 3 years- the States would be very happy to have their main source of revenue growing at the same rate as personal income taxation. Such a condition has not appertained under uniform taxation. Tax indexation policies are vital to restoring the health of the economy, thereby boosting the real tax base and the growth of tax revenue. That is what is so significant- to get the economy moving again, to get some incentive back into the Australian economy. The third comment which the Prime Minister made was: 
My Government has no intention of allowing the smaller and less populous States like Tasmania and Western Australia to come off badly compared with the bigger and the richer States. 
It might be interesting for people to recall that the Lyons Government, an anti-Labor government, first brought in the Grants Commission. I think it was introduced in the late 1920s or perhaps in 1930 when State income tax did exist. The prime reason for its introduction by the then Prime Minister, the late  Mr Lyons,  was that the Grants Commission's primary task was and still is to provide equalisation with regard to both fiscal capacity and needs. I quote again from the Liberal-Country Party's federalism policy. It is quite specific. I cannot understand why the Prime Minister and his Ministers cannot understand it. It states: 
It is intended that the principle of equalisation and the current advantages accruing to the less populous States vis-a-vis New South Wales and Victoria shall be sustained at all stages. 
Consultation with present and past members of the Commonwealth Grants Commission during the preparation of this policy confirmed that our intentions to protect the less populous States will be fully realised. Currently the Grants Commission takes into account the unequal capacities of the various States to levy a variety of indirect taxes and charges. It compensates the less populous States for their relative inadequacies. 
The fourth criticism the Prime Minister made- he made others but they would not really warrant even discussing- was with regard to setting up grants commissions within the States to handle the problems of local authorities.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
The Fraser alternative to this system- incredible as it sounds- is to set up 7 grants commissions- the one we have now and one for each State. 
That is true. We would set up grants commissions within the States for submissions from local authorities. The thrust of the Prime Minister's argument is that bureaucracy would be greatly increased. What an extraordinary statement from a leader of a government which has had an enormous increase in bureaucracy in the 3 years it has been in office. Again I say that the Prime Minister is distorting the facts when he says that there will be a proliferation of bureaucracy under the federalism proposal and states, when referring to grants commissions, 'the one we have now and one for each State '. 
State grants commissions were in existence in a number of States prior to the entry of the Whitlam Government into local government financing. Those State grants commissions still exist. Indeed there is great merit in having grants commissions within the States which are closer to local authorities. I concede that some substantial amounts of money have been given to local authorities but I hope that the Minister or anybody else who speaks in this debate will not claim that the local authorities throughout Australia are entirely happy. They are far from happy. If we had grants commissions closer to local government thereby having greater understanding and knowledge I believe local authorities would be far more successful. Under the Labor Government policies the Commonwealth Grants Commission has been forced to expand substantially. When relieved of the need to amass particular data at the local government level for all States, the Commonwealth body will be able to reduce its functions in that sphere and concentrate on its primary role of State equalisation. 
I am not going to suggest that we will not have some problems. I am not suggesting that when we implement this policy- and we are not many weeks away from doing that- there will not be fields of disputation. The Opposition's policies are designed to provide mechanisms to overcome these things. The Council for Intergovernmental Relations is one mechanism. The main gains would be a return to responsibility to government, the removal of waste and duplicationthere has been an extraordinary amount of evidence of that in recent years- greater participation of the community in government and the enhancement of local government. We will, on achieving office, regard this policy as a matter of priority. It has been, as I said earlier, thoroughly researched. We have complete agreement within the States. The policy will help to bring a greater degree of efficiency in the management of this nation's financial affairs. Of course such obvious blunders have been made in that area by the present Government. Our policy will bring some incentive back into the community. If there is one thing this nation needs it is to have some incentive for people to get out and to see the nation grow and develop again. 
The policy will get rid of the obsession by some members of the Government with socialism and will get rid of the obsession by all members, as far as I can make out, with centralism. We will bring back a real relationship between the 3 tiers of government. We support the 3 tiers of government. Unlike the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who is trying to interject, we do not want to get rid of the Senate or the State parliaments. That is his Party's policy. We want to see that these 3 tiers of government work effectively for the benefit of the Australian nation. This policy will be implemented with a great deal of" alacrity and we will then see a greater capacity for government to be closer to the people, wasteful expenditure cease and altogether a greater degree of efficiency and cooperation right throughout the entire community. 
In the debate on the appropriateness of the economic measures taken by the Government the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  referred to the need to reduce taxation in the Federal sphere and the need to provide subventions to the States to enable them to reduce their taxes. He also referred to the need to increase expenditure on productive work, particularly in the private enterprise sector. He spoke of the employment implications of such action. In recent times some criticism has been levelled at the savings bonds scheme recently introduced by the Government. The Government's policy on wage indexation has also been criticised. Implicit in the arguments advanced in this debate is that the Budget deficit should be increased rather than decreased as proposed by the Government. It is not therefore unreasonable to ask: Why is the Government cutting the deficit? Will that not depress activity further? Ten years ago such a question might have sounded sensible. Today it merely reveals an utterly mistaken diagnosis of the problem. 
The Government's economic strategy is designed to steer the economy on the path of a formally based recovery. The problem is that until inflation and inflationary expectations are curbed there can be no lasting economic recovery. It is true that cutting Government expenditures, in order to reduce the deficit, will depress activity in the Government sector. It will in some cases reduce demands on, and activity in, the private sector.' But unless inflation and inflationary expectations can be curbed any depressive effects of that kind will be far outweighed by a renewed decline in the private sector generally. That is why the huge deficits of the recent past have had such counter productive effects on overall activity. The inflationary expectations they have generated have led to a sharp cutback in business investment and a notable increase in squirrelling by consumers. The savings ratio went up from 9.7 per cent in 1 97 1 -72 to 17 per cent in 1974-75. That is essentially why a Budget deficit in the order of $4.7m and a consequential money supply growth rate of 20 per cent per annum or more- that is, the Hayden Budget -was a recipe not for recovery but merely for a pause in the further downward slide. That is why cutting back the deficit is the fundamental task confronting the Government. The old fashioned Keynesianism inherent in the question is increasingly discredited. Even the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  said in his Budget speech last yean 
We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in unemployment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
All around the world this unpalatable truth is being recognised. Even in the home of 
Keynesianism, the United Kingdom and under a Labour government, the futility of piling on new deficits in order to soak up the unemployment created by the interminable succession of previous deficits is at long last being discerned as unemployment moves towards the 1.5 million mark and well over half the economy is now in the Government sector. It may very well be that vigorous action to cut back the deficit and rein in the destructive growth of the money supply will produce some temporary short term costs in terms of level of activity overall. It is certainly true that the 6.4 per cent national wage decision unfortunately makes that much more likely. What has to be faced up to is that there is no longer any alternative unless we are prepared to abandon our present form of society. We, the Government, were elected above all to ensure that we avoided such a fate. 
The Government's economic strategy is designed to steer the economy onto the path of a firmly based recovery. Central to this strategy is the successful combatting of inflation so as to restore business and consumer confidence and thereby encourage the revival in consumption and business investment that is needed for a sustained recovery. The recovery must be both gradual and balanced if it is to be sustained; otherwise the upturn in activity may be aborted by supply constraints resulting in a resurgence of inflationary pressures and import spill-over. Decisive measures are required immediately to regenerate the economy and these will be taken in the context of an overall strategy designed to operate over the term of the Government. Together with a commitment to more stability in policy, the adoption of such a long term program will give recognition to the capacity of the economy to adjust and will provide an overall framework within which budgetary, monetary and other decisions can be taken. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Press statement of 16 December 1975: 
Because of the continuing risk of re-igniting inflation, there can be no question of trying to pull out of the recession at break-neck speed. Our overall strategy calls for a shift of emphasis away from the Government sector towards the private sector. 
The dramatic slump in investment activity during 1 974-75 has curtailed both the short and the long term productive capacity of the economy. Recovery may be nipped in the bud if available business capacity proves insufficient to meet strengthening demand. It is not a question of whether the recovery will be investment led or consumer led as whether available resources can cope with future demand. The Government's strategy aims, therefore, to prevent such an imbalance from developing by ensuring that the recovery in investment follows closely the recovery in other components of demand. The Government has set about encouraging an investment revival at an earlier stage than would otherwise be the case by creating an environment conducive to an optimistic, expansionist business outlook. The extent of the slump in business activity during 1974-75 also means that recovery initially will be quite gradual as it will take time to revive a mood of confidence, among consumers and businessmen alike, after a long period of years of double digit inflation. Of course, gradual recovery is less likely to give rise to severe demand/supply imbalances and that is all to the good. In the interests of a sustained recovery, steady rather than dramatic and short lived progress should be encouraged. 
Recent experience has demonstrated the undesirable effects of sudden and large changes in policy direction. We have plenty of examples of that over the last 3 years. The cyclical downswing in 1974, for example, although a world wide phenomenon in industrialised countries, was aggravated in Australia's case by an unduly restrictive monetary policy. More recently, due mainly to the impact of a growing Budget deficit, the monetary situation was permitted by the previous Government to move from one of excessive restraint to one of excessive liquidity. As a result, the Government introduced the special monetary policy package on 22 January. Likewise, the rapid transfer of resources from the private to the Government sector during recent years has had the effect of undermining the capacity of the private sector to produce, to invest and to provide employment. In the light of these experiences the Government is convinced of the need for a more constant and gradual monitoring of economic policy, thereby promoting long term recovery free of interference from erratic changes in policy positions. 
Action has been taken or is in hand to give effect to the Government's policy. Antiinflationary policies include cuts in Government spending designed to check the growth in the Budget deficit and, in turn, the effect of the deficit on liquidity; a monetary policy package designed to drain off excess liquidity and restore business confidence; a reasonable stance adopted in the Government's submission to the national wage case. Other measures are investment policies such as the introduction of the 40 per cent investment allowance, the temporary suspension of quarterly company tax instalments and substantial cuts in borrowing costs. 
In reference to unemployment, the Government is committed to a policy of reducing the record levels of unemployment inherited from the previous Labor administration. Unless inflation rates can be brought down, however, there can be no sustained revival in private sector demand, no lasting recovery in activity and hence no permanent reduction in unemployment. Policies being pursued to control inflation and to stimulate investment activity are central to the Government's policy of creating more job opportunities. While unemployment rates between countries are not precisely comparable, the level of unemployment in Australia under Labor increased faster than in any of our major trading partners. In the course of the downturn the unemployment rate in Australia trebled while in the United States of America and Canada it about doubled. In the main, present unemployment derives from the recession created by Labor's policies. Particular points of relevance are the high level of inflation permitted in 1974 and 1975; the very sharp squeeze on profits, the 1974 credit squeeze and the basic shift of profits as a percentage of GDP below their historical norm of about 15 per cent; the 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts, the structural dislocation associated with the rapid transfer of resources to the public sector; and the collapse of business confidence. The Government's policy is directed towards bringing about a firmly based recovery in the private sector, which provides three out of every four jobs in Australia. Fundamental to the policy is the control of inflation, stimulation of investment and the return of business and consumer confidence. 
The first 6 months in office will be used to establish new management procedures for the control of spending and the administration of government programs. The process of reining in the growth of expenditure is essential if control of the nation's monetary and financial policies is to be regained. Without rigid controls on government expenditure the longer run objectives of tax reforms to which we are committed cannot be met. 
The policies of the former Government which resulted in a doubling of government expenditure in 3 years had the following consequences: A significant increase in personal income tax, leading to increased wage and salary pressures as tax compensation was fed into the wage bargaining process; a Budget deficit which would have exceeded $4.7 billion in 1975-76- more than $1.9 billion higher than estimated in August- and a rate of increase in the money supply of more than 20 per cent in 1975; a rapid transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector- outlays increased from about 25 per cent of GDP in 1973-74 to about 31 per cent in 1975-76- causing serious adjustment problems and an erosion of business confidence; and a marked increase in community expectations which, in turn, has contributed significantly to inflationary pressures. 
The Government's strategy clearly recognises that unless inflation is brought under control unemployment will remain high. The reduction in government spending is the first necessary step to reduce inflation and to provide the scope for a revival of private sector activity and a return to a prosperous economy. The Government intends to effect stringent economies and to put an end to the recent period of wasteful extravagance under the previous Labor administration. In this we are determined in the national interest. In summary, the Government is convinced that its package of economic measures is appropriate to the current circumstances in Australia. 
Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1972-1974 1 present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 3 1 (3) of the Postal and Telecommunications Commission (Transitional Provisions) Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Postmaster-General's Department for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-1949 I present the report of the Auditor-General on the accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
My understanding from the Australian Telecommunications Commission is that it has improved the time lag between the application for and the installation of telephones, more so in the capital cities than in the country areas. I will have discussions with the Commission. Honourable members will recall that the setting up of the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission was a decision of the previous Government. We had some reservations. The commissions have been operating only since last July. It is a question of giving them time to see how they operate. From my discussions with them I believe they are making very valiant attempts to improve the service. I will certainly make the inquiries that the honourable gentleman has asked me to make. With regard to Parliament being informed, irrespective of whether we have a commission, we cannot ignore our responsibility to the Australian electorate. While the commissions are basically designed on business efficiency lines there is a social as well as an economic requirement of them. That will be watched. I have asked the commissions to keep me fully informed. I am certain the Parliament will keep the nation fully informed. 
The ban affected about 17 000 telephone installations, 5000 of them through faults. It caused tremendous inconvenience all over Australia. In my discussions with the Australian Telecommunications Commission I have not been able to get a definite date as to when the backlog will be sorted out because the ban was lifted only on Monday. I am assured that Telecom is making every effort particularly to fix faults affecting business and commerce, and to do everything possible to reduce any inconvenience caused. 
-It is true that the increase in postage costs, which is of course a decision of the independent Australian Postal Commission, has had an effect of reducing the volume of work going through the Postal Commission. In the Budget documents which I have seen, the Commission allowed for a decrease in the volume of business because of its increased charges. There is no doubt that many businesses, both small and large, are today delivering, particularly within capital cities. This means increasing loss of business to the Commission. It is true that a lot of mail is delivered to post office boxes. As to the investigation of some reduction for local delivery, I have indicated that I want to discuss this matter with the Commission. It is not the first time that it has been raised. It will be discussed with the Commission in the next week or two. 
It was not my intention to speak in this debate, but the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  made some thoughtful comments. This is a matter in which he has taken a great deal of interest. He invited me to reply to them before the debate was finalised. Despite the speeches, there is no basic disagreement about this Bill. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  the shadow Treasurer, claimed it was an Australian Labor Party Bill because it was introduced in the last Parliament. As the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  so rightly pointed out, it implements a scheme of grants which were decided in consultation with the States in the 1970-71 period. 
Despite the problems that the then Government had leading up to 1972, 1 think we had a very real degree of co-operation between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments in the years 1971 and 1972. Our attitude was one of consultation and cooperation. Despite what members of the Opposition say, for the 3 years they were in government, although some of their schemes may have been desirable and may have been designed to assist the States, there was an attitude of confrontation. It was not a question of content in all cases. It was certainly a question of style. So we had divisiveness, duplication, and a lack of efficiency in administration in government. 
There was a Premiers Conference on 4 and 5 February. It was outstandingly successful. The 
Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  took the opportunity to discuss with all State Premiers the initial implementation of the policy on federalism which had been developed, with a lot of research and a lot of work, when the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party were in Opposition. The Premiers Conference overwhelmingly supported the concept and believed that the policy on federalism as enunciated would be a succesful one. Of course it is very complex. Of course a lot of details must be worked out. A lot of mechanics are yet to be resolved. It started off very well. It is progressing very well. 
The honourable member for Lilley, who is a good Queenslander and a good Australian, of course, raises the problem which is in his mind about equity for smaller States. This concern is shared by  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the Treasurer of Queensland, who said: 'I am going to look closely at any policy, at any document which flows on from the policy'. What would one expect a Treasurer to do other than to look very closely? That is his job. But as he sees the policy unfold he, like all other Australians, will come to see it for the contribution it will make to the Australian economy. I simply want to say to the honourable member for Lilley that his comments have already been noted by me. I will discuss them with the Treasurer. As to his concern about equity so far as the smaller States are concerned, particularly with regard to the loan program and the grants element within that, this is a matter of course for the Australian Loan Council. The comments that the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  have made about the role of the Grants Commission will be given every attention. 
The Parliament ought to know that assurances have been given time and time again by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer that this policy will work for the benefit of the 3 tiers of government. It will work for the benefit of the States and local authorities- and any of us who have had some association directly or indirectly with local authorities know of the problems which they have in compiling their budgets. We have an assurance from the Leader of the Government which is backed up by his entire Ministry and Party. We believe that with consultation and co-operation we will achieve a greater degree of efficiency and a greater avoidance of the duplication and intense rivalry which led to inefficiency and maladministration. We will develop a policy which is in keeping with the spirit of the Federation of States within the Commonwealth. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
This is the first that I have heard of this matter. I am certain that it has been raised by the honourable member as part of the Opposition's concern about matters of political fund raising. 
The honourable member can make comment on these matters, which he knows are of little or of no significance. It really will not make any difference to the issue which is interesting all Australians today. 
The ABC is an independent Commission. We all seek to uphold that even though we may sometimes differ as to how it reflects its independence. The ABC is, of course, in charge of its own programming. Whilst I will take note of the matter raised by the honourable member and have some discussions with the ABC concerning it, I think it is worth saying at this stage that the budget cuts within the ABC were part of the Government's policy. They were applied to the Commission in a fairminded way. I understand that it is looking at its programming with a view to minimising any loss of service to the Australian community. I hope there is a great degree of co-operation between the administration and the staff. I hope that the discussions which are going on in Sydney today will achieve just that end. I will bear in mind the comments of the honourable member. 
I want to respond specifically to some of the points raised in the debate. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  challenged the Government to publish forecasts of unemployment, before and after the economic measures taken by the Government. What did the previous Labor administration do about informing the Parliament on Treasury forecasts? For all the talk of the Opposition now, the former Government which had its chance to do so never took the Parliament or the nation into its confidence. Was it because when Labor was in office, forecasts, if produced, would have shown that inflation was rising and that unemployment was rising? Was it because the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia were telling the former Government that its policies would lead to the sort of catastrophe which occurred under it and which this Government inherited a few months ago? 
Regarding that extraordinary speech by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  all 
I want to say is that if there was anyone in the Labor administration who understood the need to cut the deficit it would have been the honourable member for Oxley. It must be remembered that it was he who tried to reverse the huge spending habits that had developed under the 2 former Treasurers. The honourable member for Oxley implied that huge deficits did not really matter because they merely reflected a reduction in the rate of growth of average weekly earnings. That is the view which he puts now. However, no matter what the source of increase in the deficit is, if it is domestic it has the same impact on the money supply. An increase of nearly $2 billion in the deficit, no matter how it is caused domestically, will add enormously to the money supply, and fuel inflation unless its impact can be offset by the use of monetary policy. In financing the deficit the Government will endeavour to prevent its monetary impact from giving a huge boost to the money supply. Stringent budgetary restraint and our stance on wages are being backed up by effective monetary measures to curb excess liquidity, but there will be no credit squeeze. Financial institutions will be able to underwrite economic recovery. The policy is directed at reaping the full benefits of removing excess liquidity while improving the climate for business expansion and promoting economic recovery. I was a little surprised to hear the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  make some disparaging remarks about the investment allowance. In my view, its reintroduction is one of the most desirable decisions of the Government since we came to office. 
The honourable member for Oxley made great play on the Government's not announcing the full year effects of the measures taken by us to reduce the Budget deficit. Perhaps I should remind the honourable member that when he announced with a great flourish that in his 1975 Budget he would reduce the prospective deficit from about $5 billion to $2.5 billion he was very careful, if my memory serves me correctly, not to announce many details as to how that would be achieved. The present Liberal-National Country Party Government has announced details of significant cuts in government expenditure and our frankness goes a long way further than any action taken by the previous Labor Administration. I suggest to honourable members opposite that the full year effects of the measures taken by us are considered to be in the national interest and that will become quite clear in a fiscally responsible Budget which will be introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in August. I also remind honourable members that the Government inherited a huge deficit when it came into office. It has taken a responsible and honest approach in reducing it. Of course, the Loan Bill 1975, to which the honourable member for Oxley referred, would not have covered the prospective deficit. 
I also want to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports with regard to the National Welfare Fund balance. In 1952 an amendment to the National Welfare Fund Act provided a standing appropriation for the automatic replenishment of the NWF from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in respect of all moneys paid from the NWF. At that time Parliament made no specific provisions concerning the balance of the Fund. In effect, a clear break was made with the past and a system was introduced whereby all social security payments are in fact met from the CRF even though moneys are channelled through the NWF trust account. Since 1952 social security payments financed from the general revenue of the CRF have amounted to many thousands of millions of dollars. Given the standing appropriation provisions for automatic replenishment of all amounts paid from the National Welfare Fund for social security, the balance of the Fund, of course, has been continually replenished. In these circumstances there is no need for any working balance in the National Welfare Fund and in fact the balance serves no useful purpose. 
-We have checked it and it is perfectly correct under section 62A of the Audit Act . It is quite proper and appropriate. Finally, I thank those members of the Government and Opposition Parties who took part in the debate. The Opposition had its chance when in government. I came into the Parliament just on 3 years ago and the first Budget I looked at was for, I think, $ 10,000m. After 72 years of federation $ 10,000m was required to fund the national expenditure. Three years later $2 1,000m was required and there was to be a deficit of nearly $5,000m. Is it any wonder that the rapacious approach of the former Government to taxation diminished the national spirit and the nation's capacity for initiative and development? We have had raging inflation and of course, flowing from that, high and unacceptable unemployment. There is need for these 
Bills. No doubt, the Opposition members look forward to when the Treasurer will make a major economic statement.  His  words of wisdom no doubt will be of great assistance to them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The honourable member will appreciate that the matter of postal charges is in the hands of an independent Postal Commission; independent in the sense of day to day management. It has to conduct its affairs in a businesslike manner and in a manner compatible with making profits. Of course there is a social content which has to be taken into account. I am aware that the loss in respect of registered publications, such as the newspapers to which the honourable member referred, is about $1 1.5 in a year. As is the Government's right, it subsidised those publications to the extent of $ 1 and this has kept costs down. Costs have increased from 4.5c to 7c. Had the subsidy not been provided the cost would have been 12c. Obviously I am concerned to prevent a lowering in circulation of country newspapers. Provincial newspapers play a significant role in providing the community with information as part of the general fabric of society. I shall mention the matter to the Commission. I can give no assurances whatsoever. These are the sorts of matters that I continue to raise before the Commission. Any review will have to be handled in a Budget context. 
in reply- The Bills before the House seek approval of Parliament for the Commonwealth to undertake borrowings overseas to be on-lent to Qantas and Trans-Australia Airlines to assist in aircraft purchases. This is the fifteenth such occasion for Qantas and the twelfth such occasion for TAA in which loans have been arranged in the name of the Commonwealth. The Bills before the House are the necessary machinery measures to obtain parliamentary approval for in principle decisions that the previous Minister for Transport in the Labor Administration made. The present Government has endorsed those decisions. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  asked why Ansett Airlines of Australia is not at this stage proposing to purchase an additional aircraft. By purchasing the aircraft for delivery in November 1976 TAA will save $ 1.25m on the cost. TAA's Boeing 727-100s are now 1 1 years old. TAA intends to sell or to take out of service one or two Boeing 727- 100s this year so that excess capacity will not exist when the new aircraft is introduced into service. Ansett originally decided not to acquire a similar aircraft at the same time and on the same conditions as TAA, but I understand that there has been a recent change of heart and that Ansett is now planning to obtain its aircraft in December and is seeking a Government guarantee for any borrowings which have to be raised overseas to finance this purchase. As has been the practice in the past, the Government would be prepared to introduce appropriate legislation to authorise this guarantee. 
The honourable member for Adelaide also asked why the Commonwealth should be providing guarantees in respect of borrowings by Ansett and not providing similar facilities to other private enterprise companies. I regret that I was unable to hear the honourable member's speech entirely but I understand this is one of the matters he raised. There are many considerations in this question. For the information of honourable members some relevant considerations are: Firstly, provisions of guarantees for private sector borrowers would provide indirect subsidies to their operations. Justification for these subsidies would require very careful and comprehensive investigation. Secondly, guarantees would require specific legislation in a comprehensive form to meet the requirements of foreign lenders and to provide indemnification in the event of default. Guarantees for viable private sector borrowers on an overseas market would be provided by Australian bankers, if necessary without recourse to the Government. Thirdly, with very limited exceptions it has not been the practice of past governments to provide guarantees to Australian companies borrowing overseas. One exception is overseas borrowings by Ansett for aircraft purchases. These have been guaranteed by successive governments under the 2-airline system to ensure parity in capital equipment costs. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  made reference to delays in the audit of Qantas accounts by the Auditor-General. I am certain that the honourable member will appreciate that the Auditor-General is responsible to the Parliament and only to the Parliament. However, I shall ensure that the honourable member's comments are noted. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)-  I managed to hear most of his speech- referred to the question of offsets. I assure the honourable member that this Government, more than the Labor Administration had, has the interests of private enterprise and the creation of employment opportunities very much to the fore. I do not think it is very helpful and I do not think it is very convincing to find the honourable member for Newcastle, a Minister of the Labor Administration, giving the now Government some of his comments about the stimulation of private enterprise and employment opportunities throughout Australia. One would have thought that probably no Minister contributed more in his portfolio to diminishing the capacity of private enterprise for the creation of increasing job opportunities than did the honourable member for Newcastle. 
I shall bring to the attention of the respective Ministers other suggestions that have been made. In the case of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  no doubt he will take into consideration any matters which fall within his responsibility. These Bills are not controversial. They have allowed a valuable debate on the civil aviation industry. I thank honourable members who took pan in the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the National Debt Sinking Fund Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I therefore suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission is required to have sufficient revenues available to pay operating costs, depreciation, superannuation and long service leave provisions and interest. It is important that those revenues be sufficient because, as the honourable member will be aware, 50 per cent of the capital requirement of the Commission must be found internally. If it is not found internally there are problems under the Act. The balance must be found from borrowings from the Treasury which attract interest at the bond rate. It has been mentioned that there could be substantial profit by Telecom. Perhaps a better choice of words would have been a surplus of income over expenditure. 'Profit' in this context should not be used in the same way as we would use 'profit' in another context. There is $153m expected to be made this year. That represents 4 per cent on the capital investment of over $4,000m. So we are talking about a 4 per cent return on investment. If the surplus is less the alternative is to say that we will not spend as much money, we will not have as much capital requirement. That would mean lesser services which I do not think would be acceptable to any of us. The other alternative is to increase borrowings, which means increased interest, which must in the end mean increased charges. The only thing left to consider is some subsidy from the Consolidated Revenue Fund which, of course, brings it into a budgetary situation. All I can say in answer to the honourable member is that I am aware there is a social content. I am aware there are enormous costs involved, and I am aware of the burden that they place on country subscribers. I shall certainly take up with the Commission the matters the honourable member has raised. 
The Government is presently giving consideration to its policy decisions. This will be a matter which will go to the Cabinet, I hope, in the next few days. A decision will be reached and then it will be announced. 
-I am aware of the increase in the charge. I am also aware that any increase in the charges of the Australian Postal Commission or the Australian Telecommunications Commission has an impact, and sometimes a very unfortunate impact, upon the community or sections of it. I have said time and time again that these commissions are largely independent. We do not interfere with their day to day management. We have an overall responsibility with regard to the basic tariffs. I will discuss with the Commission concerned the matters raised by the honourable member. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Government employees, which I announced on 12 February 1976 would come into operation on 1 July 1 976. It is accompanied by the Superannuation Amendment Bill 1976 and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Amendment Bill 1 976, which I will introduce shortly. 
Background 
There is a long history to the development of the new scheme. In October 1971, when a Liberal-Country Party Government was in power, the Treasury established a departmental committee to undertake a full investigation of the 

<graphic href="098131197603180_34_3.jpg"></graphic>

existing superannuation arrangements. The committee's report, which was tabled in the House of Representatives on 8 May 1973, canvassed in considerable detail the problems being experienced with the existing arrangements and, after examining various possibilities, recommended the introduction of a new scheme. 
In May last year the Superannuation Bill 1 975 was introduced providing for a new scheme on the lines of, but somewhat more generous than, the scheme recommended by the Treasury committee. We, then in Opposition, recognised the urgent need for a new superannuation scheme but considered that the scheme provided by the 1975 Bill was plainly over-generous in the existing economic conditions. Our criticism was directed to three main areas. Firstly, we considered that the retiring age for a full governmentfinanced pension of 50 per cent of final salary pension after 30 years contributory service should be 65 and that retirement before that age should attract some reduction in pension. Secondly, we regarded as excessive the additional 0.5 per cent of salary government-financed pension for each year of contributory service before age 60 over 30 years but not exceeding 40 years. Thirdly, we considered that in the new scheme, in which members would be able to choose between additional pension purchased by their accumulated contributions or their accumulated contributions in a lump sum, there was no justification for updating annually that additional pension in accordance with consumer price index increases. 
Subsequently, the Bill was amended in the Senate but the amendments were not accepted by the House of Representatives and the Bill was laid aside on 19 August 1975. On 30 October 1975, following representations by a number of contributors and some Public Service unions, my colleague, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  on behalf of the then Opposition announced a compromise solution involving three major changes in the Superannuation Bill 1975. This compromise solution provided the basis of the election commitment subsequently given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Council of Australian Government 
Employee Organisations and the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association. The changes to the scheme that I announced on 12 and 25 February last have been developed from that compromise solution and are incorporated in the new superannuation arrangements provided for in the legislation now being introduced. 
The Changes in the Scheme 
I do not propose to spell out in detail the changes that the Government has made to the scheme as put forward by the previous Government last year. Some changes, such as those providing that only the government-financed element of new pensions will be updated, making the full age retirement pension payable only on retirement at or after age 65, and reducing the additional pension for long contributory service from 0.5 per cent to 0.25 per cent of salary for each year of such service beyond 30 years up to 40 years, have significantly reduced the cost of the new scheme. Special attention has been given to the position of women in the scheme. 
Some aspects of the scheme have been simplified and worthwhile administrative savings will be achieved as a result. A case in point is limiting to one, the options that were previously to be available in respect of the additional pension financed by members' contributions. Other changes will achieve a more consistent and better balanced scheme. 
The Provisions of the Bill 
The construction of the Bill and the two accompanying Bills, and their main provisions, are explained in some detail in the explanatory memorandum that has been circulated to honourable members. The memorandum also includes brief explanations and comparisons of the present superannuation arrangements and the new scheme, and information on costs. 
The New Scheme- Contributions 
The contribution arrangements for the new scheme have not been changed from those provided in the 1975 Bill. A new contributor and contributors transferred from the present Provident Account will be required to make a basic contribution of 5 per cent of salary and will have the option of contributing up to a further 5 per cent in supplementary contributions on a voluntary basis. Special arrangements will operate for contributors transferred from the present pension scheme. Those whose present contributions amount to more than 5 per cent of salary will have the option of paying, in addition to their basic contributions of 5 per cent, supplementary contributions not exceeding their present contributions expressed as a percentage of salary. 
For younger contributors whose present contributions amount to less than 4 per cent of their salary in contributions, the move to the 5 per cent basic contribution rate will be in stages. The change in the contribution basis will mean an immediate increase in the contributions presently being paid by more than half the contributors to the existing pension scheme. 
Benefits 
For new contributors the scheme will provide a government-financed pension of 50 per cent of final salary on retirement at age 65 after 30 years of contributory service. Each year of contributory service beyond 30 will attract an additional pension of 0.25 per cent subject to a maximum pension of 52.5 per cent of final salary on retirement at age 65 after 40 or more years of contributory service. Contributory service of less than 30 years will attract a lower pension. For retirement after age 60 and before 65 the pension will be reduced by 2 per cent of the pension for each year or part year that retirement occurs before that age. This will provide a government-financed pension on retirement at age 60 of 45 per cent of final salary after 30 years contributory service and 47.25 per cent after 40 years contributory service. 
Contributors to the present pension scheme and the Provident Account will not be required to complete 30 years contributory service to qualify for the 50 per cent government-financed pension on retirement at age 65. Pension scheme contributors will continue to be subject to the more beneficial service provisions of their present scheme, that is, 20 years contributory service for entrants on or after 14 December 1959 and no qualifying period for entrants before that date. The qualifying period for the 50 per cent pension at age 65 for Provident Account contributors will be 20 years. 
If the age 60 units held by a present pension scheme contributor would have provided a better Government financed pension than will be available under the new scheme on retirement before age 65, a pension supplement in respect of those units will be added to the Government financed pension payable at retirement. Provident Account contributors will be able to elect, on retirement, to receive, in lieu of the new scheme benefits, the lump sum benefit that would have been payable had the Provident Account arrangements continued to apply. 
At retirement a member will also be entitled to additional pension not exceeding 20 per cent of final salary, based on the member's accumulated basic and supplementary contributions. If the accumulated contributions are more than sufficient to provide a 20 per cent additional pension the excess accumulated contributions will be paid to the member. The additional pension will carry with it reversionary pension entitlement for a spouse. The member will have a once only option, exercisable within 3 months of retirement, to convert the whole of the additional pension and reversionary entitlement into the equivalent lump sum. 
Like the present pension scheme, the new scheme will provide comprehensive cover against the invalidity retirement or death of a contributor before age 65. The benefit will be determined on the basis of prospective contributory service to age 65 and will be in the form of a Government financed pension together with additional pension that can be exchanged for the member's accumulated basic contributions if the member or the beneficiary so desires. Provision is made for a partial invalidity pension to be paid when an invalidity pensioner is re-employed on a lower salary or when a contributor's status and salary are reduced on medical grounds. 
Spouses' benefits will be available to a wider range of persons including, under certain conditions, de facto spouses and the spouse of a marriage after retirement. The standard benefit for a spouse will be 67 per cent of the member's pension and the pension will not cease on remarriage. Children's and orphans' pensions will also be related to the level of the member's pension. 
Persons of lower medical standard on entry who, under the present arrangements, would be required to join the Provident Account, will come under the new scheme as will those members at present contributing to the Provident Account. There may be some reduction in thennew scheme benefits on medical grounds if they retire on invalidity or die before completing 20 years of contributory service. 
The scheme has been designed to provide appropriate benefits if a contributor's conditions of service, either now or in the future, permit early retirement before age 60. Such early retirement pension is the age 60 retirement pension according to actual contributory service reduced by 4 per cent of that pension for each year or part year that retirement occurs before age 60. Provision has also been made so that, as and when appropriate, membership of the scheme can be extended to part time employees. 
Preservation of Superannuation Rights 
In the new scheme the qualifying period for preservation of benefits will be 5 years instead of the 20 years qualifying period provided in the present legislation. This significant reduction in the qualifying period will be of particular assistance to women who interrupt their careers for reasons such as child rearing. 
Updating of Pensions 
The Government financed element of pensions that become payable under the new scheme will be adjusted in July each year by the formula one times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index in the preceding 12 months, March quarter to March quarter. Existing pensions that will continue to be paid under the present Superannuation Act will be adjusted by the same formula applied to the full pension. 
Administration 
Administration of the new scheme, other than investment and management of the Superannuation Fund, will be the responsibility of a Commissioner for Superannuation to be appointed by the Governor-General. Investment and management of the fund will be the responsibility of an Investment Trust whose members will be appointed by the Governor-General. The Trust will be comprised of a full time chairman and 2 part time members, with appropriate experience in the investment or management of moneys. One of the part time members will be a contributor or pensioner selected after consultation with contributor and pensioner organisations. The investment powers relating to the fund are wide and include investments such as shares and real property. 
Provision is made for the reconsideration of decisions by the Commissioner for Superannuation where sought by a person affected by a decision and for application by the person to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of a decision confirmed or varied by the Commissioner. For this purpose one of the nonpresidential members of the Tribunal is to be a contributor or a pensioner. 
Introduction of The New Scheme 
Introduction of the new scheme will require a division of the assets of the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1976 between pensioners and contributors. This is covered in general terms only in the Bill and will be dealt with in more detail in regulations. 
The complex nature of the present superannuation arrangements has caused many administrative problems and in February, when contributions to the pension scheme and Provident Account were frozen pending the introduction of the new scheme, the work of the Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office was very much in arrears. These arrears are now being overtaken but it will be some time before the division and allocation of. the fund as at 30 June 1976 can be completed. Suitable provision will be made in the regulations for interim arrangements that will apply to persons retiring during the period of transition. 
Costs 
Turning now to costs, on the basis of contributor and pensioner data as at 30 June 1974 and using the assumptions adopted by  Mr G.  L. Melville and Professor A. H. Pollard in their 1974 report, a comparison of capital values of benefits under the present pension scheme and Provident Account with capital values of benefits under the new scheme shows an overall increase of 1 per cent. The comparison illustrates the marked improvement under the new scheme in the position of those existing contributors who, for medical reasons, have been required to be members of the Provident Account. On the other hand, there is some decline in the capital values for existing pensioners and existing pension scheme contributors. This decline reflects the long term effect of the change in the updating formulae. 
It is estimated that, if the Government were to fund its liability by making contributions at the same time as employees, the Government contribution for new contributors entering the new scheme after 1 July 1976 would be 18.8 per cent of the salaries of these contributors. The corresponding figure for the present pension scheme and Provident Account combined is 19.3 per cent. Net expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1976-77 on account of the new scheme is expected to be about $3m less than if the present pension scheme and Provident Account were to continue. 
The comparison of capital values and other costing information are contained in the explanatory memorandum that has been circulated to honourable members. 
Other  Bills 
The Superannuation Amendment Bill 1976, another Bill, amends the Superannuation Act 1922-1974, which will be kept in force in part to provide continuing authority for the payment of existing pensions. It extends to spouses' and children's pensions that are payable or may become payable in the future under that Act, the higher reversionary benefit percentages provided in the new scheme and applies also the wider eligibility provisions of that scheme. 
Provision is also made for the freezing of contributions to the present schemes as at 4 February 1976 and the suspension of certain options in the present legislation from 13 February 1976, pending introduction of the new scheme. These measures were announced by the Government in February this year. 
The Superannuation Amendment Bill also provides special superannuation arrangements for persons who transferred from State and private employment as a result of the Commonwealth Government's assuming additional responsibilities. 
The Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Amendment Bill 1976 makes a number of essential machinery amendments to the principal Act to take account of changes being effected by the Superannuation Bill and to ensure that arrangements already in existence continue in force. They .deal with persons whose contributions to the superannuation scheme have been deferred on their becoming eligible members of the DFRDB scheme, the preservation of rights provisions as they relate to persons transferring from one scheme to the other and, in accordance with past practice, the ex-officio appointment of the Commissioner for Superannuation, in lieu of the  President  of the Superannuation Board, as  chairman  of the DFRDB Authority and the DFRB Board. 
The opportunity has been taken also to include in the Bill some formal and miscellaneous amendments, including provision to allow applications to be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for the review of decisionsmade by the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority. 
In conclusion the introduction of this Bill and the accompanying measures honours a commitment made by the Government to its employees late last year. The Australian Government Employees Combined Superannuation Coordinating Committee, which is representative of both contributors and pensioners, has asked the Government to proceed with the scheme. It has been no easy task to mould the new scheme into the form in which it is now presented. In this connection I pay tribute to the tremendous contribution that my predecessor, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  made to the development of the final scheme. Superannuation is a complex issue. My colleague was untiring in his efforts in getting to understand the present scheme and its problems and in seeking to find a solution that might reasonably satisfy the aspirations of the Government's own employees while still giving proper weight to the interests of the nation as a whole. 
The covering legislation is extensive and complex and has been produced under considerable pressure. Should any shortcomings emerge as the new scheme gets into operation, the Government will, if it is appropriate, take action to remedy them. The new scheme will apply immediately to around 240 000 existing contributors, and perhaps another 60 000 Commonwealth Government employees, not at present in a superannuation scheme, will be eligible to join. There are, however, around 20 other superannuation schemes applying to civilian employees within the Commonwealth Government sector. In the interests of mobility, even-handed treatment of employees and greater efficiency in the area of superannuation, the Government intends in due course to move in the direction of bringing in to the new scheme, civilian employees at present covered by other Government schemes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As foreshadowed in my second second reading speech on the Superannuation Bill 1976, I now introduce the Superannuation Amendment Bill 1976 that makes certain necessary changes to the Superannuation Act 1 922-1 974 consequent upon the introduction of the new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Government employees, and some other changes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As foreshadowed in my second reading speech on the Superannuation Bill 1976, I now introduce the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Amendment Bill 1976 that makes certain necessary changes to the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973-1975 consequent upon the introduction of the new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Government employees, and some other changes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
In the 3 years that I have been in this House I have heard the former Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  make a number of speeches. I have never heard one so lacking in justification as the one he has made this afternoon. We all know that he is going through a difficult period in his career. We all know that the nation has placed a question mark over his credibility and the credibility of his Party. I do not think the Leader of the Opposition can afford the luxury of the extravagant charges that he has made this afternoon. The Leader of the Opposition talks about vendettas. Of course, he has a lot of figments of imagination about vendettas against him and his Party. I am surprised that he would allow himself to be drawn into a debate on this subject. What evidence does the Leader of the Opposition have that the Government is threatening the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? The only 'evidence' that can be found is that of continuing and growing Press speculation over the past few weeks. In view of the Leader of the Opposition's attitude and, indeed, comments about the proprietors of some of the leading Australian newspapers I find it difficult to understand how he of all people now accepts their word as credible evidence of Government intention. 
It should be clear to members of this House and the Australian public that the fears expressed regarding possible threats to the autonomous nature of the operations of the ABC are without foundation. The Liberal Party platform sets out quite clearly that freedom of expression in the Press, radio and television and freedom from governmental and political interference are fundamental to Liberal beliefs and essential to democratic government. It is further stated that the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be independent of political control. The National Country Party media policy is similar to that statement. Honourable members will be aware of the Prime Minister's statement reported in this morning's  Australian  in which he says: 
I would say that whatever changes could be made, if any are made, to the organisation and structure of the ABC insofar as I am concerned, the absolute independence of the ABC in reporting particularly political events will remain. 
I believe that these statements demonstrate quite clearly that the Commission will not be prejudiced in its freedom of expression which it currently enjoys or the active role it now plays in the Australian community. 
There has also been comment by the Leader of the Opposition on the budgetary cuts applied recently to the ABC. The Australian Broadcasting Commission sought an increase of $7.3m over its approved allocation for this financial year. After consideration of our need to reduce public expenditure- that was an announced policy and a known government policy- it was decided that the ABC would receive a cut of $ 1.1m on its approved budget and that its request for additional funds would not be granted. These are the figures which apply, based upon a budget of $130m, when the Leader of the Opposition uses words such as 'crippling'. It is not a question of being crippling; it is a question of being responsible and operating within the policy of this Government. In a period when the Government is endeavouring to rectify the mistakes of the previous Labor administration and to place our economy on a sounder basis, I believe it is reasonable that the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be placed in the same position as other government activities, many of which have been curtailed. However, I point out to honourable members that in making this cut the implementation of the financial programs and the way that the Commission would meet its new financial goals were left entirely to the discretion of the ABC itself and there was no Government interference in that area. 
As the responsible Minister, I have given no indication at all that there is any desire on the Government's part to threaten the independence of the ABC. Indeed, as evidence of our attitude to protect its independence, I cite the specific example of recent industrial disputes which the Commission has been undergoing. On these occasions I have been approached by various staff and trade union associations in an effort to embroil me in what I have regarded as purely internal ABC management decisions. The Government has repeatedly stated that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is an independent statutory corporation vested with the power of making its own managerial decisions. 
As the Leader of the Opposition said, there has also been conjecture on the use of advertising on the ABC as a means of obtaining revenue to reduce the cost of the Commission on the public purse. This issue is a most complex one. Certainly at present the Broadcasting and Television Act specifically prohibits the Australian Broadcasting Commission from advertising. Is it not natural for views concerning the funding of the ABC to be expressed? After all, we are talking about a national expenditure of about $ 130m. If we add to that the cost of ancillary services we are talking of an all-up expenditure of $170m. It is not an inconsiderable sum. I have received letters recently advocating the use of advertising as a means of obtaining revenue and letters deploring the possibility of such an action. We would not contemplate the use of advertising if it would threaten in any way the ability of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to act independently in presenting its wide coverage of subjects which are currently handled. 
The Liberal-National Country Party Government has committed itself to further the potential of ethnic broadcasting, both as a means of language instruction and cultural dissemination. It will encourage ethnic involvement in the running and programming of these stations. Care will be taken to ensure a balanced and representative utilisation of the medium. Our policies in this area of broadcasting are aimed at improving the information services to migrants as well as ensuring an equitable use of the radio frequency spectrum. Senior officers of 5 Commonwealth departments with a direct interest in ethnic broadcasting are currently considering the various options available to the Government in planning a long term structure for this important form of broadcasting in Australia. Their report will be completed this week, and it is anticipated that the recommendations of the Ministers concerned will be considered by the Government before the end of this month. Until that discussion and consideration have taken place there can be only speculation as to the Government's policy. I said that to the Leader of the Opposition in answer to a question last week. It is pure speculation. The Government is considering the matter. It will be discussed. A decision will be reached, bearing in mind our commitment to ethnic radio, and an announcement will be made. 
It has been many years since there has been a complete look at the broadcasting and television industry. In that time we have seen the introduction of colour television and the growing pressure for public broadcasting. I propose to recommend to the Government that it institute an inquiry into the industry. The inquiry will seek the views of interested bodies and authorities. I note in a recent statement the Acting  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Dr Earle  Hackett, supports such an investigation. I put to honourable members: What is the harm in having a look at a growingly significant industry? It has been some years since we had a look. The former Prime Minister talked about his administration extending and enriching radio during its term. In the 6 weeks or so that I have had this responsibility, all I can say is that there has been substantial mismanagement, as there has been in a number of other departments. The mismanagement, the looseness, the quite irresponsible attitude and the spending of taxpayers' funds in this area add extra weight to the need for a thoroughly on-going inquiry. Such an inquiry will be beneficial not only to the industry generally but also to the Government, the Parliament and the nation as a whole. We will not be hurried into decisions simply because of some imagination, some speculation of the Press and irresponsible matters of public importance initiated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I say in clear terms that the Government's attitude on the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is quite clear. The ABC must be independent of political control or interference. We believe it is essential that the Commission maintain high technical standards, objectivity and integrity in the presentation of its services. We recognise the valuable work performed by the Commission, particularly in providing services to remote areas and to minority groups. In government we will continue to ensure that the ABC is equipped to service these needs. We will complement those needs with other essential local services such as public broadcasting, so that the ABC can continue as an independent authority serving the Australian nation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3) All telephones in use in Australia are fitted with induction coils which are an essential part of the telephone circuit. The capability of inductively coupling a hearing aid with earlier type telephones was secondary to the main function of the induction coil and was not designed into the circuit. The induction coil in the new telephones is a more efficient unit so far as normal transmission and reception is concerned but there has been some lowering in the strength of its inductive field. Most modern hearing aids will operate on the field around the receiver section of the old type handsets but not on the new telephones in their basic form. However this can be overcome by adding a specially designed hearing aid coupler and these are available on request for an annual rental of 30 cents. 
No. The principles are the same for public telephones as for the ordinary telephone. However, an equivalent to the hearing aid coupler will become standard in future public telephone purchases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Continuation of the Travelling Post Office (TPO) service is dependent upon whether the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales withdraws the railway faculties on which the service relies. In May 1975, the New South Wales Minister for Transport advised that the Public Transport Commission was faced with financial difficulties and that action would have to be taken to bring its finances within more manageable limits. He stressed also, that the TPO service could not be considered in isolation and that the proposed cessation of the service was only part of a complex, integrated series of adjustments which that Commission was forced to contemplate. However, in September 1975, the Public Transport Commission agreed to continue the TPO service on each of the four routes until the introduction of each new rail schedule. This was subject to the condition of the TPO vans not deteriorating to a stage where major repairs would be necessary to retain them in service. 
Just over 100 representations have been made to me and my predecessors from persons and organisations in country areas of New South Wales seeking retention of the service. 
A number of meetings has been held with the New South Wales Ministry of Transport and the Public Transport Commission. At these meetings and through correspondence, the importance of the TPO service to country residents has been emphasised. It has also been made clear that Australia Post wants this facility to continue and would take no initiative toward discontinuing the TPO service. ' 
Notwithstanding this attitude and representations from country residents and organisations, the Public Transport Commission indicated that it did not wish to continue the TPO service and asked that alternative mail sorting and distribution arrangements be developed. This has been done and, apart from the continued use of rail to serve the larger centres, the alternative mail distribution arrangements required can be met by extending or deviating existing road mail services and, in some cases, by introducing additional services. Such alternative arrangements would provide a satisfactory service to each locality. 
-I must confess that I never listen to  Blue Hills.  Honourable members will appreciate that we would not wish to interfere with any internal management decision of the Australian Broadcasting Commission such as that referred to by the honourable member. The only time that we would express any real concern would be if parliamentary broadcasts were diminished in any way. I imagine that that would reduce the entertainment for the Australian nation much more than would any reduction in Blue Hills. 
-Senator Withers is a very valuable and capable colleague. He speaks with a bluntness which can be refreshing on occasions. 

 Mr E. G. WhitlamWould  Hansard  record the pause before the words 'on occasions '? 
-The radio and television industry has had 3 years notice of the intention to implement the phasing out of this portion of its revenue. My understanding is that most of the companies involved have so organised their revenue and their accounts as to make allowance for the phasing out in the expectation that it would be finalised this September. I am aware that in some country areas, particularly the outer country areas, there is a problem with profitability. The Government has no plans at all to replace the revenue, just as it would not have any plans to replace revenue when other businesses have to readjust to Government decisions. 
-I am not aware of all the conditions in regard to transfers between the 2 Commissions. My understanding is that an employee can transfer from one Commission to another without resigning. As to the second part of the question, I have looked at the correspondence to which the honourable member previously referred. It involves a person who wanted to transfer from a higher paid position to a lower paid position which required an examination. I must admit that it seems to be an anomaly that a person who wishes to transfer from a higher paid position has to undergo an examination before he can occupy a lower paid position. I looked at the file. I want the honourable member to know that the interest he has taken and I have taken in this has created a real interest in both the Commissions. The matter is now the subject of the closest scrutiny. I would think that some of the conditions might well be amended. I will do all that I can to ensure that this matter is examined fully in the very near future. 
The honourable member informed me of his intention to ask this question. Of course this whole matter of superannuation is very complex, and the reason we introduced this new scheme is to make the matter less complicated. When I hear comments such as those referred to by the honourable member for Canberra I think it is questionable whether the persons who make these comments have considered all the aspects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See(l). 
The delivery of mail is only one of a rural community's needs and, although important, the quantity of mail involved is generally small. For this reason, it is rarely practicable to provide a transport service purely for mail conveyance and mail contracts, therefore, are generally let to transport operators catering for the carriage of passengers or goods in the area concerned. It follows that the frequency of a mail service is very much dependent on the need for the transport service as a whole and this is mainly a matter for the operator and the community he services. 
In addition, the level of the tenders received by Australia Post for carriage of mail depends to a large extent on the volume of other business which can be combined with the mail run. Therefore, in cases where the volume of other business is low, the cost to Australia Post can be quite disproportionate to the amount of mail conveyed. In such circumstances. Australia Post often has no alternative but to reduce the frequency of the service or, in extreme cases, curtail the service pending receipt of a suitable offer. 
The policy observed by Australia Post for the provision of mail services has been developed having regard to the special needs for postal services of Australian people who reside or carry on business outside the dues. However, in implementing the policy, some account has to be taken of the cost of individual services since the postal service must ' break even ' overall. 
Australia Post is very much aware of the importance of mail delivery services in country areas and will continue to endeavour to provide and maintain the highest practicable standard of mail service in all such areas. 
-I am glad that the honourable member for Forrest gave 2 choices of words, either a profit or a surplus. I think the word 'surplus' is much more acceptable in terms of the financing of the Telecommunications Commission. I understand that the surplus this year is to be about $ 160m. Let us accept, firstly, that that roughly is 4 per cent on the investment of over $4,000m. The House would be aware that the Telecommunications Commission will need $850m for capital expenditure next year. Half of that amount has to be found internally and $160m is less than 20 per cent- I think it is about 18 per cent- of the requirement. The rest of the money has to be found by way of depreciation allowances, superannuation and long service funds and so on. The borrowings from the Treasury for the balance do not have to be repaid and interest is charged at the long term bond rate. If we have outside borrowings obviously the loans will have to be repaid and the interest rate will be higher. Therefore with higher interest rates there would obviously be higher charges. The notion that present users should not have to pay for privileges and facilities that people into the future will use is not a novel one. But after all, if we are going to talk about telecommunications we ought to talk about roads, bridges and schools. In the field of telecommunications I think the argument is less than acceptable because technology will require such updating that there will be a greater change and updating of facilities than there will be in all the other areas. 
I am sorry that I was unable to be in the chamber for the entire debate. I want to respond specifically to some of the points raised during the debate. Before doing so, I commend the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  for his contribution. It was considered and very worth while. The controversial points raised by him were, I think, effectively answered in a lucid speech by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who, honourable members will recall, was responsible for the development of the 3 major compromise proposals on which these Bills are based. The honourable member for Gellibrand had incorporated in  Hansard  2 tables comparing benefits under the new Commonwealth scheme and the schemes of the various States. In 2 important respects the tables were wrong. In Queensland the pension is based on the average salary received over the final 3 years of service. At present the maximum pension at age 65 is likely to be closer to 65 per cent or less of the final salary than to the 75 per cent shown in the tables. In Tasmania the pension is based on the average of salary received over the last year of service, not the salary at retirement. 
I respond also to the examples that the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  gave in his speech. They purported to show that some persons would be much worse off under the new scheme than they are under the present scheme. 
The first 2 examples that he gave are fairly typical of some of the uninformed comments that some persons seem to be circulating for their own purposes. I am not suggesting that the honourable member for Fraser is in that category. I suggest that he has been misled by correspondence which he has received and from which he has drawn his examples. It is a gross distortion to compare the total pension with no right to a lump sum, as is available under the present scheme, with only the government-financed pension under the new scheme without taking into account the additional pension or the substantial lump sum also available. This was the approach adopted when the honourable member quoted examples which showed, incorrectly, that 2 lower level officers would be much worse off under the new scheme. Perhaps it is of some significance that the same distorting approach was not adopted in the senior officer level example that was quoted later in the speech by the honourable member for Fraser. 
The Government, of course, does not accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. The scheme embodied in the legislation reasonably satisfies the aspirations of the Government's employees, while still giving proper weight to the interests of the nation as a whole. That latter point was tremendously important in our consideration. The new scheme is supported and welcomed by the generality of the Public Service and by the Australian Government Employees Combined Superannuation Coordinating Committee. This Committee has asked us to proceed with all urgency to introduce the new scheme on 1 July. 
The scheme is well balanced and has features that are an improvement on the scheme that was put forward by the Australian Labor Party Administration. Let me quickly list some of them. Prospective service for the purpose of calculating benefits on invalidity retirement or death will be counted to age 65 instead of age 60. The special invalidity retirement and death benefits will be available when invalidity retirement or death occurs between the ages of 60 and 65. Spouses' pensions will not cease on remarriage. I will have a little more to say later about the contribution of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  The qualifying period for preservation of benefits when a member resigns to move outside the public sector or to leave the work force will be 5 years instead of 10 years. I think this answers one of the questions asked by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short).  It will be possible under under this scheme, unlike the Labor scheme, to extend superannuation to part-time employees. The honourable member for Ballaarat mentioned this problem. It will be decided and considered in conjunction with other aspects of part-time employment. 
I particularly commend the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  for his contribution and for the efforts he has made to ensure a proper understanding of the scheme by his constituents. I know that the honourable member for Canberra has spent an enormous amount of time getting to understand and know what the scheme is all about. I think many more members of this chamber would have been better informed if they had followed his example. We then would have had fewer loose comments concerning it. 
The subject of war service was raised by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  and, just a few minutes ago, by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  It is true that if the person concerned was in the superannuation scheme before he entered the forces his superannuation contributions would have been maintained while he was away and that if he has remained in the scheme since his return the period of war service would be contributory service for the purpose of the new scheme. A period of war service is, however, not counted as contributory service if there are not contributions in the superannuation fund in respect of that period. This is consistent with the contributory nature of the scheme and the principle adopted in relation to many other kinds of service in respect of which contributions are not held in the Superannuation Fund. The matter raised by, I think, the honourable member for Macarthur regarding transfer between the defence force retirement benefits scheme and the superannuation scheme will be looked into. 
As to the comments of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  I think it would be worth while if I were to state quite clearly the position with regard to spouses' pensions after remarriage. As I said earlier, under the new scheme spouses' pensions will not cease on remarriage. Most private sector schemes provide benefits in the form of a lump sum payment and under these schemes a widow usually gets a lump sum payment on the death of a scheme member. In the event of the widow marrying another member of the same scheme and of that member predeceasing her there is no prohibition on the widow receiving a second lump sum payment from the same scheme. In many situations the prospect of the loss of the principal income of the spouse might dissuade that spouse from remarrying and encourage the formation of domestic arrangements outside marriage. Although a rule could be made that the formation of  de facto  relationships should also result in the loss of a spouse's pension such a rule would be difficult to administer and costly to police. 
On the basis of recent experience it is expected that in 1976-77 some 50 widows' pensions will be continued that would otherwise have been cancelled on remarriage. It is estimated that the total annual value of these pensions will be about $0.2m. It is possible that a particular spouse might receive superannuation benefits on account of more than one deceased partner. However, the expected frequency of this happening is small. I do not think that there are many members of the community who have quite the amount of energy and initiative that the honourable member for Griffith has perhaps suggested. Any attempt to limit the generality of this provision by limiting the number of spouses' pensions payable by, say, the Commonwealth Government's schemes to a particular spouse introduces a number of problems. One is the possibility that it would discriminate against a spouse-pensioner choosing to marry a member of one of those schemes compared with a spousepensioner who married a member of, say, a nonCommonwealth Government or private scheme. 
Finally, I would like to thank those honourable members who made contributions to the debate. Superannuation, as we all know, is a very difficult, complex subject. The debate has been a valuable one. Honourable members have been well informed. I thank honourable members for the points they have raised. They will, of course, receive my attention. I hope that the debate assists in a better understanding of what the scheme is all about. In my view the scheme is good, just, generous and, more importantly for the Labor Opposition, much better than the 2 schemes that it will replace. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Willis' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-The honourable member is of course aware, as is every other honourable member in this House, that the 2 commissions were formed by the previous Labor Administration and that they have to conduct their affairs in a businesslike manner. I will not take up the time of the House today in repeating what I have said before about the amount of capital involved in the commissions and the enormous amount of investment which has to come from within the commissions and from borrowings from the Government. Having said that, I repeat that I accept and everybody else accepts that the commissions have a social obligation to the Australian electorate generally. I certainly accept that within rural areas there is a tremendous number of problems that are the cause of the enormous communication costs in this large country. Of course I will impress upon the commissions their right role. I believe that they understand and accept it. Of course, any considerations of a tariff nature, as the honourable member well knows, will be given in a Budget context. 
The story of the courier service is not a very satisfying or happy one. First of all, it was decided by the former Postmaster-General,  Senator Bishop,  in late 1 974 to purchase 1 30 Leyland mini vans at a cost of about $2 14,000. Then there was a tremendous amount of administrative delay, and the service did not get moving until February 1976. This is another indication of about 18 months of bungling of administration of the previous Labor Government. 
The facts speak for themselves. The vans were purchased in late 1974 but the service did not come into operation until early 1976. This is another example of administrative looseness which of course was so evident in many areas. Turning to the question of competition, the Government believes in competition. Our policy states quite clearly that we will encourage private enterprise into this area. I inform the honourable member that the Commission's courier service has not achieved much of the market. In fact, it has achieved about 15 per cent of the market. It really has not detracted much from the share of the market held by private operators. I am really concerned that it is an area of unprofitability as far as the Commission is concerned. 
-I am aware of the problems that have occurred. The Australian 
Telecommunications Commission has been keeping this matter under close watch. Immediately after question time I will seek again the latest information. I have not had any advice from the Commission in the last day or two. I accept the significance of the question, and I will make certain that the Leader of the Opposition is fully informed. 
-I am aware that there is a need to improve the television coverage in many parts of Australia, and particularly in some of the rural areas. This matter is constantly under review by me and by the Department. This is one of the reasons why I am encouraged to submit to the Government that there ought to be an inquiry. I believe that this will aid the development of planning of the whole broadcasting system. I accept that within the constraints of expenditure we should do all we can to facilitate the availability of television and broadcasting throughout the entire continent. As far as the particular areas mentioned by the honourable member, I shall look into those specifically and reply to him in detail about them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia expects to provide STD facilities for Broken Hill subscribers about April or May next year. Provision of the facilities is dependent on the installation of necessary additional equipment at the Broken Hill exchange, programmed for completion in January 1977, and completion of the Port Augusta-Broken Hill section of the Ceduna-Cobar co-axial trunk cable and associated system. 
Broken Hill is the only existing automatic exchange in the area and at this stage there are no firm plans to extend automatic working and STD to other subscribers in the district. 
No. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The terms and conditions of employment for Motor Drivers in Telecom Australia are the same as those prescribed for Motor Drivers under the Public Service Act. Terms and conditions are also prescribed in Determinations by the Public Service Arbitrator No. 30 of 1926 and No. 32 of 1956, as varied from time to time. The application of these benefits to Telecom Australia staff was formalised by a Determination of the Commission under Section 43 of the Telecommunications Act 1975. 
Yes, however special allowances are prescribed in Determination No. 30 of 1926 for drivers of heavy and articulated vehicles. 
The opportunity for permanent appoint is available to all staff. Employees may contest open examinations conducted by Telecom Australia for appointment and transfer as Motor Drivers. Examinations of this nature are notified in the Australian Government  Gazette  and are usually prominently displayed on notice boards at appropriate locations. 
Yes- see 3 above. 
The lines of promotion for Motor Driver are: 
Motor Driver 
Assistant Transport Overseer Transport Assistant Transport Overseer Transport Officer, Grade 1 Transport Officer, Grade 2 
(a) Light vehicles 15 445 
Heavy vehicles 1954 
Earth moving equipment (trench excavators, graders, wheeled and crawler tractors) 1 1 70 
Other major construction machines 1400 
Heavy vehicles and earth moving equipment are controlled in each State by local administrations. Policy and principles are established for the whole of Australia at Telecom Headquarters. 
Yes generally, having regard to the nature of the operations. 
Telecom Australia advises that there is some dissatisfaction amongst heavy vehicle drivers and a good deal of attention is being given to this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No official post office has been closed since 1 1 November 1975 but 64 small non-official post offices have been closed in this time. Of these, 19 were in New South Wales, 17 in Victoria, 14 in Queensland, 6 in South Australia, 7 in Western Australia and I in Tasmania. 
Over the years, postal operations have been reviewed continually in an endeavour to determine alternative ways of providing adequate postal services more economically, without detracting from the existing standards of service. The small non-official post offices which have been closed were offices which were used very little by local residents and served mainly as mail distribution points. In each case, alternative mail delivery arrangements were made, generally at a lower cost and providing a better service to residents. 
In the honourable member's electorate, the Menai nonofficial post office is the only office which has been closed since 1 1 November 1975. This office was closed temporarily on 12 March following the resignation of the Postmistress. Efforts have since been made to employ a suitable person to reopen the office but unfortunately these have been unavailing. There is no intention of closing this post office permanently and it will be reopened as soon as the services of a suitable person can be obtained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia has advised that less revenue has been received because advertisers in either Sydney or Melbourne purchasing the same advertisement in one, two or three of the regional buying guides were charged at the following reduced rates: 
In one regional book only- 40 per cent less than for four books 
In two regional books- 25 per cent less than for four books 
In three regional books- 10 per cent less than for four books 
Advertisers purchasing the same advertisement in each of the four regional buying guide directories were charged the same amount as would have been payable if a single classified directory had been published. 
Yes. 
No extra production costs are involved because relatively few subscribers require all of the directories in question. The publication of the 1975-76 Commercial/Industrial book and the four regional Buying Guides in Sydney and Melbourne resulted in a saving of approximately $980,000 (based on 1975 prices) as a result of having to print only a total of 2618 million pages compared with about 4000 million which would have been required for a single Classified Directory. 
A copy of the Commercial/Industrial book or any regional Buying Guide not initially supplied is available to any metropolitan subscriber, free of charge, on request to his local Telecom Business Office or from the larger Post Offices. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There has been an increase in revenue in line with the Australian Postal Commission's expectations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia advises that the public telegraph service has been operating at a loss of the order of $50m annually. This means that telephone subscribers have, in effect, been subsidising the telegraph service to the extent of about $12 each per annum. 
Against this background, the messenger delivery surcharge of 40 cents is not regarded as being discriminatory against persons who are not telephone subscribers but rather is designed to relate the price paid by the user of the telegraph service more closely to the cost of providing that service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) See answer to ( 1 ). 
The question of dismantling the Postmaster-General's Department and creating the 2 commissions was the subject of a substantial inquiry and it was a decision reached by the Whitlam Administration. The present Government parties had reservations and qualifications about it at the time and expressed them in their stated policy. We have said that we will continue the commissions but we will look at their performance to see whether any changes are necessary to make certain that although they conduct their affairs in a businesslike manner they take into account all the social requirements within Australia. The commissions are settling down. I think they are learning quite clearly that they have a responsibility to the Parliament. 
I have had substantial personal discussions with the  Chairman,  the commissioners and the managing directors and they accept that they have to keep me, and through me the Parliament, well and truly informed. The fact that they are commissions does not in any way avoid the requirement and the necessity to keep the Australian Parliament and the Australian nation informed about the tasks they carry out. All I can add is that my associations with the commissions are cordial. We are having a substantial number of discussions and of course I will keep in mind the requirement to have efficient operations in both telecommunications and in the postal service. I accept the need for them, particularly in country areas. 
-I am aware that there are problems concerning Groote Eylandt. For some time there has been a high frequency radio link and a telex with the island but the atmospheric conditions have caused trouble. I am aware that there have recently been distress calls. I will certainly accelerate an inquiry. The Department is looking at the possibility of improving the link and it is looking, in conjunction with the mining company there, at the possibility of improving the television translator station. I will be having a meeting with the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Sydney on Monday and that is one of the matters I want to discuss. I accept that the general question of communications between Groote Eylandt and the mainland and on the island itself is important, particularly when we have troubles Uke this. I assure the honourable member that I shall follow this matter through and keep him informed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Audit Act of 1901 was the fourth piece of legislation enacted by the Commonwealth Par.liament It contained principles and procedures which were derived from the Audit Acts which were then in force in each of the States and which in turn had their origins in the British Exchequer and Audit Act of 1866. It laid down the arrangements for the keeping of the public accounts and for the audit of them by an Auditor-General. It conferred certain powers on the Treasurer. It required an accounting from him after the close of each financial year and it required an explanation and report from the Auditor-General on the Treasurer's stewardship. 
The Audit Act of 1 90 1 has been amended on a number of occasions as circumstances have shown the need for new provisions, or for the better expression of existing ones. It can be said with confidence that all governments have approached the amendment of this basic and important piece of legislation with the most careful consideration of the need for change. The Act governs the accounting for and auditing of a vast range of transactions amounting to receipts and expenditures of, in 1975-76 Budget terms, $19 billion and $22 billion respectively throughout Australia, its Territories and in all parts of the world and which are initiated by 25 departments of state. It is therefore important that amendments which are put forward are responsive to growth in volume and variety of transactions and to changes in methods of processing them, as well as maintaining in an appropriate way proper elements of control and accountability which Parliament would expect to be applied to the management of the Government's financial affairs. 
In the past 10 years there have been significant changes in accounting methods and procedures. If this had not been so government departments could not have coped with the volume of work as efficiently as they have. Honourable members will be interested to know that in 1974-75 the Department of Social Security issued 56 million cheques and the Repatriation Department nearly 9 million. The total number of cheques issued on behalf of all departments was 76 million. These figures are the end product of a very considerable accounting work load- a work load governed by the Audit Act and the Treasury Regulations and Directions issued under the authority of that Act. I referred to changes in methods and procedures. Chief amongst these has been the use of computers and I believe that the Australian Government is in the forefront of governments in applying modern technology to government accounting. Almost all of the 76 million cheques I mentioned above are prepared by computers; certainly all are processed, after presentation, by computer and the bank accounts quickly and accurately reconciled. Computers also play a part in the calculation of many entitlements ranging from salaries to pharmaceutical benefits. Most of the Government's millions of individual transactions are recorded, analysed and summarised in ledgers and accounting records that are processed by computers. 
I have mentioned some of these matters to illustrate to honourable members the extent of the accounting work which government departments must do. But I want to go on to emphasise that it is not enough to have modern equipment and up to date systems unless the legislation under which departments must operate is sufficiently flexible to allow vast numbers of accounts to be processed quickly yet accurately without the need for unwarranted clerical effort. This Bill will amend the Audit Act in a way which will provide that flexibility without destroying the principles of control which are necessary, and have been necessary since 1901, to ensure that moneys are paid out only when it is clear that there is proper authority for the transaction and that the supply or service has been performed. 
Many of the amendments proposed in this Bill are of a technical nature and I will not therefore attempt to explain them all. Some have been proposed as a result of legal advice to rectify defects in the present law and thus to validate existing procedures. I am happy to say that all of them have the full support of the AuditorGeneral, who has been consulted at every stage in the preparation of this Bill. Most of the proposals have been explained to the Eighth and Ninth Joint Committees of Public Accounts. No difficulties were raised in these discussions. The few proposals which were not discussed with the committees are mainly of a drafting nature or designed to give proper authority for already accepted procedures. 
I turn now to some of the principal changes which are proposed. Clause IS amends section 32 of the principal Act in order to remedy a defect in the present wording which was raised by the previous Auditor-General. In certain Acts which contain standing appropriations, the payment of moneys is expressed to be conditional upon some event occurring or some action being carried out, and legal advice is that until that event occurs or that action is taken there is no available appropriation. The calculation of income tax refunds must, for example, follow assessment action and until that process has been completed the special appropriation for these refunds cannot be drawn upon. 
The principal amendment proposed will make it clear that appropriation is available for expenditure subject to the occurrence of the contingency or condition expressed in relation to the appropriation. This does no more than give proper legal backing to procedures which have been followed for many years, probably since Federation. This and other amendments to this section do not imply any change in procedures, or any reduction in control, and they do not vary the long-standing requirement for the Treasurer to seek a Governor-General's warrant to cover the amounts he expects to be disbursed, and the Auditor-General to certify, before the warrant is submitted to the Governor-General, that Parliament has provided an appropriation which will authorise the disbursement of those amounts. The steps relating to the payment of accounts set out in the present section 34 are to be amended by clause 19 to provide a framework within which the most modern procedures governing computer-based and other payment systems may be properly developed and prescribed. 
For such systems the present section is too stringent in its requirement which states:  ... no person shall certify any account until he shall have ascertained that the expenditure has been duly approved in writing by the prescribed authority and that the account is correct in every particular, and that the expenditure involved therein is in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable thereto and is charged against the proper head of expenditure. 
Systems developed for the preparation of accounts by computer do not enable a certifying officer to certify that the account is 'correct in every particular' or that it is 'in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable thereto' except insofar as he is enabled to rely on the various control points built into the computer programs and on information furnished to him by other prescribed officers. This does not, however, mean any loss of control over payments, which under a computerised system are computed from a vast number of individual records, always provided that there has been full observance of appropriate checks and controls as designed for the system. Under the proposed amendment it is this latter aspect, that of full observance of appropriate checks and controls, that becomes the central responsibility of the certifying officer. 
The proposed amended section 34 will allow the Treasurer to issue directions to certifying officers as to the checks to be imposed and for regulations to be made concerning procedures to be followed by them before they can give a certificate in those situations where it is impracticable to follow standard procedures. Clause 19 is also intended to clarify the authority of the Treasurer, already in section 34 of the Act, to approve act of grace payments and to authorise him to delegate this authority and thus facilitate the processing of claims for payments not otherwise authorised by law. 
Section  62a  of the Audit Act empowers the Treasurer to open trust accounts, to define their purposes and to close trust accounts. But the Treasurer cannot vary the purposes of a trust account after it has been established and this leads on occasions to the need to close a trust account and open another with a slightly differing title and differing purposes. Legal difficulties then arise in connection with the transfer of the value of assets, such as stores bought from the funds of the 'old ' trust account, to the ' new ' trust account, as there is nothing in the Act as it stands to authorise the transfer of such assets. Clause  20  amends section  35  to overcome this problem. 
Clause  2 1  inserts a new section to deal with the considerable administrative difficulties which currently arise with appropriations and appointments when the administrative arrangements are changed resulting in the abolition of departments or existing functions being transferred to another department or departments. This provision will authorise the Treasurer to issue moneys already appropriated for the discharge of functions in one department to another department for the purpose of corresponding functions which have been transferred to it by order of the Governor-General. The Treasurer would not, however, be authorised to issue funds beyond the limit of appropriations already made by the Parliament. 
Clause  28  will remove the requirement in section  42 (2)  of the present legislation for the Auditor-General to surcharge the person responsible for the loss of public moneys or stores, or damage caused to stores by fraud, mistake, default, neglect or error. Over the years that the surcharge provision has been in existence the Auditor-General's Office has experienced almost insurmountable difficulties in establishing default or neglect and the section has therefore been virtually non-operative. Moreover, it is no longer considered appropriate that the AuditorGeneral have the responsibility of deciding that recovery should be made in a particular case and without there being a requirement for proof of guilt or for a defence by the person at fault. Clause  45  replaces these outmoded provisions with more equitable procedures for the recovery of the loss of public moneys or stores that are under the control of an accounting officer or for the value of stores lost or deficient or damage to stores due to negligence or misconduct as a debt due to the Government, and gives to the Government, and its employees, the rights and protection of the law. 
The long-standing provision in section  5 1  of the Act requiring the Auditor-General to explain the Treasurer's statement of receipts and expenditure 'in full' is most difficult, if not impossible, to comply with. The amendment in clause  33  removes the difficulty confronting the AuditorGeneral in deciding precisely how far he should go in explaining the statement. The requirement as it stands is impracticable and has its origin in the early days of Federation when the expenditures of the Commonwealth were quite limited in volume and extent. The proposed change does not imply any reduction in the information to be given in the Auditor-General's report to Parliament; it simply means that the Auditor-General will exercise his judgment as to the need for explanation of particular expenditures. 
Clause  42  inserts a new Part which will provide proper authority for the Auditor-General to undertake certain audits in addition to those which Parliament specifically requires him to undertake. The first of these are audits imposed upon him by an ordinance of a Territory, as according to legal opinion he is not empowered to undertake such audits unless appropriate authority is given to him by the Audit Act. Secondly, there are the audits of quasi-departmental or inter-governmental activities in pursuance of a request by a Minister. It is undesirable as a matter of principle for the Auditor-General to accept such requests without a proper expression in the Audit Act of his standing and powers. A third category relates to public or private companies of which the Government is a member. 
In most of the cases I have just referred to it is appropriate for an audit fee to be charged so that the costs of audit are reflected in the accounts of the organisation. Legal advice, however, indicates that if audit fees are to be charged there should be proper authority for this in the Audit Act. Clause  42  will therefore make it clear that fees may be charged by the Auditor-General to- and paid by- an organisation for the audit of its books, records and financial statements. The standard accounting provisions applied to certain trading and administrative authorities have also been included in this Part in order to simplify the task of parliamentary counsel in drafting future public authority legislation. 
Honourable members will note that no change is proposed in this Bill to the powers and responsibilities of the Auditor-General. A good deal has been said in the Press and in other places about the need for management audits or efficiency audits. The case for the Auditor-General being required to go beyond regularity and to examine whether there has been 'value for money' has been strongly argued. The Government does not wish to make any such changes to the AuditorGeneral's powers at this stage but will give further consideration to whether they should be extended, and if so, just how they should be extended, at the appropriate time. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia has advised me that in 1974-75 an investment of $2,850 on average was involved in providing each additional service. For public telephones, additional costs of $ 1, 600 would be incurred on average for the cabinet, instrument, exchange equipment modifications and the provision of power.  1830 REPRESENTATIVES 29 April 1976  Answers to Questions 
The Department of the Media has been abolished. If I remember correctly, it was the policy of the then Opposition prior to the 1974 election that, in government, we would abolish the Department, as it was the policy of the Opposition prior to the last election. It was a very proper decision because, of course, the Department was both abused and misused by the former Government. The majority of the staff went across to the Department of Administrative Services. Of those who were with the broadcasting and television division- there were 100 positions- about sixty have had their positions abolished, leaving forty of them still with that particular division of my Department. If the honourable member wants details as regards the personalities involved he will have to put the question on notice. 
-It has been decided to have the sort of inquiry that has been instigated by the Government because the purpose of the inquiry is to look into the whole of the broadcasting system, particularly as it affects government and the relationships between all the components of the system such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the various sections of the commercial radio and television industry. The decision to hold the inquiry in this way was made to enable it to be held effectively, without a lot of grandstanding and without a lot of cost to the Australian taxpayers. There are within the Department of Post and Telecommunications competent people, people who are well skilled and who in some cases have had experience in the commercial area or the private industry. They are quite capable of conducting this inquiry and making submissions. 
There is nothing secret about the inquiry. We have made it perfectly clear that those people who want to make their submissions public may do so. We equally have said that if somebody wants us to maintain confidentiality we will do so. In the case of those who make public contributions, if there is a need or desire to have a reaction to a submission, of course such a reaction would help. By conducting the inquiry in this way we hope that we will get all the submissions quickly. We sent out, I think, about 900 invitations to all people interested in this matter. We are trying to get the broadest cross-section of the community to tell us their views about it. We will have their views available to us, we hope, by about the end of June so that I can make a submission to the Government some time in the August-September period. 
-A11 the reports? 
-No decision has been taken. There will be a recommendation to the Government from me. In regard to ethnic radio, that is a completely separate inquiry which is now being conducted with a number of other departments. When the Department advises me as to the best possible system, I will make a recommendation to the Government and the Government will reach a decision and that will be announced. 
-I am aware of the increase in the charge for mail bags. I am not aware that there has been a tremendous decrease in their use but if my honourable friend tells me that that has happened in his electorate I would accept his statement. 
He represents his electorate well and is very knowledgeable about it. 
-Of course, but they are still great Queenslanders. I have double the number but they are all great Queenslanders. The honourable member for Maranoa would know that I am concerned about the escalation in costs. We are all now paying the price for the mismanagement of the Australian economy that we had during the last few years. Of course I will look into this matter, discuss it with the Commission and report back to the honourable member. 
-I have been aware of this problem for some days now. Indeed it concerns, as the honourable member for Forrest has said, a  Mr Dracup  who joined the Australia Postal Commission service on 9 February. He did not join the union: He was subsequently approached by the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union and refused to join it. Of course, that is his right and his entitlement in a democratic country. 
-I heard an honourable member interject: 'He will learn'. He has been told by the Postal Commission that the policy of the Commission is to encourage organised unionism, but, of course, no attempt has been made to influence him. 
That is all very well, but this could well mean a total mail ban in Western Australia, and that is pretty serious. 
What about listening to the facts? The honourable member will then get the matter in some sort of perspective. First of all, bans were imposed on the mail for Busselton. An attempt was made to mediate. As the honourable member for Forrest would know, because it is in his electorate, an attempt was made on more than one occasion to mediate. At one stage  Mr Dracup  resigned. Then, of course, all the bans were lifted. He then reconsidered his decision to resign and withdrew his resignation. Again, as honourable members will know, he is entitled to do that. So, of course, the bans were immediately reimplemented. The Federal Executive of the APTU then said: 'If we cannot fix this matter in a limited way we will consider a State-wide mail ban'. What has happened up till now is that a limited ban has been imposed. As the honourable member has rightly said,  Mr Commissioner  Payne has convened a hearing for, I think, 2.30 this afternoon Perth time. I hope that reason and common sense will prevail because if they do not and  Mr Dracup  's rights have to be protected, we could have a very serious situation on our hands in regard to the mail service in Western Australia. 
-I appreciate the interest of the honourable member in the quality of television and broadcasting right throughout Australia. Of course it is true that there are pockets of areas in which the quality is not as high as we would wish it to be. It is not news to me that this occurs. All sections of the industry are interested and concerned. It is not a matter for me to take initiatives because they are ongoing - 
The honourable gentleman asked a long question. Now if he will listen he will receive a bit of information that will help him. The initiatives are continuing all the time and that is one of the reasons for the inquiry into the system generally which we are undertaking. Its aim is to achieve the best possible relationship between all the authorities involved. The honourable member asked me for a lot of detailed comments on matters involving local authorities and State governments. I will have a look at his question in detail and whatever I can do to assist in achieving the highest possible standard will of course be done. 
The question of foreign investment in Australia is of course a tremendously significant one. It is a matter of interest to the nation that this Government welcomes such investment in Australia. When we consider the enormous damage that was done nationally to the economy by the attitude of the previous Labor Administration it is significantly obvious - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am advised that office studies have been carried out by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to determine whether it would be possible to provide a television service to the unserved areas of the Eyre Peninsula at a per capita cost which comes within the economic guidelines to which the Board must adhere. The result of this investigation has indicated that the only town which might be able to be served within the economic guidelines is Streaky Bay, but even in this case, the conclusion is by no means firm and a field survey would have to be carried out by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to accurately establish the situation. Consequently, the Board has included Streaky Bay on the list of areas approved for survey. However, due to the large program of field work to which the Board is already committed throughout Australia, the Board's limited staff resources and the current expenditure constraints, it is not possible to advise a firm date by which these studies will be completed. It must be reiterated that the conduct of this investigation does not guarantee that a National Service will be provided to Streaky Bay as the  per capita  cost may be found to exceed the economic guidelines. 
in reply- I have little to add regarding this Bill to what I said in the second reading speech. I want to thank the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  for his response on this occasion and for his comments.  Speaker  after  speaker  in the debate has said that this is a very technical Bill. It is designed to improve efficiency. We are all aware of the tremendous changes in accountancy procedures, the use of computers and the need to have a greater flexibility. I think it important to repeat that these matters have been closely studied and agreed upon with the Auditor-General. 
I should like to respond to the shadow Treasurer, by saying that he is aware of the comments I made about efficiency audits. They will be considered. We do not believe it is appropriate on this occasion to do that but it is a matter which I accept we ought to be looking at. The comments and suggestions made by the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  will have the attention of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Time does not permit me to answer in detail tonight the things which concern my good friend and colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  But at an appropriate time I am certain that I will be able to satisfy him in all matters that he raised. I thank those who have contributed to the debate. It is pleasing to see that both the Opposition and the Government are of one mind concerning this matter. 
-Yes, certainly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The action was settled on the stipulation by the Plaintiff that the terms would not be disclosed. 
The person who precipitated the action was not an ABC staff member, but a contract commentator. His services have since been terminated. 
Staff members are under continual advice as to how to attempt to avoid the incidence of defamation actions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia Post's costing system is not structured to provide detailed cost proportions for a standard letter over various combinations of possible processing streams. Costs are apportioned in total across Australia Post's range of products and services under broad functional cost classifications. 
Based on 1974-75 financial results, the relative cost proportions for a standard letter under the broad functional classifications were: 
Sales and Counter Acceptance (postage stamp sales: bulk acceptance; weighing and acceptance at counters)- 1 1 per cent. 
Processing (postmarking; outward sorting, handling and dispatch at post offices; outward and transit sorting and handling at mail exchanges)- 39 per cent. 
Transportation (road, rail, sea and air conveyance: clearance of letter receivers)- 8 per cent. 
Delivery (inward sorting and handling at mail exchanges and post offices; postman and contract delivery)- 42 percent. 
The average direct and indirect cost proportions for a standard letter were 77 per cent and 23 per cent respectively and could be broken down into the following broad components: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia Post is not aware of a recent survey indicating that mail deliveries are too slow. 
Australia Post is, however, participating in a public opinion poll conducted by a specialist polling organisation. What the results obtained to date do show is that people are not aware of the quality of service which is actually being provided. For example, tests conducted recently by Australia Post show that next day delivery is achieved for 95 per cent of the letters posted by the last clearance for the day in metropolitan areas, for delivery in the same city and suburbs. However, only 56 per cent of people interviewed in March 1976 believed that mail addressed to the same city or town would be delivered next day. 
No. The percentage of people interviewed who rated the postal service as 'totally inadequate' in November 1975 and March 1976 was 6 per cent and 7 per cent respectively. This compares with 6 per cent and 5 per cent respectively who rated the service as 'excellent'. 
Yes. Tests conducted by Australia Post in March 1976 on the delivery performance for standard letters showed that 90 per cent were delivered on time in New South Wales, compared with a national result of almost 95 per cent delivered on time. In both cases, almost all the remaining letters were delivered the following day. 
Although Australia Post is providing a good service where transport schedules permit, there are areas of its activities which need to be improved in line with its objective of providing a fast and efficient service at least possible cost. With this in mind, Australia Post has in progress as an ongoing project a number of studies designed to identify particular problem areas and to develop appropriate solutions. At the same time, it is reviewing and seeking to improve service standards having due regard to the cost factors involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is not the intention of Australia Post to feature an effigy of the Queen on all its stamps.  Her  Majesty's portrait appeared on stamps in most common usage for quite a number of years. These stamps were replaced in 1973 by the current Marine Life and Gemstones series, initiating a stamp issue policy featuring subjects of wide popular appeal. However, Australia Post will issue commemorative stamps featuring the Queen when suitable occasions arise. 
Australian stamp designs are of a high standard and compare favourably with stamps from other countries. Our stamps are popular with overseas collectors as indicated by reports published in philatelic magazines and the level of philatelic sales conducted by Australia Post's overseas agents. Australia Post has not conducted any survey to obtain an assessment of the standard of Australian stamps compared with those of New Zealand, Malaysia and New Guinea. However, a fairly recent public opinion survey in Australia on Australian stamp designs and the subjects depicted on the stamps, showed that 64 per cent rated a representative sample of stamps as very good and good, 24 per cent rated them as average and 7 per cent considered the stamps poor and very poor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question as advised by Telecom Australia is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The registered name of the firm is Edward H. O'Brien Pty Ltd. 
1 July, 1973 and 30 June, 1978 respectively. 
The amount payable to Telecom Australia under the terms of the present contract is expressed as a percentage of the total amount payable by advertisers  for  advertisements in the Directories concerned. 
Telecom Australia. 
The current rates for the various types of advertisements in the directories concerned are: 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">
 Answers to Questions 19 May 1976 REPRESENTATIVES 2263 
-I well recall a question I was asked a few weeks ago, I think by the honourable member for Prospect, about the radio program  Blue Hills.  I was prepared on that occasion to be honest enough to tell the House that I never listened to  Blue Hills.  I shall be honest enough on this occasion to tell the House that I never watch the television program  Bellbird  either. Once I saw the publicity that occurred in relation to this matter I felt that an honourable member possibly would ask me a question, so I sought advice from the Australian Broadcasting Commission on this subject. I shall read a Press statement issued by  Mr Graham  White, the Assistant General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission: 
Considerable public reaction has been generated by reports that the ABC is either going to "axe'  Bellbird  or significantly change the program. The fact is that the ABC has decided to change the format of to translate it into a  weekly one-hour serial.  Bellbird  will remain on ABC television with its much-loved characters. There are several reasons for the proposed change. The most important reason is that the audience to  Bellbird n  some areas has been declining, although the ABC is aware that  Bellbird  remains extremely popular in most country areas throughout Australia. There has been no thought- 
I assure the honourable member of this- of taking  the serial  off the  air. 
In its present form, after 9 years on the air. it has become more and more difficult to sustain fresh and involving story lines, despite the great writing, acting and production talent associated with the program. 
The ABC is seeking a renewed vitality and a greater audience appeal for  Bellbird.  The change will take effect from Tuesday, 3 August. 
-I thank the honourable member for the information that he has given me in the question. Of course I will take the matter up with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The honourable member will appreciate, as I know all honourable members do, that the ABC has a real level of independence. It works, of course, within the budgetary allocation of the Government and it will continue to do so. Within the budgetary control which we as a Parliament exercise and take a great deal of interest in, there is enormous flexibility within the Commission and the management of its affairs. When information like this comes to my notice I take the appropriate opportunity to discuss it with the Commission. I will inform the honourable gentleman of the outcome of my discussions. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
The object of these 5 Bills is to amend the Wool Tax Acts (Nos 1 to 5) 1964-1975 so as to continue in force for another year the special levy of 5 per cent on the sale value of shorn wool which is collected in connection with the minimum reserve price scheme for wool. The levy was introduced at the inception of the scheme on 2 September 1974 to provide a fund for meeting any losses that may arise from minimum reserve price operations. 
Originally, both the scheme and the levy were to operate for one season only. Their operation was subsequently extended for another season and the present statutory provisions for the payment of the levy expire on 30 June 1976. In accordance with the Government's declared policy, the minimum reserve price scheme for wool will be extended further to operate during the 1976-77 season. A Bill has already been introduced to extend the relevant accounting provisions in the Wool Industry Act for this purpose. It is now proposed that the special levy which has been collected in connection with the scheme be similarly continued. If there is to be  no  interruption in the collection of the levy, the statutory provisions under which the levy is imposed must be amended before 30 June. 
As the Government is pledged to the continuation of reserve price support during 1976-77 at not less than the equivalent of 250c per kilogram clean for average-style 21 micron fleece wool, which is the basic of current support, continuation of the existing 5 per cent levy is seen as appropriate. Revenue from this levy is credited to the Market Support Fund established by the Australian Wool Corporation under amendments made to the Wool Industry Act in 1974. As already mentioned, the primary purpose of that Fund is to meet any losses arising from the minimum reserve price scheme. 
In the meantime the money contributed by growers for the purpose of the Fund may be used by the Corporation for the purchasing of wool in its reserve price operations and for advances to growers in respect of wool that has been temporarily withheld from sale at the Corporation's behest. Interest on such money used for those purposes is credited to the Fund by the Corporation. For administrative convenience the special levy of 5 per cent is collected in conjunction with the 3 per cent levy that represents wool grower contributions towards the financing of programs of wool research and promotion and the administration of the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. The present total levy of 8 per cent has been in force since August 1975. 
All the 5 Wool Tax Bills are similar in their text, which simply extends the operation of the special 5 per cent levy until 30 June 1977. The Acts which they amend are also similar but each covers a different wool marketing channel. The need for 5 separate acts arises from a constitutional requirement that laws imposing taxes should deal with one subject of taxation only. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1 976 is designed to give effect to the Government's decision to ban the advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco on broadcasting and television stations as from 1 September 1976 and to amend the existing provisions of the Act in relation to the licensing of television translator stations, community television aerial systems and to extend the provisions of the Act relating to television translator stations to permit the licensing of broadcasting translator stations. On 27 February I announced that the Government had decided to completely ban the advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco on broadcasting and television in line with the phase-out program which commenced on 1 September 1973. The phase-out program was developed at the request of the then Government by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, on the understanding that it would provide a breathing space to enable stations to develop alternative souces of revenue. The phasing-out plan developed by the Board expires on 31 August next, and the Bill provides for the banning of cigarette and cigarette tobacco advertising from 1st September. 
Reputable medical evidence indicates that cigarette smoking is causing a growing pernicious death toll including facts that approximately 90 per cent of lung cancer cases which now cause some 4000 deaths annually in Australia are related to cigarette smoking, as are 25 per cent of deaths from coronary heart disease. I am sure honourable members will agree the Government would be negligent in its duty if it did not take action to ban the advertising of such products in areas where it has constitutional power. In this connection the Government has agreed that the Minister for Health should pursue with State Health Ministers their proposals to work towards uniform legislation to control cigarette advertising in areas where the Commonwealth has no constitutional power. 
The other proposals in the Bill amend the existing provisions relating to the licensing of television translator stations and community television aerial systems and extend the provisions relating to television translator stations to permit the licensing of broadcasting translator stations. The existing provisions of the Act relating to translator stations restrict the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to making a recommendation that licences be granted in these areas on a criterion based on technical considerations. It is proposed that the provisions be extended to permit the Board to recommend the grant of a licence based on 'community of interest'. The proposals will enable the Board to recommend the grant of a licence where the television service already available does not emanate from a station which is identified with the local community- for example, in the case of a station close to a State border which may provide an adequate signal from a technical point of view to residents of the adjacent State but which does not provide appropriate programs. The amended provisions relating to Community Television Aerial Systems will similarly permit the Board to take into account 'community of interest' considerations when recommending the grant of licences, and provide for such systems to be developed where, for aesthetic reasons, housing estates could be planned without the necessity for houses to have individual external aerials. 
There is no provision in the existing Act to permit the licensing of broadcasting translator stations. There are many areas, mainly in the outback, where broadcasting services suffer some deficiencies and where the populations are insufficient to support the viable operation of a separate station. The proposed provisions will permit the extension of existing services to such fringe or nearby areas. The widespread use of broadcasting translator stations will also be necessary in respect of frequency modulation services as they are developed in order to fill in gaps in coverage caused by natural and manmade obstructions- for example hills, tall buildings, etc. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I thank the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  for his co-operation. It is much better that we reach agreement so that honourable members can have the longest possible time to debate this very significant legislation. I take this opportunity to speak for- a minute or two. I will not repeat the great virtues of the legislation. They have been spoken about many times over and are self-evident. Suffice it to say that many of the provisions are an integral part of the Government's strategy to restore full employment and economic growth. A number of honourable members, particularly those on the Government Treasury Committee which is chaired by the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)-  the Vice  Chairman  is the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)-  have spoken to me about problems in a number of industries that concern them. 
There is also a matter of concern to the honourable member for Lilley, and he will no doubt speak about that a little later on. I have been spoken to about the wine industry and the insurance industry. I am aware of the submissions that the hire industry has made. I have had some valuable discussions with representatives of that industry and also the chemical industry. I give an assurance to honourable members that we do not wish to delay the passage of this legislation. It is very desirable in the interests of the country that we get it through. I simply give them an assurance on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that the matters they have raised will be considered by the Government. 
I simply out of courtesy respond to the comments made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who is a former Treasurer. I wish that the honourable member could be a little brighter and happier about this legislation because I am certain he recognises that the legislation is a desirable stimulus to the economy. The honourable member, of course, talks about what the Government's intention is with regard to the Mathews Committee. If my memory serves me correctly, it was his Government which set up the Mathews Committee.  His  Government- maybe not the honourable member himself- the Labor Government, took absolutely no steps towards the implementation of the very desirable decisions and recommendations of the Mathews Committee. 
I can well recall that the honourable member for Oxley when introducing the Budget last year planned for a deficit, I think, of about $2.8 billion. When we came to office the prospects were closer to $5 billion than they were to $2.8 billion. I simply suggest to the honourable member who, of course, is not the shadow Treasurer but who takes an interest in financial and Treasury affairs, that he contain himself for about four more hours when the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  will be speaking to the Parliament. I know that the honourable member will be listening here with great attention. He will then know the intention of the Government. When he hears the statement tonight and subsequently the Budget in August I am certain that he will have a complete understanding of the Government's decisions by which we will steer the economy back to a progressive and growth situation. 
I do not intend to carry on a discussion with the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on this matter. I simply say to him again that he will have to await tonight's speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to see what decisions the Government has taken. He may speculate as much as he likes; he will know the facts tonight. The honourable member spoke about the Government's assisting people greatly to stay in business. In the course of the Labor Government, there were so many people forced out of business that it is about time that a private enterprise government was in office and gave real stimulus to getting people back into business, back into productivity, and helped to establish the employment opportunities which flow from that development. I listened most intently to the comments by the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and by other speakers in this debate. A line must be drawn somewhere. This is a very generous allowance. We believe that, to extend it too much further would not be to act in a proper budgetary or fiscal policy context. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 10. 
I first of all respond to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who talked about the problem of setting time limits in the Bill. The time limits that have been set will give industry a reasonable and certain period over which it can plan with confidence for re-equipment and expansion. I say to the honourable member for Mackellar that there are some practical difficulties in the amendment that he put to us. If the termination of the concession were to be extended to a date fixed by regulation, either the regulation would have general effect and thereby provide windfall gains to all manner of enterprises not affected by industrial action, or a separate date would have to be prescribed for each individual enterprise affected by industrial trouble. 
It could even be envisaged that in respect of a particular company a number of completion dates would have to be prescribed for separate items of the plant being installed where industrial disputes put the whole of a construction project behind schedule. Another problem with the amendment is that an industrial dispute delaying completion could be occurring overseas. There could also be difficulties in having to apportion blame for an industrial dispute. It would not be appropriate to extend the allowance if the company concerned itself- this is a possibilitywere at fault. Nevertheless, as I have said privately to the honourable member for Mackellar, and as I repeat now, the matter he has raised will be given due consideration. I appreciate his interest in bringing it forward to the Parliament. 
I will not respond to the honourable member for Melbourne Pons  (Mr Crean)  or the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  because I feel that the honourable members for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  and Wimmera  (Mr King)  adequately responded to them. I am very sorry that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is so dismal about this legislation. As we go through the debate his comments are becoming more and more extravagant each time he rises to his feet. I did not think that the honourable member had quite the same opposition to the investment allowance as did his predecessor, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, or the honourable member for Cunningham. But I am getting the impression that the honourable member is more violently opposed to the investment allowance than either of those 2 honourable members. I will restrict my remarks to the lessor-lessee relationship. I want to say this: The Government wants the benefit to flow on to the lessee. 
-I will make some comments which I hope will alleviate the worry in the honourable member's mind. We have stated quite clearly to the finance industry that it is to negotiate with the lessees because we want the benefit to be in the hands of the users. I am aware myself of a substantial number of small businesses which are considering the matter and discussing with finance companies arrangements which will see that the benefit is passed on. I do not think that we should get bogged down talking about multi-national companies and the sorts of things about which the honourable member for Cunningham spoke. 
Certain machinery has been set up. The situation will be closely monitored by the Taxation Office to see that correct procedures are followed. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has said quite specifically that we will be watching the situation closely. If we believe that the system is not working so that the end benefit is in the hands of the user, the matter will come up for reconsideration. I find it difficult to accept the comments of members of the Opposition that they cannot accept the simple fact of life that this measure will add to productivity and that this will mean increasing job opportunities. Of course, some members of the Opposition hold a philosophical attitude in regard to this matter. We could spend all night arguing the matter and still not satisfy their complaints about it. However, I state to the honourable member for Oxley who has raised a specific matter of lessor-lessee relationships that the matter has been given a lot of consideration. It has been the subject of intense discussion with the Treasury and Taxation Office. We will see that the benefit flows through to the user. 
We had an arrangement by which this debate was to conclude at 5.20 p.m. We have exceeded that time by a few minutes. Let me take a minute or two to respond, first of all, to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I listened carefully to the argument he put forward. We believe that there would be a number of other considerations we would have to take into account including the need to expand largely upon the problems that he has raised. As I have indicated to him, the matter will be studied and if it is possible that we can take into account, and assist him in, the concern that he has raised- it is a valid one- we will do so. 
I turn to the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I can understand his attitude. He is a former Minister for Housing and Construction. I simply want to put it to the honourable member for Hughes that he can produce all the figures and all the arguments he wishes, but he should look at the record of the Labor Administration. He should look at its record in the reduction of home ownership in Australia during its 3 years in office and look at the enormous increase in the costs of housing. 
The management of the economy under Labor made it so much more difficult for the average Australian to purchase land, to build a home and to pay the extraordinarily high rates of interest. This was all an integral part of the management of the economy under the Labor Administration. I thank members on both sides who have contributed to the debate; some contributions were helpful, others 1 believe were damaging. Nevertheless, it has been a worthwhile debate and I thank all those who contributed. 
Amendment negatived. Question put: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and 2 others I shall shortly introduce mark the commencement of personal income tax indexation in Australia. These indexation measures are a turning point in taxation policy in this country. They are among the most important and far reaching tax reforms ever introduced into the Parliament. Indexation is to apply to tax on incomes of the year 1976-77 and its effects are to be reflected in PA YE deductions from salaries and wages as from 1 July next. 
The Bills are also related to other aspects of the policy package the Government is presenting. They deal with aspects of the better and fairer system of family assistance, and reductions in Government expediture that are elements of that package. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has elsewhere explained the concepts on which personal income tax indexation is based. Nevertheless, I think that in this speech, which is related so directly to the subject, it would be appropriate for me to reiterate some of the Treasurer's earlier remarks. There is no doubt that the effects of inflation combined with a progressive income tax rate scale are demonstrably unfair to taxpayers. For example, an employee sees wages increased, but if they merely keep pace with inflation he knows this does not maintain real income after tax. 
Without indexation of the income tax rates scale, the wage increase forces the employee into a higher tax bracket. The higher tax has the effect of reducing real income. It is, of course, not only wage and salary earners that are caught up in this interaction between extra money income and the tax scales. Business people are just as much affected. In broad terms, personal income tax indexation seeks to avoid these situations mainly by providing for income tax brackets in the rate scale to be adjusted in an appropriate way for inflation. In the Bills I am presenting the income brackets in the tax scale are being adjusted by 13 per cent. 
As already explained, this represents the increase in the average level of the consumer price index for the year ended 31 March 1976 over its average level in the preceding year, as reduced by the effects of indirect taxes. Other countries use the consumer price index on a corresponding basis as the measure for tax indexation. As a simple example of what is achieved by this form of indexation we can take the case of a person who had a taxable income of $10,000 in 1975-76. In this case the marginal rate of tax for 1975-76 is 35 cents in the dollar on the amount of income between $5,000 and $ 10,000. If the same person had an income of $11,300 in 1976-77, that is, an increase of 13 per cent, the marginal rate on the extra $1,300 would, without indexation, be 45 cents in the dollar. With indexation the rate on the extra $1,300 will stay at 35 cents thus reducing tax on it by $130. Not only that, the taxpayer will make savings from indexation of the brackets lower down the scale. That is what indexation is mainly about. But, as I Will mention later, certain tax rebates are also being, indexed upwards and this will mean further savings for many. taxpayers 
Turning now to the technical provisions of this Bill, I should say firstly that the tax rebate to be allowed for' the maintenance of a spouse,, a daughter-housekeeper or a housekeeper is to be increased from $400 to $500 for 1976-77. The sole parent rebate is to be increased from $200 to $350. If these 2 rebates had only been indexed they would have become $452 and $226 respectively. The Government believes, however, that in these 2 areas indexation alone would not have gone far enough, bearing in mind other changeswhich are being made, and has accordingly increased the rebates by considerably more than the indexation factor. The rebate for an invalid relative is to be indexed so that it becomes $226 instead of $200. Similarly, the rebate for a parent or parent-in-law will become $452 instead of $400. The general rebate of $540 is to be indexed by 13 per cent and will thus become $610. It is not proposed at this stage to index certain other tax allowances. 
The most important of these are payments for life insurance or superannuation- present limit $1200- education expenses- present limit $250 per person- and rates on private dwellingspresent limit $300. We are not alone in limiting indexation in this marginal way. For example, the Mathews Committee discloses at page 205 of its report that Canada restricts indexation to personal exemptions and the tax brackets. The report states that in Canada standard medical and charitable deductions are not indexed, nor are deductions for employee expenses or contributions to pension and retirement funds. The Government is committed to on-going indexation and the legislation provides accordingly. Explicitly, it states that indexation for financial years following 1976-77 is to be based upon upward movements in the consumer price index during the 12 months ending on 31 March of the previous year, excluding increases resulting from indirect taxes. 
The precise indexation factor is to be determined on these guidelines by the Treasurer. The indexation factor is to be applied in years beyond 1976-77 to all elements of the system that are being indexed for that year. For this purpose it is proposed that the spouse and sole parent rebates, although actually substantially increased for 1976r77, are to be regarded as having been indexed. 
I should mention specifically there is to be indexation of the element of the Zone A and Zone B allowances which is related to rebates for maintenance of dependants. Although, as I shall refer to later, the Government's new proposals for better and fairer family allowances entails the withdrawal of tax rebates for children, this will not exclude them from the basis for calculation of the zone allowances. In effect, the dependants rebate element in the zone allowance will be continued as if all the relevant rebates were still in existence and were being indexed at the 1 3 per cent rate. 
Before I pass on from the indexation proposals I should mention two other matters, one affecting the separate net income provisions associated with dependants rebates and the other affecting provisional tax payable for 1976-77. At present the maximum amount of separate net income a dependant may have without reducing the rebate allowable is $150. This amount is to be increased to $170. As regards provisional tax, it is to be borne in mind that it is payable for 1976-77 on income for 1975-76. Provisional tax is the equivalent for self-employed people of PA YE deductions for employees. The difference is that employees pay on current income while self-employed people pay on income lagged one year behind. 
When, as is now proposed, there is a change in tax rates specifically attributable to general inflation on incomes there is, in the Government's view, a strong case for not applying the indexed rates in determining provisional tax when the incomes themselves are not indexed for that purpose. This is so because the tax is being calculated on income of the previous year and it would involve a sort of 'double counting' to apply the indexed rates scale in determining it. For these reasons it has been decided that provisional tax for 1976-77 will be charged on 1975-76 incomes at 1975-76 rates. Allowance will, however, be made for increased dependants rebates, and zone allowance, where they are relevant, and the child dependant allowances that are to be abolished will not be allowed. 
I have spoken elsewhere of the Government's proposals for an improved scheme of family allowances and pointed out the reasons for the consequential removal of the rebates for maintenance of children from the income tax law. The Bill effects this removal which, of course, will apply for the first time in assessments based on 1976-77 income. It will not affect assessments for the current year, 1975-76. 
The final matter dealt with by the Bill is associated with the Government's firm commitment to reduce Government expenditure. It deals with the taxation of certain social security payments. In 1976-77 and subsequent income years it is proposed that particular social security benefits be included in assessable income and thus made subject to income tax. Service pensions available to ex-servicemen and women between the ages of 60 and 65 and 55 and 60 respectively are to become taxable for 1976-77. These pensions are the equivalent of age pensions which are already taxable. In fact, service pensions are now exempt from tax while the recipient is under the qualifying age for an age pension. As soon as that age is reached the pensions become taxable. This is an anomalous situation which the Bill will eliminate. 
Also to become taxable are widows pensions and supporting mothers benefits. Widows pensions are, subject to a means test, paid at the same rates as age pensions. As age pensions are taxable, it is anomalous for widows pensions to be outside the tax net. The supporting mothers benefit is analogous to the widows pension and is to be treated in the same way for tax purposes. 
Finally, unemployment and sickness benefits are to become taxable. The present exemption from tax of this form of income gives rise to serious anomalies. It is usually received for short periods and its exemption from tax can make a recipient of it better off than a person who has worked all the year round and received the same total income, not including any unemployment or sickness benefits. The Government does not believe that this could possibly be viewed as a right result and proposes that it should no longer occur. 
In conclusion I mention that the Government has deemed it prudent to proceed with indexation of the personal tax system at this time rather than await the outcome of a review of the system. Our indexation of the present system is evidence of our strong commitment to indexation which we regard as urgently necessary. Technical aspects of the Bill are discussed in an explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a technical measure made necessary by the proposed move into indexation of the personal income tax. It is supplementary to the Bill to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act which I have just introduced. The Bill will, in effect, establish a standing measure setting out the rates of tax applicable to individual taxpayers for 1976-77 and subsequent years of income. The rates declared in the Bill reflect those declared for 1975-76 indexed by 13 percent. 
The Bill also provides-in the terms I have described in my earlier introductory speech- for the means of automatic indexation of those rates in subsequent years according to the criteria that I have mentioned. The indexed rates it declares will be applicable in 1976-77 and subsequent years only if an Act to impose them in respect of each year is passed. A separate Bill which I will shortly introduce will impose the indexed rates for 1976-77. An explanatory memorandum on the Bill is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is also supplementary to the Income Tax Bills I have earlier introduced. It will impose tax payable by individuals and trustees for 1 976-77. As I have already explained, tax is to be imposed at the rates declared for 1975-76 indexed by 1 3 per cent for inflation. This means that the 7 steps included in the existing scale are to be changed so that the lower and upper limits are 13 per cent more than in 1975-76. For example, the 1975-76 bracket of $5,000 to $ 10,000 in respect of which a marginal rate of 35 per cent is payable becomes $5,650 to $1 1,300 for 1976-77. Tax in the brackets up to $5,650 will be 27 per cent, so that the slice of income between $5,000 and $5,650 will be taxed at 27 per cent instead of the 35 per cent that would have applied if there had been no indexation. The flat 50 per cent rate payable by trusts assessed under section 99A of the Income Tax Assessment Act is not being changed. Rates of tax for a financial year are not customarily imposed until the Budget sittings. 
The early imposition in this instance is, of course, due to the Government's wish to get the beneficial effects to taxpayers of the indexed rates scale and rebates into the pay as you earn system as from 1 July. The Bill does not impose rates for 1976-77 for companies or superannuation funds. An explanatory memorandum setting out technical explanations of the Bill is being circulated for the assistance of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
(9.58)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, in association with other Bills I shall shortly present, introduces the health insurance levy and other taxation arrangements necessary to implement the modifications to Medibank. The reforms were announced in the statement earlier today by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and are explained in some detail in the statement made by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  As indicated earlier, and as I now re-affirm, the universal cover provided by Medibank is being retained. The levy and associated arrangements do not mean anything else. 
In brief, a health insurance levy of 2.5 per cent of taxable income is to be imposed. It will be payable by Australian residents who do not have appropriate cover for themselves and their families with a registered private insurance fund, or through payment of a premium to Medibank. The legislation proposes a basic rate of levy on the taxable incomes of taxpayers. But there will be an exemption from the levy for that part of an income year in which a person has appropriate cover for both hospital and medical benefits with a registered private insurance fund or through a premium paid direct to Medibank. The cover must extend to any dependants of a person for the exemption to be available. Payment of a family contribution will provide exemption for each member of a 2-income family. Exemption from the levy will also be granted to repatriation beneficiaries who are entitled to full free medical and hospital treatment under the repatriation system and who have no dependants, or who have dependants who are also so entitled. 
Repatriation beneficiaries who are entitled to full free medical and hospital treatment, but whose dependants are not so entitled, will have the basic rate of levy reduced to one-half of the ordinary rate. These people will not, however, be subject to any levy if their dependants are covered through payment of appropriate private insurance or Medibank premiums. Defence force personnel will be eligible for relief from the levy on the same lines as is proposed for repatriation beneficiaries. A person will be treated as a 'dependant' of a taxpayer if he or she is the taxpayer's spouse or child under 16 years of age, and the taxpayer contributes to his or her maintenance. A child of the taxpayer who is aged 16 or more but less than 25 and who is a full-time student will be treated as a dependant if his or her income is not above $ 1 ,073. 
In making these reforms, the Government has been concerned to ensure that people with relatively small incomes should not in any event be called on to pay the levy. The method we have chosen to achieve this is to allow people who pay no income tax because their concessional rebates exceed tax calculated at scale rates to apply the excess rebates against the levy. As a result of this and the other changes in the income tax system which were announced today, a taxpayer entitled to a full rebate for a spouse will not be liable to pay the levy if his or her taxable income is $4,299 or less. A single taxpayer will not be liable to pay the levy if his or her taxable income is $2,604 or less. These low income reliefs, and the fact that levy payable will be graduated according to income, demonstrate that our reforms have given recognition to the circumstances of the less well off sections of the community. 
The levy, where it is payable, will be collected through the income tax system, but shown as a separate item on notices of assessment. People who insure privately, or who pay a premium to Medibank or who are eligible for exemption as a repatriation beneficiary or serviceman or woman will lodge a certificate from the body concerned with their tax returns. This will provide a basis for granting them exemption from the levy. A declaration by an employee to an employer that he or she is covered in one or other of these ways will mean that pay-as-you-earn deductions made from the employee's salary or wages will not include the levy. 
All the modifications proposed by the Government are to come into operation on 1 October 1 976. In consequence of this, the rate of levy to be applied on assessment to taxable incomes for 1976-77 is to be three-quarters of the full year rate. The basic rate of levy on 1976-77 taxable income will therefore be 1.875 per cent instead of the full year rate of 2.5 per cent. People who qualify for exemption from the levy for the 9 months from 1 October 1976 will be granted exemption for the full year. Qualification for a shorter period will give proportionate partial exemption. So that PAYE deductions incorporating the levy will approximately match the end-of-year levy liability, the rate of levy to be incorporated in PAYE deductions from 1 October 1976 is to be the full year rate of 2.5 per cent. 
Provision is also being made for the withdrawal of the existing concessional rebate for contributions to hospital and medical benefits funds. This will apply to all contributions made for insurance packages which qualify for exemption from the levy, and for all other hospital and medical benefits insurance payments made on or after 1 October 1976. All the provisions of the Bill are explained in an explanatory memorandum that has been prepared for the information of honourable members and it remains only for me at this stage to commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
When introducing the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill I outlined the basic features of the Government's scheme for introduction of a Health Insurance Levy. The Health Insurance Levy Bill declares the basic rate of levy. For 1976-77 this will be 1.875 per cent of taxable income, that is, three-quarters of the full-year rate of 2.5 per cent. As I mentioned in my speech on the first Bill, the rate will be reduced by onehalf for certain repatriation beneficiaries and Service personnel. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This short Bill is of a technical nature. The Bill is needed because the proposed Health Insurance Levy will be collected through the income tax system and is for many technical purposes to be treated as an income tax. In substance, however, the levy is a payment for health insurance. It will be paid only by people who do not have insurance with a registered private insurance fund and do not pay a premium direct to Medibank. In these circumstances it would be inappropriate to treat the levy as an income tax against which people who have income from foreign sources may credit foreign tax. The amount to be paid for medical services should not be reduced in this way. The Bill, which I commend to the House, ensures that the levy will not be so treated. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is expected that the Menindee station will commence operation in August 1976. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Broadcasting Control Board, as the authority responsible for the technical standards of broadcasting and television stations, has given considerable attention to the problem of 'noisy commercials'. However, the Board has no power to prevent television advertisements being processed' in such a manner as to make them sound loud. Indeed, some degree of sound 'processing', quite apart from control of volume, is involved in the making of any recording. 
) 1 am advised that the Board has, over the years, observed a number of cases in which there are apparent varying levels of loudness between advertising matter and program matter which suggest that the sound component of some advertisements has been 'processed' to make them sound loud. 
Although the normal technical facilities installed at stations ensure the proper control of volume, the measurements obtained by such facilities do not always correspond with the subjective loudness as heard by the human ear. Devices have been developed on a limited scale overseas for the automatic control of loudness but, at this stage, the Board is not satisfied that these devices present an effective answer to the problem. 
The Board assures me that it regularly monitors the programs of commercial television stations and is continuing to keep the question of 'loud ' advertisements under examination in an endeavour to find a practical solution. It is a problem of some complexity and an early solution is not foreseen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The Postal and Telecommunications Department has existed only since December 1975. It absorbed the PostmasterGeneral's and some functions of the former Department of the Media. The sums given below for 1973-74 and 1974-75 refer to the Postmaster-General's Department prior to the vesting of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions. The sums given for 1975-76 refer to the new Department from December 1975 until 31 March 1976 and to the former Postmaster-General's Department together with the now absorbed sections of the Department of the Media from July to December 1 975. 
1973- 74- 
Ansett Airlines of Australia...... 365.360 
Trans-Australia Airlines....... 996.478 
1974- 75- 
Ansett Airlines of Australia...... 479,0 1 8 
Trans-Australia Airlines....... 1,402.365 1975- 76(upto31 March 1976)- 
Ansett Airlines of Australia...... 1.538 
Trans-Australia Airlines....... 2.783 
(a) Payments by the Australian Postal Commission between 1 July 1975 and 31 March 1976- 
Ansett Airlines of Australia........ 50,625 
Trans-Australia Airlines......... 112.811 
MacRobertson Miller Airline....... 14.158 
East-West Airlines........... 3.038 
Airlines of New South Wales....... 3.861 
Airlines of South Australia........ 880 
Miscellaneous Air Services........ 2.276 
(b) Payments by the Australian Telecommunications Commission between 1 July 1975 and 9 April 1976- 
Ansett Airlines of Australia........ 260,880 
Trans-Australia Airlines......... 733.178 
The Government believes that the Financial Support Fund will constitute a valuable financial facility that could assist countries to adjust to changed economic circumstances without resort to measures which could damage world trade, production and employment. Australian participation in the Fund will be a demonstration of our support for a significant initiative in the field of international co-operation which will thereby strengthen our relations with our major allies and with our major trading partners. It is therefore gratifying that we have had the bipartisan approach to the debate on this occasion. On behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  I thank the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I regret that I was unable to be in the chamber to hear him speak. I also thank the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  and the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  for their very valuable contributions to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My attention has not been directed to the article to which the honourable member referred, but I shall have a look at it after question time. Of course, the Act lays down in some detail what the requirements of the Postal Commission are, and that Act was introduced by the previous Labor Administration. As I have said to the House before, we had some reservations and there were some qualifications about it at the time it was introduced, and we expressed those reservations and qualifications. But we did not oppose the Bill and it became an Act. It is not the  Chairman  of the Commission; it is the Commission as an entire entity which has a responsibility to look after the affairs of the postal service basically without interference on a day to day basis. 
May I take this opportunity of saying to the honourable member that my contact with the Commissions, particularly with the chairmen of the commissions has in recent weeks been such that there are very real, close relationships and co-operation so that the Parliament and the commissions can work together for the benefit of the postal and telecommunications service. I believe that part of the improved relations has resulted from the work carried out by the Government members' committee on this subject and the contribution that a number of parliamentary members have made to it. I believe that we will have the co-operation that will be of benefit to all. 
-I heard that unfounded rumour late last night. I suppose that it arose because the expenditure for the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be reduced next year. That is why we hear this sort of damaging and unnecessary speculation. I assure the honourable member, and, indeed, other honourable members from Tasmania and all Australians that the matter could not have been discussed. First of all, the General Manager of the ABC is on leave. The Commission has not met since the Government's decisions were taken. I do not think that it meets until next Thursday or Friday. I put the rumour in the bracket of utter speculation and, if I were the honourable member, I would ignore it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present membership of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the requested details areChairman: M. F. E. Wright (full-time). 
Continuing terms totalling 10 years 9 months commencing 1 5.3.66 and expiring 3 1.1 2.76. 
Journalist, Writer, Theatrical Actor, Producer, General Manager Radio Station 3AW and Member Royal Womens' Hospital Board of Management. 
Producer of radio features. Producer 3AW 1947. Production Manager 1950. Assistant Manager 1954. General Manager 1955-56, President Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters 1962-63. 
Vice-Chairman: J. E. Neary, O.B.E. (full-time). 
Continuing terms totalling 5 years 7 months commencing 27.6.73 and expiring 31.1.79. 
Artists' Manager, Entrepreneur, Theatrical Promoter, Film and Television Producer. Preparation on behalf of Australian Government of Australian stage presentations at Expo 67 (Canada), Expo 70 (Japan) and Expo 74 (U.S.A.). Administrator of Australia's participation in United States Bi-Centenary Celebrations. 
Extensive experience for more than 25 years in the radio, television and entertainment industries. 
Member:  Dr G.  N. Evans (full-time). 
Five years commencing 1.1 1.75 and expiring 30.10.80. 
M. Sc. Agric. (Sydney), Ph. D. (Cornell), Research Scientist CSIRO 1967-71, Secretary to Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts 1972-74, Adviser to Minister for Manufacturing Industry and then Minister for the Media. 
Secretary of Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts which inquired into broadcasting and television. Adviser to Minister for the Media. Member of Working Party on Public Broadcasting. 
Member:  Dr Patricia  Edgar (part-time). 
Five years commencing 13.10.75 and expiring 12.10.80. 
B.A. and B. Ed. (Melbourne), M.A. (Stanford), Ph. D. (La Trobe), Senior Lecturer, Centre for the Study of Educational and Communication Media, La Trobe University. Author and co-author of publications concerning television programmes and the media. Chairperson of Advisory Committee on Program Standards appointed by the ABCB in September, 1975. 
See details in (b) above. Member E. A. Kellan (part-time). 
Three years commencing 30. 1.76 and expiring 29. 1.79. 
Formerly Managing Director of Dunlop Australia Ltd. and subsidiary companies. Currently a Director of a number of companies including Dunlop Australia Ltd. 
Nil. 
-I regret that I was unable to hear the rest of the question that the honourable member for Darling Downs had in mind, but suffice it to say that I have noted his comments. Of course, the programming of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is a matter for its judgment. It is quite possible for me to make a comment or a request to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as it is proper, I think, for any member of the Australian community to do so. I will certainly take up the comment inherent in the honourable member's question. I cannot, of course, give any guarantees about the matter, but I will have it looked at. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wool Tax Amendment Bills (Nos 1 to 5), as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I therefore suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia and Australia Post purchased a range of vehicles including vans from Thiess Toyota Pty Ltd during 1975-76. Some bodywork and fittings were supplied in Australia but generally the vehicles were imported fully built up. 
A total of 1807 vehicles were purchased from Thiess Toyota Pty Ltd of the following types: 
-I am very well aware of the requirements of the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission under the relevant Acts. I inform the honourable member, and indeed the whole House, that the Commissions were established only last July. There has been a settling down period, and now there is a greater degree of efficiency and understanding of the requirements by the Commissions. They do have to achieve at least 50 per cent of their expenditure for capital works out of revenue. The Postal Commission, of course, is labour intensive. In the case of Telecom there is a large capital requirement and proposed expenditure next year is of the order of something more than $800m. So there will be a need for internal funding of a little more than $400m by the Telecommunications Commission. 
The relationships between the Commissions and me are of a high order. The Commissions have a great understanding now of their need to take into account social requirements, and indeed cultural requirements, in their activities. I have been asked a number of questions without notice, and indeed questions on notice, which have helped us to know what is in the minds of honourable members. Because of the discussions that have occurred the Commissions are very much aware of their need to serve the Australian community in the broadest sense. I hope to be announcing a little later initiatives in relation to the marketing and the servicing of both the Commissions which I am certain will please the honourable member and every other honourable member in the House. 
-Comparative figures were provided by the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission during the 1975-76 Budget discussions. Expenditure by the Postal Commission increased from $423m to $5 12.5m, an increase of 21.2 per cent. Revenue of the Postal Commission increased from $360m to $5 12.8m, an increase of 42.4 per cent. That is not a bad achievement. The honourable member for Maranoa, who has had a long association with this problem, will know, of course, that in the old Postmaster-General's Department days those commissions were treated as one large enterprise. In 1974-75 the deficit in the postal area was $63m. The expenditure of the Telecommunications Commission was $980m, and has increased to $ 1,331m, an increase of 35.8 per cent. Revenue has gone from $ 1,080m to $l,484m, an increase of 37.4 percent. In the telecommunications area the surplus for 1974-75 was $ 100m. That is the answer to the first part of the honourable member's question. 
I turn now to the second part of the question. As I have already indicated, under the Act the Commissions are to meet all operating costs and to provide 50 per cent of capital from internal sources. In the case of the Postal Commission, which is highly labour intensive, this will  not  be large but in the case of the Telecommunications Commission, as the honourable member well knows, the requirement will be substantial. In answer to some of the detail in the question let me say that the movement of mail in many areas is dependent upon carriage by private mail contractors. The decline in rural activity and the greater use of private vehicles have affected the price at which mail contractors in some areas have tendered for the service of carriage of mails. Where the Commission believes that tenders were excessive it has reluctantly reduced the service in some areas from 5 times a week to 3 times a week. A blanket approach cannot be taken because in some rural areas there has been an improvement in the service provided. 
As I indicated earlier, a number of new marketing initiatives will be announced very shortly. I am certain that they will please the honourable member, as they will please all honourable members. I want to say this: We have been very conscious of the probing questions and the interest shown particularly by honourable members who represent rural seats. In response to that and in response to the Commission's work and my own interest I believe that we will make decisions shortly which will be pleasing to everyone. As to the last part of the question, the honourable member will know that I cannot possibly react to it  until after  the Budget discussions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Telecom Australia advises that new telephone services in the electoral division of Sydney are being provided within one to two weeks. The standard of service on the clearance of faults is not as good as Telecom Australia would like to provide in this area. Wet weather conditions have been an inhibiting factor in achieving an improvement in performance. There is some shortage of skilled staff in this particular location due to wastage and efforts are being made to overcome the problem by transfers. 
It is expected that fewer apprentices will be recruited in Sydney at the end ofl 976. 
The Government's policy is that the telephone network should continue to be developed to serve the reasonable needs of the Australian community. Every action possible will continue to be taken to provide the Telecommunications Commission with the resources to implement that policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The industrial problems in Western Australia associated with the employment of a Postal Officer at Busselton have been resolved. I have no knowledge of any allegations that the difficulties were being promoted by any organisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Telecom Australia has advised that, at the end of April, the number of deferred applications was 12 622. It is expected to be marginally lower at the end of the year. 
-It is true that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has been a very large and successful entrepreneur by world standards. Not only has it brought many overseas artists and productions to Australia but also as honourable members know it does a lot to stimulate productions and encourage art within Australia. I want to *ike this opportunity to say to the House that there is no question of any of the State symphony orchestras being under threat because of reductions in the expenditure of the ABC. 
-Because I have had the assurance of the  Chairman  and the General Manager; that is the only way I would know that. As to the other part of the question, of course the ABC is allocated an amount for expenditure and up till now the Commission has used its own discretion as to how that expenditure is made. We are all aware that a substantial amount of that expenditure is for staff. We are also aware, of course, that a lot is spent on education. We do not know exactly- no doubt the ABC knows exactly- what amount is contributed towards the area of musical entrepreneuring 
I find the honourable member's suggestion interesting. It might well be helpful to the Parliament, to the Government and to the ABC if this suggestion were included in an understanding in the allocation of funds for the Commission. It would be the sort of suggestion in which the present inquiry into the broadcasting system would be interested. I will make certain that the inquiry gets to hear about it. The suggestion may form part of some appropriate submission that the ABC may make. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
The information required is detailed in Table 'A'. Summaries in reply to Questions (1) and (3) are at Tables 'B' and *C Table 'D' summarises the answer to Question (2). The information is based on details supplied to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board by the licensees of the commercial stations and by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in respect of the national stations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
International Public Relations Pry Ltd. 
11 August, 1975. 
, (5) and (6) A set professional fee was paid each month. The Commission considers that the detail of its arrangement with the company is a matter of commercial confidence between the parties concerned. 
Agreement. 
See answer to (4), (5) and (6) above. 
There was no set period for the agreement which was subject to termination by either party on three months notice Formal notice of termination was given by the Postal Commission on 1 1 March, 1976. 
and (11) The consultants provided assistance in a number of public relations exercises and advice on a number of proposed activities by the Commission in this field. 
Broadcasting Stations: Licences (Question No 392) 
-The answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While I am not prepared to make the condition suggested by the honourable member, I support the proposition that the use of Australian made transmitters be encouraged where the performance is at least equal to and the cost is competitive with equipment manufactured overseas. The market is, of course, a limited one and I would regard a condition such as the honourable member proposes as interfering with the right of the licensees of stations to obtain the equipment best fitted to their requirements, provided it meets the technical standards determined by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
No approaches have been made to my Department by representatives of trade unions or employer organisations in relation to such a proposal. 
Let me say in answer to the honourable member for Kennedy that the officers of the Department were carrying out the law. I appreciate the need for communications in the remote, outback parts of Australia and the importance of these radio transmitters especially for the protection of property and life. As the honourable member knows, licences are issued for people to use these transmitters properly. In some cases they were operated illegally, without licences, and in other cases the operators did not conform to the requirements of the licence. Substantial information has gone to the honourable gentleman so that he can convey it to the people of his electorate. Where people abide by the rules they will be given every assistance by the Department in the communications network throughout his electorate. 
-I welcome the question from the honourable member for Corio. I think this is the first occasion on which he has taken the opportunity to direct a question to me concerning the Post and Telecommunications Department. I welcome the belated interest which he has decided to take in its affairs. I am not in a position to disclose to him the trading results of the Postal Commission. It is true that, because of substantial increases in charges through the range of services provided by the Commission, what was formerly a substantial deficit has become an operating surplus. The final figures will, of course, be made available a little later on in the year. The application of whatever surplus may appear will depend on the decision of the Government. No decision whatsoever has been taken. 
The matter of future charges will be decided in the context of the overall situation when the Cabinet looks at this general question. All I want to indicate to the honourable member is that both Commissions have made every effort within their area of responsibility to reduce costs. I have every hope that we will be able to take some marketing initiatives in the next few months. The marketing initiatives we take will become available because of the interest Government supporters have taken in this matter and because of the substantial interest taken by the Government members' committee and the Commissions. That interest shows the desirability of having people with business capacity serving on the Commissions and the desirability of my own consultation with them. If the honourable member possesses a little patience all will be made known to him in the fullness of time. 
-On 5 May 1976, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  asked me the following question, without notice: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware of the large increases inmost and telecommunications charges but I refer him to one in particular, the private mail bag charge which has gone up 100 per cent to $30. Is he aware that as a result of this, a large number of private mail bags have been cancelled and therefore there has been no worthwhile increase in total revenue to the Postal Commission and that largely there has been just a disadvantage to many former users? 
As mail bags are provided by the users and are of advantage to postmasters and mailmen for sorting mail as well as being a protection for mail being delivered, will the Minister take this matter up with the Commission with a view to having the charge reduced to its former level of $15 which is quite high enough for this service? 
The following is in answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am aware that some private bags have been cancelled. 
The Postal Commission has been reconsidering the charges for private mail bag services and hopes to be in a position to announce some changes shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's answer to Question No. 526 which appeared in Hansard on 26 May 1976, page 2525. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Expenditure (Question No. 547) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 1 02 members of the ABC 's staff, comprising television and radio technicians, production staff, make-up personnel, journalists, news readers, typists, clerks, teleprinter operators and computer operators, were employed at the National Tally Room. 
54. 
$6,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1 per cent increase referred to was forecast by Telecom Australia in the document 'Service and Business Outlook 1975-76' which was published in August last year. Telecom Australia has advised that the engineering construction program is now expected to be slightly lower, in constant price terms, than for the year 1 974-75. 
Telecom Australia indicated in the document 'Service and Business Outlook 1975-76' that a major factor in containing growth in 1975-76 was a planned program to increase plant utilization, particularly of existing exchange equipment. 
3 ) Telecom Australia has spent a good deal of effort in organising its staff resources with the objective of minimising the effects of reduced staff ceilings. In particular, it has endeavoured to ensure that the maintenance of existing services and the connection of new services are safeguarded. As mentioned in (1) above, the engineering construction program is expected to be slightly slower, in constant price terms, than for 1974-75. 
No. The reduction in borrowings was achieved by a combination of savings, deferral of building expenditure and reduced expenditure on the purchase of new motor vehicles. The reduction will not affect Telecom Australia's ability to provide service to its customers. 
It was necessary for Telecom Australia to reduce the intake of apprentices in 1 976 to meet the Goverment's desire to limit staff growth in the public sector. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Telecom Australia has spent a good deal of effort in organising its staff resources with the objective of minimising the effects of reduced staff ceilings. In particular it has endeavoured to ensure that the maintenance of existing services and the connection of new services are safeguarded. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Telecom Australia expects a growth of 4.8 per cent in telephone services, 5 per cent in local calls and 8 to 8.5 per cent in trunk line calls. 
The Commission has advised that it expects to be able to meet reasonable needs for the remainder of the year. The Commission's budget and targets have yet to be finalised for 
1976- 77. 
Education: Federal Expenditure in Batman (Question No. 665) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Australia Post recovers the full cost of providing Government services on an agency basis. Rates cover the direct and indirect costs involved including depreciation and accommodation charges. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) This principle of 'user pays' applies in general but there are certain major services such as public telegrams, coin telephones and telephone services in certain country districts which do not meet that criterion. The Telecommunications Act 1975 requires Telecom Australia to meet all expenditure, and provision for expenditure, of the Commission properly chargeable to revenue and to provide not less than 50 per cent of its capital requirements from internal sources. Not all individual services do meet these broad financial objectives because Telecom is mindful of its obligations under Section 6 ( 1 ) of the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Television- 
Nationwide-¼ hour weekly 
State of the Nation-½ hour weekly (during Parliamentary session) 
One five minute evening television News bulletin in Sydney and Melbourne. However, one additional late evening News bulletin has been programmed in Sydney on Saturdays 
Saturday afternoon sports coverage on television has been curtailed in differing degrees in all States, according to existing contracts for live coverage of sporting events 
Radio- 
Star Artist- 1 5 minutes weekly 
Piano and Me- 15 minutes weekly 
Room to Move (recorded music with compere)- 2 hours weekly. Evening repeat of Blue Hills-¼ hour 4 days per week 
Tempo of the Times- 1 hour per fortnight 
One outer metropolitan News bulletin in five states (Monday to Friday) 
My Kind of Music- 1½ hours weekly, now replaced by a similar program presentation by a staff announcer 
Kevin Johnson- Natural Friends and Music-½ hour weekly. 
Television- six single plays- 1 hour each 
Radio- Rural Youth Competition- 48 minutes 
Choral Competition- 5 hours 
Programs to be recorded by Sydney Show 
Band- 1 hour weekly 
Programs to be recorded by Adelaide Singers-½ hour weekly. 
See(l)and(2). 
(a) Services have been terminated of 185 people, made up of part-time employees, and people engaged on short-term contracts and short-term temporary engagements. 
Staff have been instructed not to exceed normal working hours, except in special circumstances. 
(a) The ABC has deferred purchasing many hundreds of single items of equipment within categories such as lighting, telecine, audio control desks, loudspeakers, video distribution, vision control, television cameras, vision monitors, video recorders, microwave links, and so on to reduce expenditure by $2,664,000 in this financial year. 
(i) Nil. (ii) Additional payments arising out of deferments are estimated at $88,070. 
The ABC has not purchased any equipment that cannot be installed or utilised. There is a backlog of installation work arising from the termination of certain installation contracts and a reduction in ABC staff effort. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) Telecom Australia has had some discussions with representatives of the telecommunications industry about possible changes in policy for the supply of small capacity PABX units. Included in these proposals is the possible reduction to 2 in the number of families of PABX units. The intention of the discussions is to explore ways and means of improving the service to customers and the issues concerned would not be affected by the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Former Members of Parliament Employed in the Public Service  (Question No. 522) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) Telecom Australia has advised that the installation of telephone services in the Oakleigh and 
Glenhuntly areas of Melbourne is generally satisfactory. Currently the average delay in providing new telephone services is from four to six weeks. There are six applicants in Oakleigh whose services cannot be provided for some months as major cabling work is involved. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet: Staff Recruitment  (Question No. 585) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
2 ) Yes: savings resulting from terminating ABC cover approximate $600 per annum. 
Yes. 
Filming of some events for inclusion in ABC news bulletins has not been possible. Negotiations to resolve the matter are proceeding. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
) It is not expected that the change will reduce the popularity of  Bellbird. 
No. 
No. 
Family Allowances (Question No. 74S) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) Telecom Australia advises the average delay is a little under two months. 
I present the following papers for the information of honourable members: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Batman Electorate is in the area served by the Telecom Business Office at Northcote. In that area the average delay between payment of fees and provision of telephone services completed during June 1976 was S weeks. Isolated cases where installations have taken up to 9 months for business subscribers and 12 months for individuals were confined to some services in new development areas. 
The long delays in development areas result from the need to undertake major Engineering works to provide cable to the appropriate exchange. 
IS 407 in the area served by the Northcote office including 5747 in the Batman Electorate. 
30 additional Field and Administrative staff have been provided since early May. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The Postal Commission has considered the matter of special postage rates for local mail and, as recently announced, has determined a special rate for local bulk mail, lodged at the post office counter for delivery from that office. Although it is not practicable to offer an exclusive rate for mail to box numbers, the new conditions will enable private residents and business people, subject to certain conditions, to post local delivery standard letters and non-standard articles at the reduced rate. 
No. 
It could have this effect, but net earnings would probably be less. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Section 117 of the  Broadcasting and Television Act  1942-1975 requires that broadcasting and television stations identify the true names of speakers and authors of political addresses and statements, in addition to identifying political parties in the case of political matter broadcast on behalf of such parties. 
There are no provisions in the Act for exemption from the requirements of Section 1 1 7. 
If such programs were broadcast, the provisions of Section 1 17 would apply, and it would be necessary to identify the speakers and the party involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following newspapers have been registered since 1 January 1975 for postal transmission as Category C publications. 
-On 20 May 1976, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission talk back session  Morning Extra  invites listeners beyond the Sydney area to ring the station reverse charge? This morning I understand that there were calls from as distant as Renmark, Forbes and Cairns. Having in mind that the ABC recently withdrew several popular programs as an economy measure when previously required by the Government to exercise restraint in spending and that further substantial staff cuts are allegedly contemplated, will the Minister take steps to establish whether the ABC can justify its action in accepting these reverse charge calls for a program of dubious merits? 
The following is in answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is true that the ABC's fifty minute radio program  Morning Extra  includes some reverse-charge telephone calls from listeners at the ABC 's expense. 

 Morning Extra is broadcast live by the ABC's regional radio stations in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia. Extracts from the program are broadcast from Tasmanian regional stations. 
The ABC considers it appropriate for its country listeners to have the opportunity from time to time to express their opinions live on ABC Radio; it regards this kind of contact as of value and interest both to the listener and to the ABC. The average cost of such calls of which there are no more than ten in any one  Morning Extra  program is about $2.00 for each two minute call. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the terms of section 63 of the Broadcasting and Television Act the ABC is prohibited from broadcasting or televising advertisements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the Postal and Telecommunications Department, Australian Broadcasting Control Board and Australian Broadcasting Commission there are no staff engaged primarily on recruitment functions. Telecom Australia employs a number of staff on recruitment activities, many of whom are not exclusively engaged in such activities and, therefore, it has been necessary to make an assessment of the time and annual salaries expended full-time on recruitment. The assessed figures are 53 man years at an annual cost of $620,000 for salaries. The position in Australia Post is similar and the assessed figures are 30 man years at an annual cost of approximately $300,000. The Overseas Telecommunications Commission currently employs 4 officers for staff recruitment, the salaries of whom amount to $45,177 per annum. 
The Postal and Telecommunications Department does not utilize the services of private employment agencies for the recruitment of staff. Neither is it the practice for related statutory authorities to engage employment agencies although during the last two financial years a few instances have occurred when their use has been necessary. 
The A.B.C.B. has obtained temporary typing assistance, through agencies, on short terms of engagement to cope with special requirements. Australia Post engaged an agency only once, since 1 July 1975, in respect to the filling of several positions in its market services area. O.T.C. , on one occasion in 1974, recruited an Assistant Programmer through a private agency. 
A.B.C.B.-$2080. O.T.C.-$825. 
The assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) is not utilized by the Postal and Telecommunications Department or the A.B.C.B. Telecom Australia, Australia Post, A.B.C. and O.T.C. make fairly regular use of the CES for which no charge is made. Australia Post also makes occasional use of the Professional Employment Office of the CES in recruiting managerial and professional staff. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 13 December 1973 there have been no occasions on which the Government Co-ordination Committee on Employment and Industrial Relations has intervened in negotiations between unions and the Commissions mentioned. However, all three Authorities maintain a liaison with the Committee on matters of mutual interest and frequently the Committee's views have been sought before management decisions have been finalised. 
(6) See answer to ( 1 ). 
The anwer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The downturn in demand for telephone services referred to was previously set out in detail in the document 'Service and Business Outlook 1975-76' which was published in August 1973 by Telecom Australia. In this document it was forecast that new service demand in 1973-76 would be 325,000 compared with the actual level of 332,391 in 1974-75. New services connected in 1975-76 were greater than the demand for new services thus permitting the backlog at the commencement of the year to be reduced. 
and (3) Generally applications for services are being met within one or two months. Telecom Australia advise that during 1975-76 the average connection time has been reduced by approximately 10 per cent. It is planned to reduce waiting times further in the current year. Staffing policies pursued by Telecom Australia are responsive to the need to maintain existing service standards and to improve the rate of connection of new services. 
Destruction of Film by Australian Broadcastion Commission (Question No. 744) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) As a culling process from the many thousands of feet of film it shoots, the ABC daily destroys film which is judged to have no future use as program or archival material. A list of material destroyed is not kept, but items of any consequence of a political, social, scientific, economic or historical nature are retained. The ABC has not destroyed films of the Petrov Royal Commission. This Royal Commission occurred prior to the opening of the ABC Television Service and the ABC has never possessed film of it shot by its own staff, although some film of it was purchased by the ABC from Cinesound-Movietone for inclusion in a documentary on  Dr H.  V. Evatt. 
Copies of this documentary are held in the ABC's film Library. 
No request for the destruction of these films has been made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The ABC does not inquire as to the political affiliations of speakers who appear on its many current affairs programs in radio and television. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
$420,000. 
$378,000. 
The costs given in ( 1 ) and (2) are based on the annual salaries of the staff employed and overhead costs apportioned on a pro-rata basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) Telecom Australia is not able to readily provide statistics individually for each of the 107 tele phone districts but has supplied in the following tables information in respect of (a) metropolitan and (b) country regions in each State. Should the honourable member have a particular district in mind, I will be pleased to obtain the desired information for that district 
The Government has 18 amendments to this Bill. I seek leave to move the amendments together. 
-I move: 
1 ) In clause 2, sub-clause ( 1 ), omit 'sub-section (2 ) ', substitute 'sub-sections (2 ) and (3 ) '. 
In clause 2, after sub-clause (2) insert the following sub-clause:- '(3) Section 3a, 12a and 14a shall be deemed to have come into operation on 1 July 1976.'. 
) After clause 3, insert the following new clause:- '3a. Section 87a of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: - '87a. Where the Minister has, under section 86, suspended or revoked a licence on or after 1 July 1 976, the licensee may apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunals for a review of the decision of the Minister to suspend or revoke the licence.'.'. 
In clause 4, paragraph (a), omit 'relating to', substitute 'for, or for the smoking of, '. 
) In clause 7, omit 'section is ', substitute 'sections are '. 
In clause 7, before section 105aa insert the following sections:- 105 aaa. In this Division- 'metropolitan broadcasting area' means an area determined by the Board under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 105AAB to be an area appropriate to be served by metropolitan broadcasting stations; 'metropolitan broadcasting station' means a commercial broadcasting station situated within a radius of 50 kilometres from the General Post Office in the capital city of a State; 'metropolitan television area' means an area determined by the Board under sub-section (2) of section 105AAB to be an area appropriate to be served by metropolitan television stations; 'metropolitan television station' means a commercial television station the principal studio of which is situated within a radius of 32 kilometres from the General Post Office in the capital city of a State. 105AAB. ( 1 ) For the purposes of this Division, the Board shall determine an area in each State as the area appropriate to be served by the metropolitan broadcasting stations in the State, being an area that includes the capital city of the State. 
For the purposes of this Division, where there are 2 or more metropolitan television stations in a State, the Board shall determine an area in the State as the area appropriate to be served by those metropolitan television stations, being an area that includes the capital city of the State. 
The Board may vary a determination under subsection (1) or (2) 
The Board shall keep copies of maps showing the boundaries of all areas determined by it under sub-sections ( 1 ) and (2) and any person may inspect, and may make a copy of, such a map. 105AAC. An application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of the making of a determination by the Board under section 105AAB 
In clause 7, after sub-section (3) insert the following sub-sections:- '(3a) In making recommendations under this section the Board shall have regard to the principle that, subject to the necessity of ensuring that the needs of the community in the area concerned are adequately served, it is desirable that a broadcasting translator station licence for the purpose of the re-transmission of programs for reception in an area that is not within a metropolitan broadcasting area should be granted for the purpose of the re-transmission of the programs of a station that is not a metropolitan broadcasting station in preference to a broadcasting translator station licence for the purpose of the re-transmission of the programs of a metropolitan broadcasting station. '(3b) The Board shall not recommend the granting of a licence for a broadcasting translator station for the purpose of the re-transmission of programs for reception in a particular area unless the Board has published in the  Gazette,  and in a newspaper circulating in the area, a notice- 
stating that it is considering the need for the grant of such a licence; and 
notifying interested persons that they may, not later than a specified date (not being earlier than 2 1 days after the date of publication of the notice in the  Gazette),  apply to the Board for, or make to the Board written objection to, the grant of such a licence, and the date so specified has passed. '(3c) If, on or before the date specified in the relevant notice under sub-section (3b)- 
2 or more applications are duly made for the grant of a broadcasting translator station licence as referred to in the notice; or 
the licensee of a commercial broadcasting station makes written objection to the grant of such a licence, the Board shall not recommend the grant of such a licence unless it has conducted an inquiry in accordance with this Act into the applications or objection. ' 
In clause 7, after section 105AA insert the following section:- ' 10SAB. ( 1 ) An application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of a decision of the Board to make a recommendation to the Minister that a licence under section 105AA be granted for a broadcasting translator station for the purpose of the retransmission of the programs of a metropolitan broadcasting station for reception in an area that is not within a metropolitan broadcasting area. '(2) Where the Board makes a decision referred to in subsection (1), the Board shall, before making the relevant recommendation to the Minister, notify, by such means as it considers appropriate, all persons who, on or before the date specified in the relevant notice under sub-section (3b) of section 105AA applied for, or made written objection to, the grant of a broadcasting translator station licence as referred to in the notice. '. 
In clause 8, omit paragraph (b), substitute the following paragraph:- '(b) by inserting after sub-section (2) the following subsections: '(2a) Where the Board is of the opinion that satisfactory reception of television programs from a commercial television station or commercial television stations is being obtained in an area, but the Board is also of the opinion that those programs do not adequately serve the interests of the community in that area by reason of the fact that they are designed to serve primarily the different interests of a community in another area, the Board may recommend that a licence be granted for a television translator station to serve the needs of the community in that firstmentioned area. '(2b) In making recommendations under this section the Board shall have regard to the principle that, subject to the necessity of ensuring that the needs of the community in the area concerned are adequately served, it is desirable that a television translator station licence for the purpose of the re-transmission of programs for reception in an area that is not within a metropolitan television area should be granted for the purpose of the re-transmission of the programs of a station that is not a metropolitan television station in preference to a television translator station licence for the purpose of the re-transmission of the programs of a metropolitan television station. 
*(2c) The Board shall not recommend the granting of a licence for a television translator station for the purpose of the re-transmission of programs for reception in a particular area unless the Board has published in the  Gazette,  and in a newspaper circulating in the area, a notice- 
stating that it is considering the need for the grant of such a licence; and 
notifying interested persons that they may, not later than a specified date (not being earlier than 2 1 days after the date of publication of the notice of the  Gazette,)  apply to the Board for, or make to the Board written objection to, the grant of such a licence, and the date so specified has passed. '(2d) If, on or before the date specified in the relevant notice under sub-section (2C)- 
2 or more applications are duly made for the grant of a television translator station licence as referred to in the notice; or 
the licensee of a commercial television station makes written objection to the grant of such a licence, the Board shall not recommend the grant of such a licence unless it has conducted an inquiry in accordance with this Act into the applications or objection, '; and". 
10) After clause 8, insert the following new clause:- '8a. After section 105b of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - ' 105ba. ( 1 ) An application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of a decision of the Board to make a recommendation to the Minister that a licence under section 105b be granted for a television translator station for the purpose of the re-transmission of the program of a metropolitan television station for reception in an area that is not within a metropolitan television area. '(2) Where the Board makes a decision referred to in subsection (1), the Board shall, before making the relevant recommendation to the Minister, notify, by such means as it considers appropriate, all persons who, on or before the date specified in the relevant notice under sub-section (2c) of section 105B, applied for, or made written objection to, the grant of a television translator station licence as referred to in the nonce'.". 
1) After clause 12, insert the following new clause:- " i 2a. After section 1 19 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted:- ' 1 19a. An application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review, of a decision of the Board under sub-section (2) of section 1 19 made on or after 1 July 1975.'." 
In clause 13, paragraph (c) (c) (ii), after "area" (second occurring), insert "from a nearby television station or television stations ' '. 
13) Clause 13, paragraph (d), after "area" insert "from a television station the normal range of which includes that area". 
14) After clause 14 insert the following new clause:- "14a. The Schedule to the  Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act  1 975 is amended by omitting Part VI. ". 
In the Schedule, clauses 1 and2,omit",87A(l)". 
16) In the Schedule, clause 4, omit- 'Sections 87a (1), -Omit 'Commonwealth Industrial (2) and (4) Court' (wherever occurring), substitute 'Australian Industrial Court'. ". substitute- 'Section 90 ( 1 ) Omit 'thirty miles', substitute '50 kilodefinition of metres'.", 'metropolitan commercial boardcasting station'; 
In the Schedule, clause 4 after the item relating to section 9 1 ab (2 ) insert- 'Section 92 ( 1 ) (c) Omit 'thirty miles', substitute '50 kilometres'.". 
Honourable members will note that the amendments provide that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board shall have regard to the principle that, subject to the necessity of ensuring that the needs of the community in the area concerned are adequately served, it is desirable that in an area that is not within the normal range of a metropolitan station a translator station licence should be granted to a non-metropolitan station. 
It will also be noted that it will be necessary for the Board to publish in the  Gazette  and a newspaper circulating in the area that it is considering the need for a licence for an area and to notify interested persons who may then apply to the Board or make written objection to the Board to the granting of such a licence. Should two or more applications or an objection be received it will be necessary for the Board to conduct a public inquiry. 
Another safeguard provides that should the Board make a recommendation that a licence be granted to a metropolitan station to serve an area that is not within the normal range of a metropolitan station, an application may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against the Board 's recommendation. 
This will have the effect that the Board's recommendation to me will become public at the same time as it is submitted to me and before I make a decision on the matter. Honourable members will also note that the normal range of a station will be as determined by the Board. Areas will be determined and published in its coverage maps. 
There will also be an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against this determination by the Board. I am sure honourable members will agree that very adequate safeguards have now been included in the Bill. The amendments also provide that in respect of a community television aerial system programs may only be received from nearby television stations. It will not be possible for the systems to transmit anything other than the programs of existing television stations. 
It has also been decided to amend clause 4 in respect of the provision to ban the advertising of cigarettes or cigarette tobacco on broadcasting and television because the Bill as previously drafted may not have made it possible for anticigarette advertising to be broadcast or televised if it was considerable desirable to do so. The opportunity has also been taken to include in the Bill amendments relating to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
This particular Act came into operation on 1 July and it will be noted that appeals may be made against a decision I may make in accordance with section 86 of the Act relating to suspension and cancellation of licences and against the Board in respect of section 1 19 of the Act whereby the Board is empowered to take action against performers, producers of programs, etc. 
May I also take this opportunity to say that I listened very carefully to the honourable members who took part in this debate from both sides of the chamber. I thank the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for his courtesy because these amendments were produced at a late hour. I accept his assurance that his colleagues in another place will scrutinise them and I am certain that they will find that the amendments will carry out the intention and the thrust of the legislation. I listened very carefully to what the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  had to say. I also had the opportunity to talk to him personally about this matter. I am aware of the problems that exist in the foothills of Adelaide and in his electorate. I commend the honourable member for taking an interest in his electorate, and I assure him that the discussions I have had with him will be carried through enthusiastically. The problems that he has raised concerning his electorate will be considered without delay and with a determination to see that they are successfully resolved. 
I was not aware until this evening of the problems in the electorate of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  but the same comments apply in respect to that area also. All Australians should be able to enjoy the facilities of the communications network which this large country enjoys. It is quite obvious, of course, that not only in the rural areas but also in the large metropolitan cities and provincial cities of Australia people are entitled to get television transmission of a high quality. That objective will be worked towards by my Department, by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, by Telecom Australia and by all those people who are interested in improving the communications network throughout this nation. I take this opportunity of informing honourable members that the inquiry into the broadcasting system is proceeding satisfactorily. We hope to have some submissions to the Cabinet within the next 4 to 6 weeks. The whole purpose and thrust of the inquiry are to improve the structure, to sort out the problems that the honourable member for Sturt has commented upon tonight and to ensure that within the constraints of the Government's expenditure we will have the most effective broadcasting system in the world available to us. 
We do not want to get into circumstances in which a translator can be used by a large metropolitan television station to the detriment of community interests, influence, integrity- call it what you like- of a local nonmetropolitan television station which has been given a licence to serve that community. 
I will have to disappoint the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  because I think it would be very unwise of me to start indicating here tonight what my reaction or my view might be about a particular radio station. There is a sensitive position in the western suburbs of Sydney. In fact I face a couple of sensitive situations. A couple of writs have already been given to me. One of them is concerned with the matter to which the honourable member referred. Could I suggest in broad terms, without responding particularly in relation to a radio station which he nominated, because I do not wish to get myself into a situation where I react in the Parliament about a particular radio station - 
-I appreciate that and I accept the honourable gentleman's reassurances. This would be a matter on which any radio station should approach the Australian 
Broadcasting Control Board. Then there would be an inquiry. If, following that inquiry, there was an unacceptable decision, the appeals tribunal system could be used. The frequency modulation aspect is one of the reasons why we are having the overall broadcasting inquiry. The Government of which the honourable member for Chifley was a supporter took a tremendous number of initiatives in the broadcasting area during its 3 years in office. Some of them were very desirable but the proliferation was such that there has to be a sorting out. There is even some doubt as to the legality of some of the licence., that have been issued. What I hope to achieve by this inquiry- I say quite genuinely that it is designed to improve the structure of broadcasting- is to see what is in the best interests of the nation as a whole and of areas in particular, and to see that when licences are given they are properly founded on a legislative base and designed to take into account the community which they serve. The answer I have given obviously cannot be satisfactory to the particular station which the honourable member mentioned. If he wants to come and see me privately about a station within his electorate or the problems of broadcasting within his electorate I shall be very happy to have a personal and frank discussion with him. 
_First of all I will answer the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I am interested to hear his view but my understanding is that it is not limited in any way and that it includes the plural sense. When the honourable member was speaking to me earlier this evening I noted his concern. In my view and the views of the Board and the Department, his fears are unfounded and the plural of the word is encompassed. I turn now to the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  The Australian Broadcasting Control Board has had the legislative authority for many years- I cannot remember how long but I know that it goes back for a long time, for many years before I came into the Parliament and maybe since the honourable member has been in the Parliament- in connection with broadcasting licences in the commercial area. 
-Yes, but it still goes back a considerable number of years. When we first brought in this Bill we sought to change the Boards authority from purely mechanical or engineering needs to community needs. If the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is concerned as to whether the Board has the competence to decide what is in the community needs I think the safeguard is contained in the amendment because it simply says that where there is need for it the Board will first of all advertise in the  Gazette  and in a newspaper circulating in the area that it is considering the need for the grant of a licence in an area, and interested persons may then apply to the Board or make written objection to the Board about the granting of a licence. If two or more applications or objections are received the Board will conduct a public inquiry. I think that that is the safeguard, so that the public can be convinced that the Board is operating for the good of the community. When a decision is made and submitted to me there are further safeguards in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I do not know whether the honourable member was here when I was speaking earlier and I referred to the publishing of coverage maps. A person will be able to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against any determination by the Board. 
I sense that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is concerned that the needs of the community are adquately and fairly reflected in the Board's decision, and that is the reason why we are bringing in these amendments. We felt that the original Bill did not cover that safeguard completely and we became very concerned least we have a situation in which large, successful, highly profitable metropolitan television stations could enter areas where we had previously given a licence for a non-metropolitan station. I think it is in everybody's interest that we have a range of stations serving the community, particularly in the provincial areas and the rural areas, and which reflect the community and safeguard it against intrusion. I cannot remember the relevant mileage but there is a delineation as to what is metropolitan and what is nonmetropolitan. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments and with an amended title. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia advises that initial studies show that capital expenditure of at least $50m would be involved in modifying existing equipment to provide for timed local calls. Importantly, the necessary modifications could take quite some years to effect bearing in mind the many other major capital works necessary to expand the network to meet traffic growth as well as to provide improved facilities and replace obsolescent equipment. 
Reliable estimates are not available. Studies made some time ago showed that the average duration of local calls in predominantly business areas was below 3 minutes and the average for calls in predominantly residential areas was above that period. However, the untimed local call system has been so long established in Australia that it is extremely difficult to estimate the effect which timing would have on residential subscribers' local calling habits and hence the additional revenue that might accrue. Studies on this and related aspects are in hand. 
NEAT Scheme (Question No. 701) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia as well as meeting current demands for new subscriber telephone services has an obligation to extend the telecommunications network to improve its services for existing subscribers. The Commission advises that the Ceduna-Cobar coaxial trunk cable project is being undertaken to: cater for the increasing trunk traffic between the Eastern States and South Australia and Western Australia and for international calls connected over the Indian Ocean satellite provide route diversity, and thus more security, for EastWest trunk traffic and international calls, and incorporate Broken Hill in the national STD network. 
and (3) The number and the percentage of the national total of deferred applications in each State as a whole and in the respective State capital cities and Canberra at 3 1 May 1 976 were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Some representations have been received concerning the charges for private mail bag services. 
Charges for private mail bag services were increased in line with other tariff increases announced in July 1975, which were introduced with the aim of covering costs and breaking even. For private bag services, the increased tariffs were effective for new services from 1 September 1975 and for existing services from 1 April 1976. 
However, in view of the trading surplus which Australia Post expects to record this financial year, the Postal Commission has decided to reduce the charges for private bag services. 
The following table shows the new charges compared with the charges applicable prior to the increases announced in 1975 and the charges applicable subsequently. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It is the official policy of the Australian Postal Commission to ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to officiate at the opening of official post offices and other Commission facilities. If the Minister is unable to attend, then the  Chairman  is invited to officiate and, in the event that the  Chairman  is unavailable, one of the remaining Commissioners is invited- the local Commissioner where this is possible. 
At each opening, the local Federal Member is invited to attend and to speak, as is a  Senator from  the other Political Party. 
Generally speaking, yes. 
Yes, the practice of the former Postmaster-General's Department has been altered. As indicated in (1) and (2), the local Member of the House of Representatives is invited to attend the opening but the ceremony is performed by the Minister or, when he is unavailable, by one of the Commissioners. This arrangement is regarded as more appropriate to the changed form of administration of the postal service and reflects the more independent charter given to the Commission by the Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Six. 

Unanderra, New South Wales. 
Forster, New South Wales. 
Gympie, Queensland. 
Warren, New South Wales. 
Shepparton, Victoria.  (0  Sunshine, Victoria. 


 Senator Mulvihill (on behalf of Postmaster-General) 
D. M. Bright (Deputy Chairman, Australian Postal Commission) 
and (d) J. J. Kennedy (Chairman, Australian Postal Commission) 
G. Slater (Commissioner, Australian Postal Commission)  (0  A. F. Spratt (Managing Director, Australian Postal 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Television Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill is to bring the scale of licence fees payable by commercial television stations back into line with that payable by commercial broadcasting stations. The same scale of fees was applicable to broadcasting and television stations from 1964 until the fees payable by broadcasting stations were increased in 1973.' At this time the then government decided that the scale for television stations licence fees should be maintained and reviewed in 1975-76 so that the financial effects could be assessed of the phasing out of cigarette and cigarette tobacco advertising, the increase in the Australian content of programs and the introduction of colour television. 
The present scale of licence fees payable by commercial television stations has not been altered since 1964. Had the scale of licence fees for both broadcasting and television stations been identical, it is estimated that an additional amount of $533,000 would have been collected in licence fees for the year 1975-76. The new scale, based on anticipated increase in gross earnings by stations, is estimated to increase 1976-77 station licence fee revenue by $624,000 to $5.524m. The new scale of fees payable from I September 1976 are set out in clause 3 of the Bill. 
There are 48 commercial television stations in operation. Honourable members might note that the adoption of the same scale for broadcasting and television stations will involve no increase in licence fees by 1 1 commercial television stations including four which were in a loss situation in 1974-75 whose gross incomes for that year were below $0.5m. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the income tax law to remove doubts about the operation of provisions that require foreign residents to pay Australian income tax on royalties derived from this country. For the purpose of these provisions royalties include payments for the supply of industrial know-how and other amounts in the general nature of royalties. 
The need for the amendments arises from a recent decision by the Victorian Supreme Court in a tax appeal brought by a Canadian company. The company received substantial payments for the use in Australia of its know-how. It claimed that these payments were not liable to Australian tax under the provisions enacted in 1968 for the specific purpose of subjecting such payments to tax. In the particular case, the Court upheld the company's claim. 
While the legal position may be further clarified by later decisions in the courts, the Government considers that there are strong reasons for putting to rest immediately the doubts that have been shown to exist. Royalties paid by Australian businesses are a charge against the profits of the businesses for tax purposes and it is fair that they should bear Australian tax in the hands of the foreign recipient. If they do not, profits earned in Australia and remitted overseas as royalties bear no Australian tax at all. This situation cannot be accepted as it enables overseas company groups to take profits from Australian activities out of the country free of tax. 
For these reasons, the Government has decided to seek amendments which will resolve the legal doubts. 
The main purpose of this Bill is, therefore, to re-express the law so as to make it clear, in relation to payments to residents of all overseas countries, that the provisions requiring payment of tax on royalties are to operate in the way intended when the 1968 amendments were enacted. The Bill technically achieves this purpose by directly defining the term 'royalties' in the Income Tax Assessment Act instead of defining it by reference to a definition in the double taxation agreement with the United Kingdom. This measure will remove any possible implication that the defined term applies only to payments made to residents of the United Kingdom. 
The Income Tax (International Agreements) Act is also being amended to eliminate any doubt that the definition in the Assessment Act has effect for the purpose of double taxation agreements in which the term 'royalties' is not defined. By a provision in those agreements, the terms that are not defined are to have the same meaning as they have in the income tax laws of the country applying the agreements. In the 8 years since the provisions now being amended were enacted, no other country that is party to an agreement with Australia has ever questioned that the law operated in that way as regards royalties. 
The Bill will apply to income in respect of which an assessment is made after 4 July 1976. That is the date on which I announced that the amendments were to be made. The amendments will not affect the determination of valid objections lodged against assessments made on or before 4 July 1976. A memorandum containing more detailed explanations of technical aspects of the Bill is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority needed to met the prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1976-77. At the same time, the borrowing authority it will provide will, together with borrowing authority expected to be available under other legislation, enable the amount of borrowing needed to finance the estimated overall Budget deficit for the financial year to be undertaken. As honourable members will be aware, for many years there has been legislation for these purposes in the legislative programs of successive governments. 
In the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that the prospective overall Budget deficit for 1976-77 is estimated to be $2,608m. Except in so far as funds are available from accumulated cash balances or other minor financing transactions, this deficit must be financed by net borrowings. Such net borrowings must, of course, be within proper authority from the Parliament. 
The overall Budget deficit is a comprehensive figure. It takes into account all relevant transactions of the 3 separate funds used to record Commonwealth receipts and outlays. These funds are the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund. The amounts which may be paid from each fund are limited to the amounts legally available to it. 
Underlying the overall deficit estimated for 1976-77 is an estimated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The current estimate of this Consolidated Revenue Fund Deficit is $l,435m. This is after allowing for the charging to Loan Fund of expenditures totalling $827m on capital grants to the States and payments to the States for housing. 
It is our intention to propose that legislation to be introduced in respect of these expenditures should, as in previous years, authorise payments to be made either from the Loan Fund or the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
Details of the current estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit are set out, for the information of honourable members, in Table 3 of Budget Paper No. 4- Estimates of Re*ceipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure. As payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund cannot exceed moneys available in it, it is necessary either to reduce payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund by charging to another part of the Commonwealth's accounts* some of the expenditures normally met from itor, alternatively, to supplement the receipts of the Fund from some other source. Appropriate legislative authority is needed for such transfers. The simplest and traditional means of providing appropriate legislative authority is a Loan Bill of the type I am now presenting. 
This Bill will authorise borrowings for defence purposes in order that defence expenditures, which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, may instead be met from the Loan Fund. The Bill authorises borrowing for defence purposes, but it does not authorise any additional defence expenditures. It will simply allow reallocations between the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loan Fund of defence expenditure to be made during the remainder of the financial year- defence expenditures which have already been authorised by Parliament in Supply Act (No. 1) 1976-77 or which will subsequently be authorised in Appropriation Acts for this financial year. In this regard I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 8 of the recently introduced Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1976-77, which makes that Bill subject to the provisions of the proposed Loan Act. 
I should also mention that, as borrowings under this legislation will be for the purpose of financing defence expenditures, those borrowings will not require approval from the Australian Loan Council. However, the Bill includes a specific limit to the amount of such borrowings that may be undertaken. I am sure that I do not have to elaborate on the point that, at this early stage, the estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit is inevitably a qualified one. The actual figure for the year will be affected by all the developments during the year which cause departures from current estimates of receipts or payments of the Fund. In setting a limit on borrowings for inclusion in the Bill these inherent uncertainties need to be recognised. The limit that has been included is $ 1 ,600m. This provides a relatively small margin over the estimated Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit of $ 1,435m. Borrowings under this proposed legislation will be undertaken within the framework of monetary policy, to which the Treasurer referred in his Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. . Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1976-77 totalling $452m. This amount represents the grant component of the Loan Council program for State governments in 1976-77 and is equal to one-third of the total program of $ 1356m agreed at the June 1976 Premiers Conference. The Bill also provides for the payment of capital grants in the first 6 months of 1977-78 up to an amount equal to one-half of the 1976-77 amount, pending passage of legislation to authorise grants in 1977-78. Payments authorised under this Bill may be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or from the Loan Fund, and appropriate borrowing authority is included. This is consistent with past practice. These grants represent a continuation of arrangements initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government in June 1 970 which provided that portion of the State governments ' Loan Council programs should take the form of interest-free non-repayable grants in lieu of what would otherwise be borrowings by the States. The effect of the grants is to relieve the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to pay, and the grants accordingly have a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial positions. The grants were introduced to help the States finance works such as schools, police buildings and the like from which debt charges are not normally recovered. The States are, however, entirely free to apply these grants as they choose and no terms or conditions are attached to them. 
Turning to the details of the Bill, clause 3 authorises the payment of grants to the States totalling $452m in 1976-77, and clause 4 authorises the Treasurer to make advance payments in the first 6 months of 1977-78 at the same annual rate as in the current financial year. The amounts payable to each State are set out in the Schedule to the Bill. Clause 5 of the Bill provides for payments to be made either from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund and clause 9 provides for the necessary appropriation of these funds. The extent to which the payments will be met from Loan Fund will depend in part on the level of Government borrowings during the year, and this cannot be precisely estimated at this point. Finally on the details of the Bill, clauses 6 and 7 authorise the Treasurer to borrow funds in the period from the commencement of the Act to the end of December 1977, up to the total of the amounts of the grants payable in 1976-77 and in the first 6 months of 1977-78. This borrowing authority will be reduced by the amount of any borrowings made before the enactment of this Bill, under the authority of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1976, which may have been used to finance grants made in the first 6 months of 1976-77. 
I turn now to the general context in which this Bill is being introduced. Claims have been made from some quarters that the States are being treated unfairly, particularly by the 5 per cent increase in 1976-77 in the State governments' Loan Council program of which the grants which are the subject of this Bill are a component. Such claims should be assessed against the following: 
This increase follows substantial increases in State Government Loan Council programs in recent years- for example, the increase in 1975- 76 was 20 percent; an increase of 18.6 per cent for 1976-77 in the Loan Council program for the States' larger local and semi-government authorities which will result in an overall increase in programs for the States and their authorities of $2 15m or 10.0 per cent; the $643.4m or 20.9 per cent increase which the States' presently estimated entitlements under the new personal income tax sharing arrangements in 1976-77 would represent over the financial assistance grants paid to the States in 1975-76; the overall increase of almost 15 per cent in 1976- 77- after adjustment for advance payments in 1975-76 of 1976-77 hospital funds and non-recurring payments for unemployment relief in 1975-76- in payments from the Commonwealth's Budget to the States and local government authorities; the fact that this increase of almost 1 5 per cent compares with an estimated increase in other Commonwealth outlays for 1976-77 of 13.8 per cent and follows a number of years where payments to the States have grown much faster than other Commonwealth outlaysincluding 1975-76 where the relevant increases were 30 per cent in payments to the States as against 17 per cent for other outlays; and the fact that, consistent with wishes expressed by the States, the emphasis of the previous Commonwealth Government on specific purpose assistance which was tied and subject to detailed controls, has been reversed with the emphasis now being placed on general purpose untied funds which the States are free to allocate as they choose according to their own priorities. 
The States must, along with the Commonwealth, play their part in the battle against inflation by restraint in their expenditures, but the overall picture I have outlined clearly shows that the States are not being asked to bear any undue share of this crucial task. In this regard the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  will be providing further information on overall Commonwealth-State financial relations when he introduces later in the session the enabling legislation for implementation of Stage 1 of the new tax sharing arrangements with the States. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The publication  Telecom 2000  is a report to the Australian Telecommunications Commission which examines and suggests possible social, economic and technical changes in Australia over the next 23 years as they may indicate trends in demand for telecommunications services, including transmission of data. 
Telecom Australia advises that the data services currently available are provided as required in nonmetropolitan as well as metropolitan areas, and this policy would apply to new data services when these are introduced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia advises that a cost of $2,400 on average is involved in adding an additional telephone service to the network in Melbourne and Sydney. 
(a) and (b) A service connection fee of $120 is payable by both metropolitan and country applicants for the installation of a service where the connection involves the provision of new lines or equipment. For the removal of a service for an existing subscriber to a new location the connection fee is reduced to $60. This is a recognition that the subscriber would have already made some contribution to service establishment costs. 
A lower connection fee also applies when an existing subscriber or a new applicant takes over an existing service on an 'in place ' basis. These fees are: 
For the provision of a service for a new applicant on an 'in place' basis except as in 'c'  -  $30. 
For the removal of an existing service on an 'in place' basis except as in 'c'  -  $15. c For the takeover of a working service on an 'in place' basis where no work is involved at the exchange (for a new applicant or an existing subscriber)  -  $10. 
In addition, applicants who are located beyond the distance for which the Commission provides line plant at its own expense are required to contribute towards line plant costs. 
in replyThe Loan Bill (No. 3) 1976 is a machinery measure. Obviously that is not recognised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  but it was recognised by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As announced by the Government in May and restated by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his 
Budget Speech, the Australian Telecommunications Commission will seek part of the funds it requires for capital investment this year from the domestic loan market. The purpose of the amendments in the Bill now before the House is to facilitate the approach by the Commission to the loan market for this purpose. In 1976-77 the Telecommunications Commission has an approved capital expenditure program of $9 10m. These funds will be spent in renewing, as appropriate, the equipment which provides almost four million services to customers connected to the telecommunications networks, in providing for the increased services required by those customers, and in connections for new customers requiring service. A capital investment of this order is necessary if the Commission is to meet the reasonable demands of the community for modern telecommunications services and our network is to be up-graded to take advantage of the latest technological developments. 
Annual borrowings of the Commission have reached a very substantial figure in terms of the Commonwealth Budget and, in the Government's view, it is appropriate that the Commission should seek a portion of these funds this year from the capital market as an alternative to direct funding from the Budget. Of the total capital investment proposed this year, the Commission will provide approximately 54 per cent from its internal sources, including provision for depreciation of assets, a budgeted trading surplus, and funds retained to meet its future liabilities for furlough payments to staff. The provision in the Budget for Commonwealth advances to the Commission of $2 15m will provide 24 per cent of its capital requirements. Proposed borrowings from the domestic loan market$200m will provide a further 22 per cent of the total capital program. The Commission will be seeking funds on the loan market in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Loan Council for semi-government authorities. It will be competing with other semi-government authorities for subscribers to its securities. 
The Commission itself is exempt from taxation under any Commonwealth, State or Territory law, but subscribers to Commission securities could be made liable to pay stamp duty under State or Territory legislation, and transfers of Commission securities would be dutiable under existing legislation in some States. Securities issued by State authorities, being exempt from such duty, could prove more attractive to some investors than Commission securities, and the financial advisers to the Commission believe that the borrowing potential of the Commission would be markedly reduced if State authorities continued to have the advantage of exemption of securities from stamp duty. 
One of the principal purposes of this Bill is to exempt transactions involving Commission securities from State stamp duty. Other clauses of the Bill would give a specific authority for the Commission to issue securities, with the Commonwealth guaranteeing the repayment of the amounts so borrowed and the payment of interest on those borrowings. Clause 1 of the Bill is the usual formal provision regarding the tide of the amending Act. Clause 2 provides that the amending Act will be deemed to come into operation on 15 September 1976, which is the date approved by the Loan Council for the Commission to open its loan. Clause 3 substitutes the words 'the Commonwealth' for the word 'Australia' in section 72 of the principal Act which concerns borrowings by the Commission. 
Sub-clause (b) inserts a new sub-section in section 72 to provide that a borrowing by the Commission may be by the issue of prescribed securities. The securities which it is intended to so prescribe would include registered stock, registered debentures and bonds, and bonds and debentures transferable by delivery. Sub-clause (c) inserts a further sub-section in section 72 to provide that, where the Commission borrows money under that section by the issue of prescribed securities, the repayment by the Commission of the amounts borrowed and the payment of interest due on such borrowings is guaranteed by the Commonwealth. 
Clause 4 substitutes the words 'the Commonwealth' for the word 'Australia' in section 80 of the principal Act which exempts the Commission from taxation. The clause further proposes the addition of a new sub-section to section 80 to provide that stamp duty or any similar tax is not payable under a Commonwealth, State or Territory law in respect of: 
a security issued by the Commission; 
the issue, redemption, transfer, sale or purchase of such a security, but excluding a transaction entered into without consideration or for an inadequate consideration; or 
c) any document executed by or on behalf of the Commission, or any transaction in relation to the borrowing of moneys by the Commission. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
See Answer to ( 1) and (2) above. 
and (5) A system of automatic message accounting would have to be installed in order to provide the details of individual trunk calls made by each subscriber. Such a program would cost many millions of dollars and would involve modification of equipment in every exchange in Australia. 
Telecom Australia's records show a very high level of acceptance of STD with multi-metering and that the incidence of metered call charge queries was higher in past years than at present. Currently slightly less than 1 per cent of accounts issued are queried in relation to metered calls. Having regard to this, and the cost of introducing automatic message accounting, the Commission does not consider that a high priority can be given to this work. 
Of interest, perhaps, are proposals in relation to international subscriber dialling. Because many overseas calls are over longer distances and can involve relatively high costs, ISD is being restricted at this stage to those subscribers who request the facility knowing that the charging will be on the basis of multi-metering. However, with the high growth rate of international traffic, longer term economics and customer convenience both require the widespread availability and acceptance of ISD. Accordingly, a program of equipment modifications to enable automatic message accounting for international calls only has been planned and the first such facility will be available in 1978. It will be extended over the following 5 years. The scope and cost of such a program is, of course, very much less than would be required in relation to automatic message accounting on calls within Australia, which is a longer term program under study in Telecom. 
-I will, of course, do as my friend the honourable member for Hotham has asked of me and convey his sentiments to  Sir Henry  Bland. I am not going to make any comment myself. I told the House what I thought about  Blue Hills  and  Bellbird,  but I am going to pull up short of making any personal comments about the program mentioned by the honourable member for Hotham. He has said that a number of people have been fascinated with it. I have not seen it. It was stopped in Queensland before it reached Queensland, and I did not take time off to watch it here. But, just through sheer chance, a number of my colleagues have seen it. Some have told me that they were disappointed with it; some have been disgusted by it; and others, frankly, have been amused or bored. I have not heard anybody say that he thought it was a production of excellence. I have yet to hear anybody say that. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission is quite independent. I can well remember everybody in this House stressing the importance of its independence.  Sir Henry  Bland is a prestigious 

 Chairman of that Commission. No doubt he would have consulted his fellow Commissioners before action was taken. I am aware that there is to be a Commission meeting in a few weeks. The Commissioners will then have the opportunity to discuss officially what no doubt they have been discussing informally and unofficially. I repeat that I will convey the honourable member's comments to the  Chairman  of the Commission, as he has asked me to do. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, together with another that I shall introduce shortly, seeks Parliament's agreement to some changes in the health insurance levy arrangements that were approved earlier this year. The essential features of the arrangements are being retained but some desirable reforms are proposed. There is to be a limit- or, as it has come to be called, a ceiling- on the amount of levy payable. This will replace the earlier arrangement under which people had to pay a premium to Medibank if they wished to set a limit on their contributions towards standard Medibank benefits. The Bill will also provide an authority to make regulations to confer exemptions from the levy. This authority will be exercised to exempt pensioners who are entitled to pensioner health benefits. Such people will thus be given an exemption comparable to that provided for repatriation beneficiaries and members of the Defence Force. It is also proposed by the 
Bill to remove the requirement under the earlier arrangements for private insurance funds to give their contributors end-of-year certificates for lodgment with income tax returns. 
As honourable members know, the levy is to be imposed at a basic rate of 2.5 per cent of taxable income. For this year- 1976-77- the levy will apply only for the last 9 months of the year, so that the effective rate will be 1.875 per cent instead of 2.5 per cent. It follows that the maximum amounts of levy payable will be reduced by one-quarter for 1976-77. We have set the maximum amount- the ceiling- on a full year basis at $300 for a taxpayer with dependants and $150 for a person who has no dependants. These amounts will be reduced for 1976-77 to $225 and $112.50 respectively. Under the original arrangements, anyone who wished to pay no more than this towards standard Medibank benefits had to pay a premium to Medibank. If the premium was paid the person was exempt from the levy. On re-examination, this arrangement was found not to be the best available. 
For example, under it people had to commit themselves at the beginning of a year, and before they knew what their income for the year would be, on whether to pay the premium or stay subject to the levy. By providing a ceiling on the levy itself, the amount of anyone's levy liability is fixed by what his or her income for the year turns out to be. Where a husband and wife are both taxpayers, it is proposed that their individual levy liabilities are not, in total, to exceed the family ceiling of $300. The husband will be assessed to levy on the basis of his own taxable income, but subject to the ceiling of $300. The levy on the wife's separate taxable income will be reduced, or eliminated, so far as necessary to ensure that her liability does not take the total liability of the couple above $300. The levy ceilings will be appropriately reduced for defence personnel and repatriation beneficiaries who have dependants who are not entitled under defence or repatriation arrangements to free medical treatment. Thus- to conclude my introductory references to the ceiling arrangements- a serviceman with a family will pay no more levy than $ 1 50. 
In introducing the levy we have been anxious to protect the position of low income earners. We have freed from levy- or have given a reduction in levy- to people whose taxable incomes are below the points where, ordinarily, income tax becomes payable. For example, people whose only income is the age pension are not called on to pay levy. As already indicated, however, levy relief for pensioners is to go further than that. Pensioners who have an entitlement to pensioner health benefits will, like people covered by repatriation and Defence Force arrangements, be freed from the levy, Age pensioners entitled to pensioner fringe benefits, as well as repatriation beneficiaries and Service personnel, will thus continue to receive the special consideration that has long been extended to them in the field of health care. 
In deciding to dispense with the requirement that private insurance funds issue levy relief certificates we accepted their point about the cost burden that this would put on some funds and, indirectly, on their contributors. People who have opted for private insurance will instead make a claim to that effect on their annual tax returns. The private funds will be expected to provide the Taxation Office with information to check such claims, and the Bills make that quite clear. There will be sanctions against people who falsely claim to be privately insured. Other parts of this Bill will result in de facto spouses being treated in the same way for levy purposes as legally married spouses. This is, of course, the case for certain income tax purposes. These are the main features of the Bills- the ceiling arrangements being dealt with in the Bill I am about to introduce and the other matters being the subject of this Bill. The Bill also makes changes of a more technical kind, which I do not think I need discuss in this introductory speech. A memorandum explaining the Bill in detail is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by Br Cass) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In introducing the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill (No. 2)1 spoke in general terms about the ceiling arrangements for the levy that are the main subject of this Bill. While the Bill, in form, repeals the Act imposing the health insurance levy for 1976-77, and enacts another in its place, the only changes of substance specify the maximum- or ceiling- amounts of levy payable in varying circumstances. I should perhaps add that, although the Bill appears to be an involved one, its provisions for application to the ordinary run of cases are quite straightforward. 
Its comparative length is due to the need to cater for combinations of less than usual situations. The explanatory memorandum being circulated with the Bill explains each clause and I think I need at this stage do no more than commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
in reply- I thank honourable members for their contributions. I apologise to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  for being unable to be here to listen to his speech. I assure him that I shall read his comments carefully and take note of them. I am not going to talk about the television industry or the broadcasting industry. As honourable members are aware, an overall inquiry is going on at the present time. The results of that will be known to me in a matter of a few weeks. I hope that I will be in a position to bring something to the Government within approximately a month and, flowing on from that, to bring something into the Parliament later this year. This BUI, of course, flows on from the Budget. It is part of the Budget. It brings licensing fees for television stations into line with fees for radio stations. I want to tell honourable members that the revenue which Will be received under this legislation will, broadly speaking, cover the costs of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The purpose of imposing fees is to ensure that the cost of administering the commercial broadcasting system is covered largely from within the industry. 
May I say to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Ml)  that I listened carefully to their comments, particularly in regard to smaller stations in country areas. I am aware of the problems. We were sensitive to them when it came to fixing these fees. In a large country like Australia it is essential to have as adequate a system possible in the smaller centres. This Government is interested in doing that. I appreciate the views put forward by those honourable members. They will be taken into account not only by me but also by others who have an administrative responsibility. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time. 
-I have received a substantial number of complaints about that segment of the  This This Day Tonight  program. I will be making some inquiries about this matter. I take the opportunity of saying that we all have a lot of pride in the Australian Broadcasting Commission and if that pride is to continue it is essential that we have not only quality but also objectivity. I am bound to say that in the matter raised by the honourable member and in one or two other matters that have come to my notice, I think there has been a diminution of objectivity in the  This Day Tonight  programs. The maintenance of proper standards is, of course, the concern of the Commission, the management and the staff generally. Team spirit alone will maintain the objectivity and the quality that we all desire. If the honourable member wishes to press me for details of that matter I will be only too happy to ascertain all the details about it from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I also take this opportunity to refer to an answer that I gave yesterday to a question by the honourable member for Hotham in which I said that no doubt the  Chairman  of the Commission had consulted his Commissioners before he took certain action. Information flowing to me reassures me that that did take place. Any  chairman  of a board or commission of any intelligence would hardly make a decision unless he had had discussions with members of the board or commission. That did occur. Certainly one would have expected  Sir Henry  Bland, a man of substantial quality and experience, to have done just that, and that is what happened. 
in reply- I have listened with interest to the debate. But for the first few sentences of the speech of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  I was able to be in the chamber to hear all of his remarks, as I did with the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who is a former Treasurer. It seems to me that the Opposition has adopted a rather curious approach to this Bill. If I recall the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide correctly, he said that it is a machinery measure or largely a machinery measure. He then went on to dispute the need for it and to ask a number of questions in relation to it. 
-I will answer them so clearly that not only the honourable member for Adelaide but also hopefully all of his colleagues behind him will understand the situation, although that is asking a lot. We have had a repetition of the facts, which are well known to everybody. They are contained in the second reading speech that I made towards the end of last month. This matter has been one of substantial interest in financial circles. An enormous amount of publicity has been given to it. The capital requirements of the Telecommunications Commission are understood. So it is not any great news to the House or to the nation to be told of the magnitude of the capital requirements of the Telecommunications Commission. There was an awareness in Australia for years that the former Postmaster-General's Department was a very large concern. It employed, I think, about half the Public Service. The capital requirements on the telecommunications side have always been of tremendous significance, particularly within the framework of public spending. 
All we have had from the Opposition has been very largely a repetition of the facts, including the fact that the Telecommunications Commission will need $9 10m this year and the fact that the Commission will borrow $2 15m of that from the Treasury, the fact that it will borrow $200m of it on the capital market and the fact that the balance will be made up from internal funding within the Commission. I have therefore been wondering, despite the questions that the honourable member for Adelaide asked, why he moved an amendment to this Bill. I will deal with that amendment a little later in my speech. I have come to the conclusion that the normally good-natured and responsible honourable member for Adelaide is getting a bit irritable. I suppose that one can understand why. He is the shadow Treasurer of Australia and, according even to  Mr Whitlam,  although I am not sure how much we can rely on his words, he will one day introduce a Labor Budget, although it will be a long time before that happens. The honourable member for Adelaide knows only too well that it is because the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  keeps on conducting himself as though he is more than the Opposition's spokesman on defence, which is a subject on which we hardly ever hear his views, and making irresponsible and extraordinary statements on the economy. I say to the honourable member for Adelaide that he would do his Party and the nation a good service if he could convince his colleague from Queensland- I make the observation that he is the only member of his Party from Queensland- to behave in a much more responsible manner. 
The Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission were set up as autonomous bodies by the previous Administration. We had some reservations about this set up. We had some qualifications about it. Nevertheless, we did not oppose the concept. The Commissions are conducting their affairs very well, despite some criticisms by some honourable members which I will deal with. 
-I listened very carefully, particularly to the honourable member for La Trobe. I will answer his comments a little later. As a broad statement of fact, the Commissions are performing their tasks very well. I therefore ask: Why should they not as large business undertakings, particularly the Telecommunications Commission, go onto the market? they have a good reputation. They have a lot of supporters throughout Australia. I more than suspect that this borrowing will be very successful. 
I turn to the amendment, which of course the Government will not accept. The first ground on which the Opposition says the Government should be condemned is as follows:  for stressing the importance of the magnitude of the deficit instead of the importance of the methods of financing the deficit. 
I have been listening to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and other Ministers recently. They have been expressing the importance of both. Nobody will dispute the importance of the financing of the deficit, but the record of the previous Administration has underlined more than ever the need to be concerned with the size of the deficit. The planned deficit of the Hayden Budget was $2,800m. Will the honourable member for Adelaide deny that that deficit looked like reaching $5, 000m for the financial year when the Liberal and National Country parties achieved office at the end of last November? 
-Do not try to misinterpret my words. As the honourable member will know, the deficit of the Hayden Budget at the end of last financial year would have been close to $5,000m. It was only the action of the present Government in reining in government expenditure that managed to reduce it to $3, 600m. The Australian Labor Party refuses to recognise that there is a relationship between government spending, deficits and inflation. That is the gulf that separates the Opposition from the Government. The Government recognises that containing and reducing the rate of inflation are the critically important issues facing the nation. The Opposition still will not face up to that simple fact. The other ground for condemning the Government as set out in the amendment is as follows:  for alleging that the deficit had been reduced by $200m when that sum was being borrowed directly by Telecom from the Australian capital market. 
Nobody alleged the deficit was being reduced by $200m; the deficit is being reduced by $200m. There has been no attempt to hide that fact. We said quite clearly that as a matter of Cabinet decision the Telecommunications Commission should seek $200m of its capital requirements from the loan market. There is no evidence other than that the full facts of the matter have been well known and understood right from the original decision. The fact is that the deficit is $200m less and the fact is that the Telecommunications 
Commission will now make a successful entry into the capital market under the terms and conditions of this Bill. 
Finally let me deal with the comments of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu).  I have long recognised since he came here that he is one of the most able representatives of a constituency that there is in the Parliament. I say to him that I recognise very clearly the matters that he raised. I am aware of the matters, as he knows. He has spoken to me. In fact, he is always in my office seeing to it that the needs and requirements of his electorate are cared for. I say to him that the connection of all telephone services in every State and in every large city, including Melbourne, has improved. Of course there are pockets where services ought to be better. Some of the matters he raised tonight, as he is aware from his dicussions with me, are getting the most careful attention. I assure the honourable member that they will be followed through to satisfaction. 
The Government rejects the amendment. It has been most regrettable that the Opposition has taken up so much time on this largely machinery matter when we could have moved on to the debate on the Appropriation Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
My understanding is that the reference by the Leader of the Opposition to the positions held by the  Chairman  is correct. As to the second part of the question, I am satisfied in every way that the matter was conducted in a proper manner. 
I have listened to the debate tonight, I think, for the best pan of 3 hours. If my memory serves me correctly we have had a debate on this subject now for about 3 months. A lot of comments and, if I might say so, some rather loose comments have been made during that particular period. I simply wish to take just a few minutes to state a couple of facts. I put it to members of the Opposition that there is an inconsistency in their approach. I wish to speak very briefly about the question of not wishing to have a levy because the original concept of the then Labor Administration, now the Opposition, was to have a levy. The purpose of the levy which this Bill introduced has to be seen in the context of budgetary responsibility. We all know that despite what the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  said there has been a degree of misuse and there has been a degree of abuse. The Government is attemptingand I believe attempting successfully in a very complex area- to try to bring some sanity and commonsense into a very important program for the Australian community. But I should really like to speak about the amendment in the Committee stage. I felt that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  spelt out the position. Let me just repeat what I said in my second reading speech: 
The Bill will also provide an authority to make regulations to confer exemptions from the levy. This authority will be exercised to exempt pensioners who are entitled to pensioner health benefits. Such people will thus be given an exemption comparable to that provided for repatriation beneficiaries and members of the Defence Force. 
I say to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  that there is no doubt about that. There is no ambiguity in that statement; the position is perfectly clear. All we are talking about tonight are technicalities. We are not talking about substance because we both agree that these people ought to be exempted. I put these questions to the Opposition: Is it a fact that there is again an inconsistency? Is it a fact that when honourable members opposite produced their Bill they did not specifically exempt these people from the Act? Is it a fact that the Bill which they introduced into the Parliament some time ago in fact had regulations and gave them a power to make regulations to confer exemptions? It seems to me that honourable members opposite ought to be saying that they are in favour of this exemption, because my understanding is that this is exactly the same as they did. They did not have specific exemption in the Bill that they introduced into the Parliament a considerable time ago. Therefore what I want to say to the Opposition is that the legislation will contain and does contain regulations to confer exemptions. The Government is committed to the conferring of those exemptions. There is no need for the amendment whatsoever. As I said, the Government does not object to the substance of the amendment but there is no point in it. As a matter of technicality there is no need for the amendment and it is therefore rejected. 
In reply -I wish to reply very briefly to the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  I have brushed aside the politicking. He is obviously under some stress and strain. I have pushed that aspect to one side. I take it that the honourable member is genuinely concerned about a possible tax problem. A question was raised about this matter during question time this morning. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has consulted the Taxation Office. I point out to the honourable member that the Treasurer has released or will release a statement on this subject this evening. It explains the position in terms which I am certain all honourable members and all members of the  community will understand. I am not going to take up any more of the time of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-I have seen reports. They are but speculation and I am not going to contribute to that speculation, nor indeed react to it. The facts are that there has been an inquiry into the broadcasting system. It has been going on now for a number of months. A report reached my hands a couple of days ago. It is a very lengthy report; I think about 600 submissions form the basis of it. I intend to study it in the next week or two and then to make a submission to the Cabinet. The Cabinet will decide on any restructuring or alteration that may or may not take place. 
I add that the report is concerned with the overall structure and the system of broadcasting. The broadcasting industry consists of a lot more than the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The ABC is a very important and integral part of the broadcasting system. Finally, I repeat what the Prime Minister has said and I have said on a number of occasions, that is, that the integrity and the independence of the ABC are not under threat, that they are not at risk. 
-I can well understand that the debates between  President  Ford and  Mr Carter  will be of enormous interest to the world, including Australia. The question of programming within the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial networks is a matter for them; but I certainly shall do all I can to encourage an acceptance of the suggestion that the honourable member makes in his question. I think that it would be a good idea and that it would be helpful to Australians generally. 
-Additional funds will be made available to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for this year. The amount has not yet been finalised because it will depend on what is needed. The amount will be determined in consultation amongst the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, myself and the Treasurer, before going to Cabinet. As the honourable member is aware ethnic radio will be part of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in a similar way to Radio Australia. The allocation of funds in subsequent Budgets will be simply a part of the allocation for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
My information is that the Australian Broadcasting Commission, prior to the question being asked yesterday, had commenced negotiations to ensure that these debates will be shown to Australians. I am further informed that without any prompting at least two of the commercial television networks are making similar arrangements. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1964 1 present the Annual Report on the Operations of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 3 1 March 1976. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to exempt companies authorised to carry on insurance business under the Insurance Act 1973 from the necessity of having to lodge deposits with the Treasurer under the Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932 and to provide for the return of deposits in appropriate cases. Until the passing of the Insurance Act 1973, the deposit provisions of the Insurance (Deposits) Act were the only protection policy owners had against the insolvency of an insurer. Deposits were held by the Treasurer to pay policy owners with claims against companies that became insolvent. However, the far more extensive and effective supervisory provisions of the Insurance Act have superseded the Insurance (Deposits) Act and, when a company has received an authority under the Insurance Act, it is no longer necessary to retain the very limited protection given previously by the deposit provisions. 
The operation of the deposits system has recently been extended by regulation until 3 1 July 1979 in order to continue the protection of policy owners of companies that have either not applied for or may be refused an authority to carry on insurance business under the Insurance Act. Companies that have not been granted an authority will still be required to maintain a deposit with the Treasurer until granted an authority or, if not granted an authority, until they have demonstrated that they have adequately discharged their commitments under policies. It is emphasised that a deposit will not be released to a company in liquidation until such time as it can be used to pay claims lodged by policy owners. 
When the Insurance Act was passed it was envisaged that the deposit requirement would be terminated after the new system of supervision of insurers was fully effective. The proposal to relieve authorised insurers from the obligation to lodge deposits is in accordance with that intention. Accordingly, the Bill will enable the deposit requirement to be continued in appropriate cases while exempting authorised insurers from its application. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I rise on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  simply to thank those who took part in this debate. I have no comments to make about the first part of the Opposition amendment. There has been plenty of opportunity to debate the Budget. The facts of life are that the Australian Labor Party in office had an opportunity of steering the Australian economy. The result is on record. The nation has had an opportunity to decide its attitude to that record. The Liberal and National Country Parties now have an opportunity. The Budget strategy is fixed and we are determined that it will proceed. We will be more than happy for the people to be the judge of our stewardship of the economy at the appropriate time. 
I take the opportunity to say one or two words about the Australian Bureau of Statistics because it is not very often that the Bureau is the matter of substantial comment as it was today. I am a bit surprised by that section of the amendment dealing with the Bureau, because if I remember correctly it was the Labor Government that established the Bureau as a statutory authority. That having been done, I am not aware that there was any follow through process. Indeed, it was left to the present Government to take the initiative and to proclaim the legislation relating to the Bureau. Of course, the responsibilities of the Australian 
Statistician are prescribed in the legislation. The Crisp committee set up by the Labor Administration to investigate the role of the Bureau reported in April 1974 that the Bureau should remain responsible to the Treasurer. The assertion that the Treasurer is compromising the independence of the Statistician is not backed by fact. The matter of expenditure restraints was raised by one or two speakers. The Bureau was treated like all other government instrumentalities and departments. There is no evidence that the Government is not giving appropriate recognition to the need for statistics. The Crisp committee recommended major re-equipment programs for the Bureau. Again for reasons best known to the Labor Administration these were not implemented; but there has been a positive decision by this Government. I therefore hope that we all give the Bureau the support it deserves. It has a tremendously significant role to play in assisting us in steering the economy. I believe it is discharging its responsibilities properly, effectively and efficiently. 
May I tell all honourable members that their comments, claims and assertions will be studied closely by the Treasurer and the Treasury. Any valuable comments will be used. Any assertions or criticisms that are not backed by fact of course quite properly will be disregarded. 
Amendment negatived. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
-I am surprised at the Leader of the Opposition addressing such a question to me because he would well know that the administration of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is in the hands of the Commission and its executive. There is no suggestion at all from this Government in any way to interfere with that. The ABC enjoys independence and integrity. That integrity will be maintained. 
-I have the report. It is now the subject of a submission by me to the Government. The Government will take the appropriate decision as to the release of the report when it has been considered. 
-I cannot give the honourable member a definite answer to each proposal that would come before the Treasurer or some that come to me in my role as the Minister assisting him. Each proposal is looked at by the Foreign Investment Review Board. Of course, some are announced and others are of a confidential nature and the confidentiality naturally is safeguarded until a public announcement is made. Therefore, I will see whether I can give more detailed information to the honourable gentleman in reply to his question. However, the policy of the Government is well known and understood. It is one in which the Board works under definite criteria. The members of that Board have had tremendous experience in finance and commerce. The criteria are designed in the national interest. The Treasurer and I, in looking at each and every proposal, ensure that the national interest is maintained. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942 1 present the annual report on the operations of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-I am aware of the report to which the honourable member has referred. The arrangement concerning costs between the Telecommunications Commission and the country stations in regard to landlines is a commercial transaction. It is not within my responsibility to arbitrate on those charges which are not basic charges under the Act. We need to keep this service available to country listeners. I suggest that the honourable member should ask country broadcasters to use whatever commercial instinct and capacity they have to get the best possible deal out of the Telecommunications Commission. 
-I have seen the report of Syntec. Every time there is a report such as this the Opposition uses it to try to downgrade the Australian economy. It has been less than 8 weeks since  Mr Lynch  presented his Budget. In that entire time the Opposition has been less than responsible. What  Mr Lynch  said in his Budget Speech are the facts. The Government's first priority is to contain and reduce the rate of inflation. That exercise has commenced with some degree of success. A responsible attitude by the Opposition and the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, now that the Party has decided his career, some wage restraint, and responsibility in industrial relations, would help to achieve the desire of the Budget. There is in the Budget a growth planned for Australia this year of about 4 per cent. We accept that some of the signs are spotty or are fragile in degree. In some areas, not all the indicators are in the wrong direction. The Treasurer has said consistently and constantly that given a chance of success, given some sense of responsibility in this Parliament and throughout the nation, the Budget strategy will give Australia economic growth and development. Not only has the Government complete faith in its Budget, but it will be shown clearly that economic growth will be restored to Australia. 
-I shall supply some information about whether it is tax deductible when I check the matter after question time. It is regrettable that the Leader of the Opposition saw fit to criticise a very magnanimous decision by a great company. I know that if a company is successful in Australia, particularly if it is a mining company, it is not acceptable by the Australian Labor Party. The decisions in the Budget were designed to get growth back into the Australian economy. If Utah or any other company enjoys the benefit, well good luck to it or to them as far as I am concerned. Finally, I should have thought that the Leader of the Opposition, as a supporter of the arts, would have welcomed a sense of public responsibility. His attitude on this matter disappoints me. 
When we look at company returns, particularly for some of the larger companies, we can have no doubt that they have had substantial increases in their profitability, but of course, in the main, despite that profitability the corporate sector still lags behind in terms of its share of the national wealth or national profit. The Government is pleased to see that a number of companies which have taken some cost-saving decisions and exercised management skills, have done well. After all, we gather 42  Vi  per cent by way of taxation into the coffers of the Commonwealth. We have to allow, of course, for the enormous impact which inflation has had upon those profits. That is the reason for the Government's decision with regard to the Mathews proposals on indexation. I hope to see an increasing number of Australian companies making increasing profits because that means increasing employment and greater development. 
-I have not seen the report to which the honourable member refers. I have done a fair bit of reading this morning but this is one matter which has not attracted my immediate attention. This is the sort of area which, unlike some people in the Parliament, I will leave to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It has responsibility to conduct its own affairs. Its sense of independence and integrity will be maintained and I expect, as would the honourable member, that the ABC will carry out its functions in a proper manner. 
-I would be very happy to give the honourable member and every other member of the Parliament any information I have. As I indicated earlier, I do not have that information. I will certainly ask the Australian Broadcasting Commission if it has such guidelines. I have been shown a newspaper report which contains some reference to the meeting yesterday. Because of the obvious interest of the House, after question time I will ask that the information be made available to me and transmit it to the honourable member. 
-I state in answer to the honourable member that there is no truth in the contention at all. 
-My responsibility under the Wireless Telegraphy Act is to carry out the duties of the Minister and the Department. When it comes to our notice that facilities are being used without a licence and being used illegally, we seek to find out where this is taking place. Instances like this, of course, create a tremendous amount of public interest. It might be noteworthy to the House that about 150 cases each year come to the Department's attention. Our suspicions were aroused that an illegal radio was being used to receive messages from and transmit messages to Timor, operating in Cox Peninsula near Darwin. Following those suspicions and information coming to us, we were able to locate that particular transmitter. The 2 people who were operating that transmitter admitted that they had been receiving and transmitting messages to and from Timor. The equipment has . been confiscated. I hope that people do not continue to flout the law because if they do, they will be subject to the processes of law. 
My concern with this matter is administering the Act which is my responsibility. That is what I did under these circumstances. The Opposition can play politics all it likes. As far as I am concerned, the provisions of the Act will be applied when anybody in any area of Australia uses a radio illegally. Therefore I assure the honourable member that these 2 gentlemen will be subject to the processes of law. That is already occurring. 
-I shall be very pleased to let the honourable member have all the details, if he so wishes, because it is a substantial contract. The Telecommunications Commission has already indicated publicly that there was a substantial requirement for a particular type of paper this year. It was put out to tender. One Australian company did tender. The price over and above what was available overseas was substantial. The matter was given due consideration. Tenders have been let. I think they were awarded to 3 or 4 overseas companies- I am not sure- but not just one overseas company is involved. 
Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
Pursuant to section 125 of the Insurance Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total expenditure of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year 1 975-76 was $ 1 40,60 1 ,32 1 . 
(a): Of the amount mentioned in part (1) above $2,536,455 was used for the purchase of overseas program material. 
(b):The total General Overhead Expenditure for 1975-76 was $27,348,874. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. The Indian Government has not given such a guarantee to any news organisation. In practice, however, the ABC correspondent has been able to report without his copy being subjected to pre-transmission censorship and he has been able to travel around India and speak to Opposition Party leaders. 
Two hundred and sixty-two. 
No. The ABC is however keeping the position under review. So far the ABC correspondent has been able to provide independent and objective reports. It should be mentioned that many major news organisations are still operating in India, including Reuters, United Press International, Associated Press, Agence France Presse and the American Broadcasting Company. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Members of the 1976 Committee are:  Mr P.  CarterChairman,  Mr J.  Tozer, MLC, Bishop B. MacDonald,  Mrs J.  Vershuer,  Mr R.  McMullan,  Mr H.  J. Gastrin,  Mr A.  Neeme,  Mr R.  A. Smith,  Dr K.  G. P. Tregonning,  Mrs E.  Underwood,  Mr G.  Burke,  Mrs D.  Waite and Professor G. Bolton. 
One member-  Mr J.  M. Berinson, resigned on 9 July 1 976. 
There is no fixed term of office. Generally members are invited to serve on the Committee for a period of three years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
No. 
Yes. 
I am not aware of any such under-curent among staff members of the Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As agent for the Australian Taxation Office, Australia Post makes available through post offices, a range of taxation forms, including Housing Loan Interest Declaration forms. The Taxation Office is responsible for assessment of the likely level of demand for the forms at individual post offices, for supply and distribution to post offices and for the replenishment of exhausted stocks on request. 
The initial quantities of Housing Loan Interest Declaration forms supplied to a number of post offices in the Sydney metropolitan area proved inadequate. Additional stocks of the form had been ordered by the Taxation Office but, unfortunately, these were not available for distribution before stocks of the form had been exhausted at several post offices. The lack of forms at some of these offices for a short period during July did occasion some complaints. 
The Taxation Office is aware of the inconvenience that the shortage of forms caused at the post offices concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not expected that there will be any charges incurred by the Postal Commission in 1976-77 which are required to be met from Consolidated Revenue under the Postal Services Act. 
The Government decided, in framing the 1976-77 Budget, that the Commission should repay advances of $3m drawn in 1975-76 and that no provision would be made in the Budget for borrowings in 1976-77 or for the partial reimbursement of losses incurred in the conveyance of registered publications. As a consequence, the Commission will meet all operating expenses and fund 100 per cent of capital expenditure in 1 976-77 from its own resources. 
This decision was taken in the light of the Commission's trading surplus for 1975-76 and was reflected in the determination of the application of that surplus which I have made under Section 79 of the Act. Reference to this determination was made in the 'Service and Business Outlook for 1976-77' which I tabled recently in the Parliament, and details will be included in the Commission 's Annual Report. 
I have not issued any directions to the Commission which, under the provisions of the Act, are required to be in writing. 
3 ) Not applicable in vie w of (2 ). 
There is an outpost radio station in the Northern Territory which is part of the communications system in that area. It is true that messages are received from East Timor. They are sent in telegram form to the addressees. Telecom Australia makes it perfectly clear that it cannot vouch for the authenticity of the messages. They are addressed to people like the Queen, the Governor-General, the Prime Minister, the late  Chairman  Mao and maybe the Leader of the Opposition. 
-We probably could not find the honourable member. He might have been out of Australia for a fair bit of the time. We do not charge for these telegrams. There is only a handful of them and it would be rather inappropriate to collect the charges from some of the addressees. We pass the messages on. If they are of use and value to the people concerned they are entitled to the value they get from them. 
The figures that the honourable member has cited are correct. The Australian Telecommunications Commission has made these new touch telephones available but at additional cost. 
-Marketing initiatives can be looked at in many ways. My understanding is that there is a very limited supply available. In the first instance they are being made available in Adelaide. Additional costs are involved in the change-over. I would expect in the future as these phones become available and become more normally used by Australians that we would not have the disparity in cost. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of members is (a) 7, (b) 7, (c) 9 and (d) 
5. 
and (3) Details of membership and appointment are provided in the attached table. 
The remuneration for each chairman and member is set out in the report of the Remuneration Tribunal 1 976. 
The whole question of the use of citizen band radio is very complex and I have asked the Department to give me a full report on it. 
-If the honourable member listens for a moment he will be better informed. An official in the Department has been working specifically on this matter. We do not want to have the same problems that are faced in other countries, particularly the United States of America. The honourable member for Sturt mentioned  Mr Wilkinson  of my Department. I am not aware of the full content of  Mr Wilkinson's  statement but I regard him as a very competent official. He is aware of the malpractice that can occur if equipment of this type is used improperly. We are looking at the matter and I hope to have a report very quickly. I think we could probably have a Green Paper on this subject so that the Parliament can have a full discussion. 
I want to thank honourable members who have contributed to the discussion on the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. We have experienced the operation of the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission- autonomous commissions- for well over 12 months now. While the coalition Government parties had qualifications and reservations about setting up the Commissions, experience with them is demonstrating that it is a system that can work well for the benefit for the Australian community. Marketing initiatives have been taken over the last 6 months. The reduction in the postage rate for bulk postage has been referred to already. We are looking, as much as possible, to reduce costs in the rural areas. Australia is a very large island continent. The communications system must necessarily be extensive and expensive and we are looking continually at possibilities for a reduction of costs. This is an across the board attitude. 
I listened carefully to the contribution of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  with regard to industrial relations. This is the key area in which there can be much improvement, where we can get improved productivity and where we can hold down prices and costs in the future. I do not want to say anything which would in any way add to the problems of the Redfern mail exchange. I would state simply that I hope common sense prevails as we move towards a particularly important time in regard to mail services throughout Australia. I also took note of the honourable member's comments about interception and they will be looked at. 
One or two speakers mentioned the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I again want to saythis is repetitive and I do not know how often I have to say it for it to sink into some minds- that the integrity and the independence of the ABC is not at risk. It is not under threat. But when we have a national broadcasting service which, after all, costs the Australian taxpayers about $ 170 m a year, if we add the total cost of the budget plus the engineering services, it is only reasonable that there be real scrutiny. I would hope that we get a greater capacity for objectivity and excellence. I think that we really expect objectivity and excellence of the ABC. The ABC can be reassured of its independence. 
There were 2 speeches tonight which were more fictional than factual. The first one by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  concerned ethnic broadcasting. He well knows that the coalition Parties are committed to the permanent funding of ethnic broadcasting throughout Australia. But we are not going to get into a system unless we are certain it will work for the benefit of all the ethnic communities throughout Australia. Unlike our predecessors, we do not go off half-cocked. We had a close look at the system. We had a far reaching inquiry. We decided- it was a joint discussion and a joint decision by my colleague, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  and I- that we believed it was in the best interests of Australians and of the ethnic communities generally if we set up a separate unit within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
It will be a separate unit in a similar way to Radio Australia. There have been 1 or 2 problems in discussing with the Commission the exact way in which the system will work. In the meantime, the funding will continue. The funds which have been made available in the period whilst we have had this trial will continue to be available. I would expect to reach agreement with the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the next few weeks. In my discussions with representatives of the ethnic communities at the end of last week, they also appreciated and accepted the sincerity and the determination of the Government to maintain a proper system. 
Another speech to which I wish to refer was the irresponsible one made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  Of course I suppose an irresponsible speech from him was not unexpected. In regard to 3XY I wish to tell him that I read the newspaper as well as he does. The matter does happen to be before the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the present time. Although the honourable member for Chifley may think it is proper to make comment on it, I do not intend to do so other than to say it is a continuing hearing. I do not think that anybody on either side of the Parliament really wants to start talking about funds that are available to political parties from broadcasting companies. I would have to acknowledge that the most successful Party to achieve funding from broadcasting would of course be the Australian Labor Party. Do I need to remind the honourable member for Chifley of the contribution of-is it $400,000 a year? 
-Is it? Well, I think it is about $400,000 from 3KZ in Victoria. Do I have to remind the Labor Party about 2K.Y and the New South Wales Labor Council and 2HD in Newcastle. I do happen to know in quite substantial detail the contribution by 4KQ in Queensland. What I want to say to the honourable member for Chifley is that when he raises these issues he has to accept that he is on very slender ground. With regard to this other hearing, I think it is a matter for the Broadcasting Control Board. It is an indepenent authority and it will come to the right decision in accordance with its responsibilities under the Act. 
One or 2 comments have also been made about the Green report on the broadcasting system. I received a copy of that report about a week or two ago. The report is now in the hands of the Ministry. There is a submission from me to the Government about the structure of the broadcasting system. I expect a decision from the Government concerning that in the relatively near future. It will be in the interests of the broadcasting system if we have a very close look at it. A lot of initiatives have been taken in recent years and the relationship between the various bodies that constitute the broadcasting systemthe public, the commercial and the national systemneed to be looked at. They have been looked at. The Government will arrive at a decision before long and when it has done so, the report will be made available. 
Finally, I should like to thank honourable members for their contributions to this discussion on the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunication Department. The various points that have been raised by honourable members will be closely looked at by officials of the Department and myself. Where necessary, answers will be given to any matters raised. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $54,6 1 7,000. 
-I am well aware that the local member shares the frustration caused by the lack of television viewing facilities in some parts of Canberra because he has mentioned it to me on a number of occasions. He is aware that this matter is under consideration by my department. He would be aware also that an approach has been made by a commercial institution for an agreement to be reached with the department to facilitate the erection of a translator on Mount Taylor. These matters are under review. I am concerned, as the Government is concerned, about giving Australians everywhere the best possible television viewing facilities. Consideration of this matter will be continued with a view to finding a satisfactory solution. 
My instinctive reaction to the request by the honourable member for Denison is, of course, to try to be helpful. But that would only be consistent with the Government's overall attitude with regard to Tasmania. No government has done more to assist Tasmania than has the Government led by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. The Government's action on freight equalisation alone demonstrates its genuine attitude. Of course, the specific request made by the honourable member would need to be the subject of some discussion between the Telecommunications Commission and me. It is not a matter on which I could reach an arbitrary decision. I am concerned about the costs of manufacturers in Tasmania. They have a problem of isolation which is not found in many other parts of Australia. The matter will be looked at consistent, of course, with the Telecommunications Commission carrying out its financial responsibility. 
The inquiry into the broadcasting system has no relationship at all to the problem that the honourable member mentioned. There is a particular matter with regard to the radio licence for the Wollongong area. This is well known to people in the previous Administration as well as to me. That matter is the subject of a writ; I do not intend to say any more about that. The report of the broadcasting inquiry has been made available to me. I have made recommendations to the Government. The Government will soon consider those recommendations and when a decision is made it will be announced. 
The Government is encouraged by the reaction to the 40 per cent investment allowance which, of course, is one of the most generous investment allowances ever offered in the world. It was designed to get productivity and growth into the economy. People will react and use the allowance as they sense the forces of the market place. We are encouraged when we see the figures, particularly over the last few months. There is now a growing acceptability by business people of the fact that there is reason to have confidence. They know that if they have confidence and invest, there are very real tax savings to be made. That is the purpose of the investment allowance. We expect it to be used increasingly in the future. 
-I am aware of the campaign that has involved an insurance company which has an association with David Jones Pty Ltd. I have no reason to believe that any of the activities would conflict with the Life Insurance Act. I listened very carefully to the honourable member's comments. If there are specific matters that he has raised in his question or if he wishes to put specific matters to me, I will make certain that the matter is investigated by the Insurance Commissioner. I give him my assurance that I will look at the information contained in his question. If he has other information and I believe that it is proper, it will go to the Insurance Commissioner for investigation. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee appointed to consider the transfer arrangements involved in the new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Government employees which came into operation on 1 July 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Persons under contract have included in their contracts conditions of the ABC Staff Rules as applicable to the nature of the employment and as negotiated. 
2 ) The relevant provision in the Staff Rules, Rules 1 6 and 17, which read: 
'Except with the express permission of the General Manager an officer or employee shall not use, otherwise than in the discharge of his official duties, as an officer or employee of the Commission, any information gained by or conveyed to him through his connection with the Commission. ' 
'An officer or employee, shall not except in the course of his official duty, or with the written approval of the General Manager, give information directly or indirectly, concerning the business of the Commission or any other matter of which he has knowledge officially.' are based on similar provisions in the Public Service Regulations, Regulations 34 and 35. 
The ABC Staff Rules were originally drawn up by the Parliamentary Draftsmen of the Attorney-General's Department and were approved by Parliament as Statutory Rules. 
The Rules have, since 1960 onwards, had the approval of the Public Service Board in terms of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 as amended. 
Since 1 974 the practice under ABC General Orders ( 1 3 / J ) has followed the practice under Public Service General Orders (Section 14-M), so as to minimise restraints on public comment by officers and employees. 
and (4) The original variant contract provision was drawn by the  Deputy  Commonwealth Crown Solicitor. 

 Mr Richard Carleton has and had no contract with the ABC since December 1970. 
The ABC from 14 December 1970 until 31 July 1976 engaged a company, Gallery Research Pty Ltd, to supply  Mr Carleton  's services. 

 Mr Carleton signed an attachment to that contract designed by the present Solicitor General, when a Member of the New South Wales Bar, adopting the provisions of the company 's contract. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although statistics are kept and have been provided concerning appearances on ABC Current Affairs programs I am advised by the ABC that there are no such statistics available on times used in news reports of announcements from members of the Government or the Opposition. To obtain these statistics would involve considerable cost which in view of their limited finances the Australian Broadcasting Commission cannot justify. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board is, at present, conducting an engineering survey into television reception on the Eyre Peninsula. 
It will be appreciated that until the information gained from the survey has been processed it is not possible to indicate what recommendations might be made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Sir Henry  Bland is  Deputy Chairman  of Blue Circle Southern Cement Ltd; and a Director of Australian Mining and Smelting Ltd, Tubemakers of Australia Ltd, P. Rowe Pty Ltd, and Associated National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
As  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting commission,  Sir Henry  Bland is obliged to declare financial interests only in terms of Section 38 of the Broadcasting and Television Act, when occasion demands.  Sir Henry  did however make a blanket declaration to the Commission of his Directorships before he took up his appointment as  Chairman. 
-I assure the honourable member for Moore that I had discussions with the Treasurer before he left for overseas. This matter has been resolved and legislation will be introduced in the Parliament this session. It is recognised by the Government that this assistance is needed. I do not want to be specific about taxation matters because the Commissioner of Taxation is responsible for administering the Income Tax Act. However, my understanding is that a reasonable time will be given after the enactment of the legislation to people who want to use the scheme for their 1975-76 income year. As regards the detail relating to declared drought areas, I will give the honourable member a considerable reply. We recognise that assistance is needed and it will be given. 
The report in the  Age  referred to by the honourable member for McMillan is misleading. It is clearly known and understood by Australians that there have been substantial increases in the funds made available to local governments throughout Australia. If we look at the total payments for 1976-77 we see that they total $194m as against $165m for the previous year. This is an increase of 18 per cent, excluding, of course, the temporary schemes such as the Regional Employment and Development scheme. It is, however, important to recognise that within that general increase the untied grants have increased by up to 75 per cent to $140m. These are, of course, of enormous benefit to that sphere of government. 
in reply- Let me just briefly reply to my colleague, the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  who has taken a very real interest in this important legislation. I do not want to make any comment upon retrospectivity but I shall, however, check to ascertain whether it does apply and shall let the honourable member for Higgins know. 
Generally, in discussions the question of royalties has been raised with negotiators in the other countries. What the honourable member for Higgins has said is perfectly correct. Other countries not only have accepted Australia's right to make the 1968 royalty amendments but also have stated without qualification that they were satisfied that the amendments were effective of their intended purpose in relation to the imposition of tax by Australia. The representatives of the other countries have made no criticism of our adoption of the statutory source rules. Moreover, they have indicated that it could be expected that credit would be allowed for the Australian tax against Canadian and United States tax payable on the royalties. I just wanted to take the opportunity to reassure the honourable member for Higgins on that matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Green report has been available to me, I think for about a month. It does look at the overall structure of the broadcasting system. It is a large report. It will need to be considered. That has occurred and I would expect to be able to table the report for the benefit of members of Parliament within the next day or two. Flowing on from that I am sure that there will be valuable debates in the Parliament about the report itself and, more importantly, about decisions which flow from the report. 
The Green report is concerned mainly with the structure of broadcasting. The question of standards will flow subsequently from the Green report. 
Pursuant to section 102 of the Postal Services Act1975 I present the annual report of the Australian Postal Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
On behalf of the Government I thank those who have taken part in this debate. Regrettably I was unable to be present to hear the speeches of a number of honourable members. The Bill follows the commitment of the Government in its policy speech and reflects the attitude of the Government towards a general reduction in all forms of taxation, particularly estate duties generally. The decision taken in this respect will be of assistance to a number of people. We all know that this form of taxation comes about at a time when there are substantial personal stresses and strains and that it creates problems which all of us would seek to decrease and diminish if not completely to avoid. The Government has indicated its concern in this respect, particularly insofar as the effect upon primary producers is concerned. 
I believe that this is a step in the right direction and that it is one which governments in the future should seek to improve upon. I do not agree with every decision of the Queensland Government, but its decision to abolish death duties in that State effective from 1 January next year is one which has been approved by not just the Queensland community but all sections of the Australian community. The comments which have been made by the honourable members during the course of this debate will be drawn to the attention of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  No doubt the views expressed will be considered by him. I will see that any of the matters raised which require comment from him are attended to. 
-I am well aware of the impact that advertising has upon the community and there is no doubt that the impact of television advertising is greater than that of other forms. This Government did follow the decision reached by the previous Administration about the advertising of tobacco and tobacco products. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board sets standards for advertising for the commercial broadcasting system. Those standards are acknowledged and I am not aware that there has been any infringement of them. Of course, we look to the industry to act responsibly. I would accept that if it acted irresponsibly the result could and would be damaging. I would be glad if the honourable member for Griffith brought to my notice any particular advertising material which he believes could be damaging in any way. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My reply to Question No. 1083 was published in the  Hansard  of 20 October 1976. 
I regret that I will have to disappoint the Leader of the Opposition. I will not be tabling the report today. The Government wanted to give very careful consideration to this report. That is the way we arrive at decisions. I assure the Leader of the Opposition, however, that I will be tabling the report after question time on Tuesday. 
-I am not aware of the position. I take it that the honourable member means the Australian Broadcasting Commission has made a decision not to print the Boyer lectures. 
-IT the honourable member does not know who is responsible for the decision, I want him to know that I am not aware of the decision. I should imagine that it would be a decision that the ABC would make. The Government does not interfere in its decisions. However, if it has been the practice to print the lectures I would be very happy to make inquiries of the Commission and to inform the honourable member the reason for the decision. 
It is difficult for the Government to regard this measure with any great amount of respect. If brought into effect it would have significant repercussions on many people employed in the communications industry. I find it hard to believe that any responsible member of the national Parliament would want to introduce such new concepts which would have the effect of contributing to employment instability in the present economic climate. The Government is pledged to restore and maintain stability. For too long the people of Australia suffered the effects of the decisions of the Labor Government and from poor administration arising from many hasty, ill thought through policies put into operation over 3 years and designed to pander only to narrow interests. 
This Bill is poorly conceived and typical of the type of half-baked policies which the people of Australia had to endure during the term of office of the Labor Government. An example of the situation which we encountered on returning to government was the way the broadcasting industry had been allowed to develop- if develop is the right word- over 3 years of Labor Government. Some of the development of the broadcasting system was and is on a dubious legal basis. Because of the problems this unstructured and unplanned development had posed it was necessary to have a close look at the fundamental basis on which broadcasting exists in Australia. Accordingly, the Government directed me to arrange an inquiry into the Austraiian broadcasting system with particular regard to the machinery and procedures for the control, planning, licensing, regulation, funding and administration of the system. I can now say that following the inquiry initiated by the Government, Australians will be able to see why it is necessary for broadcasting to develop on a much more planned and balanced basis. The Government is now taking steps to give effect to some of the conclusions reached by that inquiry. 
While I recognise that the Bill before the House may have some superficial appeal to some people, I have to ask: What real benefits are expected to accrue from it? I would have expected that a Bill designed to achieve the ends suggested, so broad in its effect on the communications industry in Australia, would have the support of the Party to which the honourable member belongs. But I am not certain whether this is the case. Section 25 of the 1975 Labor Party Platform states: 
Monopoly of mass communications resources will be resisted and Labor will oppose a limitation on the ownership of radio and television services by newspaper interests. 
The present position is that there is no monopoly of mass communication resources and there is a limitation on the ownership of radio and television services by newspaper interests. It seems that the present provisions limiting ownership and control of radio and television stations accord with stated Labor Party policy. If this were not the case, why did the Labor Government take no action regarding this matter when it had the opportunity? After all, it was in government for 3 years. The reason could only be that the Labor Government was satisfied that the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act were adequate in this regard. 
Let us consider some details of precisely to what extent newspaper companies control and own radio and television stations. Section 90C of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 provides that a person shall not have a prescribed interest in licences for- 
more than one metropolitan station in any State; 
more than 4 metropolitan stations; 
more than 4 stations in any one State; or 
more than 8 stations. 
A prescribed interest is denned in section 90 (2) as a shareholding of voting interest in excess of 1 5 per cent in a licensee company held directly or indirectly. At 30 June 1976 newspaper companies held a prescribed interest in 29 commercial radio stations out of a total of 1 20. 
So far as television is concerned, section 92 of the Broadcasting and Television Act provides that a person shall not have a prescribed interest in licences for- 
three or more stations; 
two or more stations in a Territory; or 
two or more stations in a State and within a radius of 30 miles of the General Post Office in the capital city of that State. 
A person may continue to hold excess prescribed interests if these interests were held prior to 17 December 1964, which was the date from which the amending legislation became effective. However, such excess interests may not be increased and such persons may not acquire prescribed interests in further licences. A prescribed interest is denned in section 91 (2) as a shareholding, voting or financial interest in excess of 5 per cent in a licensee company held directly or indirectly. At 30 June 1976 newspaper companies held a prescribed interest in 23 commercial television stations out of a total of 48. 
It should be noted that these figures relate to all newspaper companies, large and small, and that the figures I have just given do not show the complete situation. The actual number of radio stations in Australia at 30 June 1 976 was 224 and the number of television stations was 132. This, of course, includes the commercial, national and public broadcasting stations. It can be seen, therefore, looking at the industry as a whole, that newspaper companies hold a prescribed interest in 12.5 per cent of radio stations and 1 7 per cent of television stations. 
I believe I am correct in saying that all political parties represented in this House would agree that diversity of opinion is an essential prerequisite of a democratic society. This concept is enshrined in our support for freedom of speech. The way in which the Government and the Opposition differ is the best way in which a diversity of opinion can be achieved. If the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  subscribes to the principle of freedom of speech, why is he bringing forward a Bill designed to exclude certain sections and interest groups in the community from their democratic right to have access to one particular form of media outlet? This, of course, is the effect of the honourable member's Bill. In other words, if the honourable member subscibes to the concept of free speech, the intention of this Bill is illogical. 
It can be argued that broadcasting is a special case as it is a crucial means of influencing public opinion and is different from other means of influencing public opinion. Let us examine these propositions. Surveys have shown that the broadcasting media are trusted more than the printed media by Australians. It has been shown conclusively that the media generally do not make public opinion. The media cannot dictate what people think but, of course, they do influence what people think about. The second proposition is that broadcasting is different from other means of influencing public opinion. This is true and it is precisely for this reason that successive governments of different political complexion have legislated to restrict control and ownership of radio and television stations. 
Let me now put forward some points which show that the exclusion of newspaper companies from the radio and television industry would not have the result desired by the honourable member. This action would not guarantee any greater degree of diversity of opinion for the following reasons: Firstly, changes in the ownership of outlets within the commercial broadcasting sector will not greatly affect the substance of the output of that sector. The commercial broadcasting sector is characterised by popular programming that is aimed at mass audiences. This is necessarily so where the output is, to some extent, determined by the size of the audiences that can be reached for advertising purposes. 
Secondly, there is no authorative data to prove that changes in ownership will automatically bring about changes in editorial policy in the communications media. In fact, the Australian experience is generally that editorial policy in the communications media often differs substantially from the policies or attitudes of the ownership group. Indeed, it can be shown in examples of newspaper chains in Australia where the editorial policy of different newspapers differs to a significant degree. Thirdly, exclusion would not increase the level of community participation in commercial broadcasting. By its very nature, commercial broadcasting must derive its revenue from advertising aimed at a mass market, whereas broadcasting involving substantial community participation is generally intended for minority or special interest audiences. The revenue from such programming does not produce sufficient revenue for viable commercial broadcasting. 
As I mentioned earlier, exclusion would severely damage the Australian newspaper industry. It is generally recognised throughout the Western world that newspapers are the most limited of the communications media in regard to profit potential and the general consensus is that newspaper proprietors must supplement their newspaper activities with other related enterprises. The exclusion of newspaper proprietors from radio or television holdings could do substantial damage to the viability of our newspaper industry. 
The honourable member's Bill can also be shown to be impractical because, were the Government to legislate to require newspaper proprietors to divest themselves of or be excluded from holdings in radio or television stations, it would not be difficult for such companies to alter their corporate structure so that they became, in the legal sense, radio or television station proprietors with newspaper interests. In such a situation, the power of the Federal Government to legislate on matters regarding newspapers, where radio or television station proprietors with newspaper holdings were concerned, would be the subject of much debate. The power to legislate regarding newspapers is, after all, a State power and not a federal one. It is not even certain that the High Court would uphold the validity of a law preventing newspaper investment in radio and television companies. Furthermore, the Broadcasting and Television Act provides stringent ownership and control requirements for radio and television stations and there are remedies if these provisions are breached. In addition, if section 46(1) of the Trade Practices Act, which relates to monopoly control of markets, or section 50 ( 1 ) of the Trade Practices Act, which relates to mergers that have reduced competition, are contravened the public or the Trade Practices Commission has recourse through section 80 of that Act to seek an injunction. 
Rather than detract from the role of newspaper companies, I conclude by paying a tribute to the historical role played by newspaper companies in the development of radio and television in Australia. This development would have been greatly hindered had it not been for the investments in broadcasting by newspaper companies. These companies have provided finance and expertise necessary quickly and efficiently to assist in developing the radio and television industry throughout the nation. 
by leave- I wish to advise the House of major initiatives that have been approved by the Government concerning the administration of the Australian broadcasting system. A new structure is to be set up that will allow a much greater public and industry participation in broadcasting planning and development. One of the initiatives is to make licensing the sole responsibility of a new independent statutory authority known as the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Tribunal will have quasi-judicial powers over the issue, renewal and revocation of licences for commercial and public broadcasters, and the authority to hold public inquiries on broadcasting issues. It will have from 3 to 5 full time members and 6 associate members. One of the first inquiries of the Tribunal will concern the matter of self regulation of Australian broadcasting. I emphasise that the matter of self regulation will be decided only after full public discussion and debate. 
Under the new arrangements, broadcasting planning will be undertaken by my Department, and I will appoint a broadcasting council made up of national, commercial and public broadcasters which will be involved in planning proposals prepared by the Department. The council will consist of 9 part time councillors. I would stress here that the planning function of my Department will not involve it in the setting of programming standards or in influencing the programming output of the various sectors of the broadcasting system. 
At the same time, the independence and integrity of the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be maintained. The services provided by the ABC will be subject to a periodic review by an independent public inquiry, with the first such inquiry being undertaken in 1980. The composition of the Commission will continue to be 9 commissioners, but the present legislation will be amended to provide that the Commissioners represent each of the 6 States. And that at least 2 of the 9 Commissioners be women. The appointments to the newly constituted Commission will be announced later. The length of the periods of appointment will be staggered to avoid retirement of a number of Commissioners at the same time. 
The government has also decided that while the ABC continues entrepreneurial activities, particularly in relation to orchestras, the real cost of these activities should be reflected and reported by the Commission in its annual reports. The Government also believes that the Australian Broadcasting. Commission should consider setting up formal consultative machinery with a view to achieving the greatest degree of staff management co-operation. 
Under the new arrangements, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will be disbanded. The rights and privileges of staff affected will be protected and there will be consultations with the Public Service Board and the staff associations concerned. 
These decisions follow the report of the inquiry into broadcasting conducted by the Department and headed by  Mr F.  J. Green. The report will be released next week. I wish to make it clear that the inquiry was concerned with the structure of the broadcasting system- not with program content or related issues. It is intended that legislation to implement these initial decisions will be introduced during the present sitting of the Parliament. The Government is still considering other important recommendations of the Green report. These include matters relating to frequency modulation broadcasting, the operations of Radio Australia and the rationalisation of the Government 's total broadcast engineering resources. 
In conclusion, may I state that this proposed restructuring will substantially reduce the opportunity for political pressures on broadcasting operations. It will be more economic, efficient and in keeping with today's conditions and foreseeable future developments. 

 - Mr Chairman, I have amendments relating to clause 4, which reads: 
Where- 
the principal function of a body established by a law of a State is the making of recommendations to the Government of the State with respect to the provision of financial assistance to local governing bodies in the State; and 
the Minister is satisfied that- 
the membership of the body includes at least one person who is or has been associated with local government in the State, whether as a member of a local governing body or otherwise; 
hearings of the body are held in public; 
submissions to the body may be made by, or by associations of, local governing bodies in the State; and 
copies of reports and recommendations of the body will be furnished to the Prime Minister and, after being so furnished, the reports and recommendations will be made public, the Minister may, by notice published in the  Gazette,  declare the body to be the Local Government Grants Commission of the State for the purposes of this Act. 
I move: 
In paragraph (b) (ii), after 'body', insert 'in connexion with matters relating to the making of recommendations by the body with respect to the provision of financial assistance to local governing bodies in the State out of moneys to be paid to the State by the Commonwealth under this Act '. 
In paragraph (b) (iii), after 'body', insert 'in connexion with such matters' 
In paragraph (b) (iv), after 'body', insert 'with respect to such matters . 
I should like to make a general comment, first of all, about the purpose of the amendments.  (Quorum formed.)  The purpose of the amendments is to clarify the effect of certain provisions of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill. The amendments have been introduced following comments which the Government received from State Premiers concerning the Bill. The Government has approached this matter in a co-operative way and is satisfied that the Premiers have raised some valid points justifying a positive response. In this connection, I should point out that the Bill was introduced in a week prior to the parliamentary recess for the very purpose of giving the Premiers and others full scope to examine the Bills and to comment. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is writing today to the Premiers to inform them of the Government's proposals in response to their comments on the 2 Bills. 
I should also like to take this opportunity to comment on the representations of the Premier of South Australia, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  concerning the treatment of those unincorporated areas in South Australia that may be incorporated in future years. The basis of the distribution adopted in the Bill makes no allowance for unincorporated areas. Although the Bill provides for review of each State's percentage allocation of assistance to be carried out prior to 30 June 1981, it makes no specific provision for adjustments if unincorporated areas are incorporated. However, I wish to assure the Committee, and particularly the honourable members for Sturt and Wakefield, that if the South Australian Government were to decide to take action to incorporate those areas which are at present unincorporated there would be no insurmountable problems to carrying out a review in due course of the present distribution with a view to taking that fact into account. 
Specifically, the amendments proposed to clause 4 (b), sub-paragraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the Bill, make it clear that at public hearings the opportunity for submissions to be made by local governing bodies and the publication of reports of the local government grants commissions would be required only when consideration is being given to the distribution of Commonwealth funds. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
I have 3 amendments to clause 6 which reads in part: 
1 ) The amount to which a State is entitled under section 3 in respect of a year is not payable unless and until- 
the amount has been allocated amongst local governing bodies in the State in accordance with this section; and 
prior to particulars of the allocation being made public, the Minister has been informed of those particulars and has informed the Treasurer of the State that he is satisfied that the allocation has been made in accordance with this section, but, upon the Minister so informing the Treasurer of the State, the whole of the amount is, subject to sub-section (3), payable to the State. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1) (b), after 'public', insert '(except in the case of particulars made public before the commencement of this Act)'. 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) (b), omit 'has informed the Treasurer of the State that he is satisfied', substitute 'has also been informed in writing by the Minister of the State who for the time being is responsible for the administration of the law of the State establishing the Local Government Grants Commission of the State '. 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit ', upon the Minister so informing the Treasurer of the State,', substitute ', upon the Minister being so informed, '. 
I move these amendments because in relation to the Bill there has been a misunderstanding by some of the States which feel that there is a desire, by the Government to have an ability to veto decisions. This was not the intent of the Government and, as I said earlier, the whole purpose of having some time elapse between discussions and the presentation of these Bills was to allow a response from the Premiers and interested parties. Having had those responses we bring forward these amendments which seek to make it clear that the Commonwealth has no wish to exercise a power of veto over the distribution of local government assistance recommended by the States ' local government grants commissions. 
I want to take a moment or two longer to say to members of the Opposition that with the passing of these amendments we will have a Bill which is acceptable to the State governments. In the future it will enable the third sphere of government, the local authorities, to get an increasing share of tax revenue. From my own experience local authorities welcome the initiative of the Federal Government. This is what they have been asking for for years. They will now benefit from it and I am sure that as we move along, if other matters which require adjustment come to our notice we will be only too pleased to work in co-operation with our colleagues in the local government sphere to see that the legislation works to the benefit not only of the authorities themselves but also, and more importantly, of the millions of Australians who live within the multitude of local authorities. I commend the amendments to a speedy passage by the Committee. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the structure of the Australian broadcasting system and associated matters. 
This, of course, is a very important and sensitive problem. What the honourable member for Farrer said with regard to court proceedings is perfectly true. An injunction has been issued. I do not want to say anything here, or anywhere else for that matter, that will aggravate this position because one would hope that sufficient common sense would be displayed and that we could solve this matter rather than inflame it into something of greater proportions. 
Let me say that I deplore the action of members of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union. I would expect them to have regard to the decisions of the court. I would hope that senior office bearers of that union could bring their influence to bear for the exercise of common sense. It is quite improper for people to use their power to single out one particular enterprise in Australia simply because they want to help another union that is in dispute with that enterprise. 
I would like the House to know that, despite the fact that I have not made a number of public statements, I have been keeping in close touch with the Australian Postal Commission, with the company concerned and with my colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street.  There is to be another meeting tomorrow morning. I would hope that common sense will prevail. There is, of course, a limit to anyone's patience. 
The Green report makes certain recommendations. I stress - 
-If the little chatterbox will be quiet for a minute or two he will be better informed. I make the point to the Leader of the Opposition that that is a report; it is not a decision of government The Government has taken no decision whatsoever. We have the Waller report. I have asked my Department to consider this matter in consultation with other departments. I hope that we can bring something to the Parliament in the fairly near future. 
Pursuant to section 99 of the Telecommunications Act 1975, I present the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
I welcome this debate because it gives me an opportunity to acquaint the House with a few facts. Far too much fiction has been made available to members of the Parliament and to the Australian community. We have just listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  He spent a lot of his time referring to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Green report is a report on broadcasting and not on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is just not a jumble of specific recommendations. It is founded on principles. We will not have a sensible discussion of the recommendations it makes unless we recognise and debate those principles. Firstly, it is basic to the whole report that the inquiry sought to maximise public participation in broadcasting. It asked: 
How the people of Australia can best participate in and achieve a satisfactory degree of collective control over broadcasting, on the basis that such participation is seen as a means of preserving and strengthening the social, economic and political fabric of Australia. 
That is on the first page of the report. Secondly, the report distinguishes between the two major elements of any broadcasting system which are often confused: First of all the structure of the control and operating components of the system; and secondly the programs which constitute the output of the system. 
The report points out that the structure of a system and its development are properly a matter for the Government because they are related to its overall communications policy and a need for Government management of the radio frequency spectrum. It goes on to say that the regulation and administration of programming is a totally different matter which should be seen to be removed from the direct influence of government. Let me stress this point because it is the basic distinction made by the report, a basic distinction which members of the Opposition persistently ignore despite the clear injunction of the report. The Government is and should be involved in shaping the structure of the system. It is not and it should not be involved in dictating the content of programs. The Government accepts this and unless the Opposition is able to demonstrate this principle has been breached there is simply no case to answer. 
Let us forget the Press and other speculation on the report and the emotion which seems to have arisen because of this conjecture and give the report, as it actually is, proper consideration. Let us ignore the usual conflict within the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition has been talking take-over of broadcasting 3 days after his own former Media Minister, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  told the House that he had made basically the same proposals only a few months ago. During its recent term of office the Labor Party took no initiatives to reduce political influence in broadcasting. The honourable member for Maribyrnong did not remove the Minister's control over licences. He did not surrender any powers. Yet he now seeks to claim credit for good intentions, for circulating similar proposals months after being removed from office. We are reducing political influence in broadcasting. We are replacing it with public and industry participation. Statements to the contrary are nonsense. 
The Leader of the Opposition talks of sinister activities. But they are sinister only to him. He cannot or will not recognise fully that the Green report marks a great advance in the development of broadcasting in this country.  His  own former Minister for the Media, the man he chose to exercise responsibility for broadcasting, is hamstrung by an honest recognition that the steps we are taking as a result of the report are the steps that any rational Administration would take. In fact, they are the steps that he would now like to take. Let me turn to deal with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Commission's own submission to the inquiry supported the concept that the national service had a responsibility to the public and therefore to the Parliament in the same way as the commercial and public sectors have such a responsibility. To provide for the periodic reviews which the Government has approved will do nothing more than allow a regular forum for those critical of the performance of the ABC, and those supporting it, to put their case in public. This is the practice in Great Britain where the British Broadcasting Commission at this very time is undergoing such a review. Is anyone here seriously suggesting that the BBC therefore is not independent? Would anyone suggest that the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, which is regularly reviewed at a series of public hearings, is not independent? The fact is that the only comparable broadcasting organisations in the world are both subject to just those same periodic reviews. 
The Government agrees with the reports comment that: . . . the ABC is the cornerstone of the Australian Broadcasting system. 
The Government intends, as the report says, that such reviews: should not be regarded as investigations of the ABC; rather they should be careful and rational discussions of the Australian national broadcasting service, of its mandate, its philosophy, its accomplishments and its future orientations. 
Indeed, such a review would be helpful to the ABC because, after all, the members of the Australian community happen to contribute $170m of the taxpayers funds- $ 130m in direct costs and $40m by way of engineering costs- for expenditure by the Commission. Before I leave this area, let me nail yet another misrepresentation. It is not true that the ABC will be reviewed while the commercial and the public broadcasters will escape such examination. The report clearly spells out, and the Government accepts, that the new Australian Broadcasting Tribunal should review the performance of licensees each time their licences are renewed. These renewals could be made after public hearings at which any member of the public or the industry will be able to speak out. Again, the basic principle of the report has been followedthat is, to maximise public and industry participation in broadcasting. 
The most serious misrepresentation concerns the future independence of the ABC. The decision to change the composition of the Commission was taken by the Government. Whilst it did not follow the exact recommendations of the Green report, it does adhere to the principles. The net result will be that the public will be more adequately represented than before. Where at the moment 4 commissioners were from one State and 2 States had none, now each of the States will at least be represented. I want to tell people- members of the Opposition particularlythat they will be proved wrong if they go around claiming publicly that the commissioners appointed by their Government will be dismissed in some wholesale manner. I suggest to them as a matter of advice that they would be wise not to make those sorts of assumptions. They will be proved inaccurate. I would also like to comment on the claim of the Leader of the Opposition with regard to the budgetary reductions within the ABC. They were not any more or less than the effective reduction in Government spending throughout the entire fabric of government and its instrumentalities. The ABC took no greater share of that burden than did other areas of government. In fact, some departments took a much larger reduction in expenditure and it is utterly unfair to suggest that there is something sinister about the minimal reductions in the vote for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
It will be seen that the report accepts representations made by the ABC and its 2 staff associations that there should be a loosening of the ties with the Public Service. The Government has accepted these recommendations and will be legislating to give the Commission a considerable degree of freedom in appointing its staff and deciding their salaries. Perhaps the most important question- certainly the question which most concerns the public- is whether the standards fixed for commercial and public broadcasters should apply also to the ABC. It is an anomaly for one set of broadcasters to have a completely different set of standards from any other. The ABC has recognised this by voluntarily accepting the standards set by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The Government has deliberately chosen not to take any action on this matter, except to have a public inquiry into the concept of self regulation by broadcasters. 
I now refer to the decision that planning functions will be undertaken by the Postal and Telecommunications Department. This has caused some outcry as though the idea of giving a department responsibility for policy and planning were unique. Of course, it is not unique. It was one of the options contained in the Green report. The Government is responsible for overall communications policy. One component of that responsibility must be strategic policy for the development of the Australian broadcasting system. This involves government decisions on such questions as the sectors which will make up the system, whether they be national, commercial or public; the role of each sector; the need for additional or new kinds of services- frequency modulation, educational, foreign language, etc; the need for services involving new technologies -for example, cable television, pay television, satellites, etc; and the availability of frequencies for sound and vision broadcasting services. Planning is a process. It simultaneously provides inputs for policy formulation and translates policy into priorities in accord with the availability of resources. Since the Department already advises the Minister on policy, the Government has decided that it is a logical extension of this role for it also to undertake detailed planning. 
However, it should be stressed that adequate safeguards to protect the interests of the public and the industry exist through the Broadcasting Council. This Council will have an opportunity to examine and comment upon every planning proposal prepared by the Department. The new legislation which 1 will introduce will give the Council a statutory right to be consulted on planning proposals. Broadcasters have never had such a right before. Each sector of broadcastingthe ABC for the national sector, the television and radio federations for the commercial sector and the Public Broadcasting Association for the public sector- will be equally represented. These representatives will not be chosen by the Government; they will be chosen by the industry. In addition, members of the Council will be entitled to originate planning proposals on their own part. There will be departmental representation on the Council to facilitate liaison between the industry and the Government on broadcasting matters. There will be an independent chairman who hopefully will be able to contribute a viewpoint on behalf of consumers of broadcasting. 
In these comments I have attempted to separate the facts from the fantasy. There is nothing sinister in the report or in the Government's decisions. The claim that we are seeking to impose political influence on broadcasting is exactly the opposite of the truth. No longer will a Minister of the Crown have the final power over licences. No longer will a Minister be able to authorise punitive action against broadcasters. No longer will the public be excluded from the processes of renewing the licences of broadcasters. Now, for the first time in the history of broadcasting, all planning proposals will be fully debated by the industry and the public before they are put into operation. Now, for the first time, the members of the public will have the opportunity to comment upon the performance of the ABC at regular public reviews. The Government has retained powers only in the areas where it is necessary to do so. It has not increased its powers. Like the report on which its decisions have been based, the Government has taken as basic to any consideration of broadcasting the necessity to increase the level of public participation and involvement in those processes of policy formulation. These are licensing and regulation, which play such an important part in shaping the system to meet the basic interests of the Australian people. The Leader of the Opposition continues to claim that there is some threat to the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, despite the fact that time and time again the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and I have indicated clearly that the integrity and independence of the ABC are not at risk and are not under any threat at all. Let me remind the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues behind him that the Liberal Party platform sets out quite clearly that freedom of expression in the Press, radio and television and freedom from governmental and political interference are fundamental to Liberal beliefs and essential to democratic government. It is further stated that the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be independent of political control. The media policy of the National Country Party is similar to that. 
We have had a good broadcasting system in Australia. The changes upon which the Government has decided will improve that system. Now we will have an independent Tribunal and we will have a Broadcasting Council which will involve the industry and the public in planning and policy. The decisions which the Government has taken will make a good system a better one- the best system of broadcasting in the world. There will be other considerations flowing from the Green report. There will be ample opportunity for debate and discussion before any Government decision is made. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The investigations into the delivery of letter bombs to the Queensland Premier, the Prime Minister and the Governor-General in November 1975 have been carried out by the Commonwealth, New South Wales and Queensland Police Forces and are continuing. 
No claim has been made for the full reward of $20,000 but a smaller reward was made last year to a person who provided information of assistance to investigations. 
As a result of investigations carried out by the Queensland Police, two children were dealt with by the Brisbane Childrens' Court for offences connected with a device addressed to the Prime Minister and intercepted on 25 November 1975. This is the only case of which I am aware where charges were subsequently laid. 
Election of Officers in Employee Organisations  (Question No. 1016) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Although firm plans for any improvements have not yet been finalised. 
Yes. 
An inter-departmental committee convened by my Department has been working for some weeks on the preparation of a full report on the needs of the Radio Australia service. The report is expected to be completed shortly and will cover all of the issues raised in  Sir Keith  Waller's earlier report including the questions of rehabilitation of the damaged Darwin station and the obsolescence of the Shepparton station. 
See (3). 
See(3). 
-I want first of all to make the point that the budgetary restraints placed upon the Australian Broadcasting Commission were no greater than the restraints placed upon the rest of Government expenditure. I am aware that yesterday there was a meeting of the Commission and a decision was taken to reduce expenditure by $2m. It has been decided that there will be a reduction or an elimination of some programs.  State of the Nation, This Day Tonight, Monday Conference  and others have been mentioned in that context. I would be prepared to say that of course we would like the Australian Broadcasting Commission to maintain the highest possible number of public affairs programs, particularly if they are presented in an objective manner. When the  Chairman  of the Commission writes to me, as I understand he proposes to do, putting the facts before me, I will study them and if I believe that they justify an approach to the Government, that approach will be .made. 
-I am well aware of the problems in the foothills of Adelaide. Indeed, the honourable member for Sturt has raised this matter with me on a number of occasions. I have been over there and discussed this matter in Adelaide. I repeat once again that this problem will have to be resolved satisfactorily before the end of this year. A decision on the UHF translator has been made but regrettably its operation probably will be a year to 18 months away. Obviously, some solution has to be found in the short term whilst we are awaiting that translator. I want to say this to the honourable member for Sturt: I will not comment publicly upon his obvious criticism of an officer of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The Board cannot promise funds. The Board does not have funds to expend on this matter. I will have to content myself by saying to the honourable member for Sturt that he is aware I know of the details of the discussions and conversations. He is aware I have indicated that I believe this is a matter that has to be resolved. I am looking for a short term solution which will get us over the immediate problem. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is the second of the measures required to give effect to the obligations Australia will have under the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations with Papua New Guinea. The Agreement requires that the incidence of sales tax on goods produced in Papua New Guinea should be no greater than that on like Australian products. This equality is provided in the present sales tax except for one group of products for which exemption is limited to the Australian products. This group comprises cordials, concentrates and food flavourings containing not less than 25 per cent Australian fruit juice, or its equivalent in concentrated form, and non-alcoholic beverages consisting wholly of Australian fruit or vegetable juice. 
The Bill will provide for a corresponding exemption for juice products produced in Papua New Guinea from juices of that country. A minor amendment is proposed to the exemption provision for works of art produced in Australia or abroad by Australian artists to reinforce the established interpretation under which exemption is applied to all works of art produced in Australia and to those produced abroad by Australian artists. This Bill will also ensure that works of art produced in Papua New Guinea will be exempt as required by the agreement. It is also proposed to make a number of other amendments which are of a drafting nature only and do not affect the operation of the present Act. 
The Bill is to come into operation on a date to be proclaimed, the intention being that it will operate from a date which will coincide with the date on which the Agreement comes into force. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill in detail is being circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The opening ceremony is usually performed by the Minister, a Commissioner or in the case of the Australian Telecommunications Commission by its State Manager. 
Both Commissions invite the local Federal member and also a  Senator from  the opposing political party. Both these Parliamentarians participate in the ceremony and for this reason the Australian Postal Commission has recorded their attendance and participation on the plaque. There have been no occasions on whicha commemorative plaque has been affixed to the four new facilities opened by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-It is, of course, speculation and I suppose it flowed from the fact that the Green report mentioned the substantial cost of symphony orchestras and invited the Government to consider the matter. The Government made it perfectly clear that it would have no part of any attempt to interfere with the entrepreneural activities of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but simply said that information as to expenditure and income ought to be made available so that the Parliament would know and understand the level of that expenditure. The Government does not interfere with the internal management of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the question of symphony orchestras is a matter for the ABC. I am not aware that at any time the ABC has given me any reason to believe that it is considering the reduction of symphony orchestras in any State of Australia. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The amendment was made by the Senate following discussion between the Commonwealth Ministers involved and the Victorian Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hunt.  The purpose of the amendment is to provide the States with greater flexibility as to the form of the hearings of local government grants commissions. The amendment is of a minor technical nature and does not change the substance of clause 4 (b) (ii) which still requires that hearings of local government grants commissions in connection with the distribution of Commonwealth assistance to local government under the new tax sharing arrangements be held in public except in extraordinary circumstances. 
In response to the remarks of the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I think I ought to make it perfectly clear to him and to the Committee that the Government is very proud of this legislation. It is a tremendous improvement in the financial structure of local authorities throughout Australia. Local authority people throughout my State of Queensland and other parts of Australia which I have visited recently- indeed, local authority people everywhere- have welcomed this as a very desirable initiative. It gives them a very real ability to plan their financial expenditure, which they were not able to do under the previous Administration. We are delighted to see that our federalism policy is being accepted throughout Australia. One of the great attributes of this Government is that, when it introduces a piece of legislation such as this, if there is a response from local authorities or from State governments we are happy to listen to them and we are happy to come back with amendments where they improve the Bill. The amendments which were made before and on this occasion are designed to make the Bill a better one and are designed to make for better legislation generally. This will go down in history as one of the most forward looking moves within the economy of this country that we have seen for many years. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to give effect to Government decisions in regard to the licensing, regulation, planning and administration of the Australian broadcasting system. It also relates to the restructuring of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and a revision of certain of its relationships with the Public Service Board. In a statement to the House on 23 March 1976, I called for a review of broadcasting having in mind a number of major deficiencies which had become widely recognised over recent years. At this stage in the development of our broadcasting system, there is the need to redefine the responsibilities of the Government and its instrumentalities in broadcasting matters, and to update administrative procedures. Still further, there should be greater opportunity for both public and industry involvement in broadcasting development and a revision of planning, licensing and regulatory processes so that they are more in accord with today's conditions. 
Much of the present broadcasting legislation is also very much outmoded and is not suitable to accommodate the emerging public sector of broadcasting. Consequently, the Government decided in April 1976 that an inquiry should be undertaken by the Postal and Telecommunications Department. The inquiry has now been completed and its report, which has been referred to as the Green report, was tabled in both Houses of the Parliament on 9 November 1976. So far as the structure of the broadcasting system is concerned the Government has decided upon a number of major changes. The first two of these cover the disbandment of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the establishment of an Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Tribunal will be a 'quasi-judicial' body with powers to hold public inquiries into the grant and renewal of licences in the commercial and public sectors. Powers of the Tribunal will also extend into such matters as the setting of standards of broadcasting practice, alleged breaches of licence conditions, or any aspect of broadcasting referred to it by the Minister. It will also assume the present Ministerial responsibilities to grant, renew, suspend or revoke licences as well as impose conditions on licences, or impose penalties. 
The Tribunal will ultimately be granted all the powers presently available to either the Minister or the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in the administration of ownership and control provisions applicable to broadcasting licences. The grant of these powers to a separate independent statutory authority will substantially reduce the possibility of political involvement in the licensing process. It will extend the functions of the Tribunal beyond those previously exercised by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It will be required to license public as well as commercial stations, and to hold public inquiries into the renewal of licences. The legislative amendments required to fully implement the decisions of Government in the licensing area are quite extensive. It has not been possible for Parliamentary Counsel to complete all of the necessary drafting in time for consideration in this session of Parliament. As an interim measure, therefore, this Bill is designed to establish the Tribunal, specify its membership and transfer to it the Control Board's present functions and responsibilities with regard to licensing and public inquiries. 
In addition, and also as an interim measure, the Tribunal will, under the provisions of this Bill, assume the responsibilities of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in administering the present standards of broadcasting practice. The Tribunal will be directed by me to hold a public inquiry into the concept of a greater degree of self regulation' by the industry itself as proposed in the report, based on minimum standards to be determined by the Tribunal. The Tribunal will also recommend whether the national sector should conform to such standards. The public will thus have the opportunity of expressing its view whether the ABC should be subject to the same minimum standards of broadcasting practice as the commercial and public broadcasters. Should the Tribunal find that the community favours more autonomy being given to the broadcasters by allowing them to develop and largely administer their own codes of programming and advertising practice, the Tribunal would then withdraw from the day-to-day administration of standards. It would examine only those significant matters of standards or regulation referred to it by a representative body of the broadcast operators, such as the Broadcasting Council designated in this Bill. 
It should be mentioned at this stage that the present programming and advertising standards as administered by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, are considered by the broadcasting industry, much of the public, and even by the Board itself, as being outmoded and antiquated under today's conditions. The early establishment of an Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will facilitate the machinery and procedures for any move toward more appropriate or flexible form of regulation which may be considered desirable following full public discussion and debate on this issue. As far as the planning functions are concerned it is important to stress that these relate essentially to the improvement of, or extensions to, the physical services of the system. They do not relate to any form of program planning, which is the responsibility of the operators themselves. The department would be concerned only with the programming spectrum provided through the national, commercial and public sectors of the system. This will be for the purpose of establishing whether new services should be planned to provide for special interest, minority or alternative forms of programming which are not currently being provided. 
Planning the physical development of the Austraiian broadcasting system is properly a matter for government as it is closely related to its overall communications policy, and its current responsibility for the management of the radio frequency spectrum. Planning therefore involves the translation of the Government's strategic broadcasting policies into priorities, and in accord with the availability of resources. It is a 2-part process, as planning provides an important input to policy formation, and is also an essential element in the detailed implementation of policy. The Department already carries out an advisory role to the Minister on broadcasting matters. The Government has therefore decided that it is a logical extension of this role for the closely associated planning processes to also be undertaken by the Department. 
In addition, it is the view of the Government that appropriate machinery and procedures should be provided for a regular form of industry consultation on planning matters so that each sector of broadcasting will have an opportunity to comment on plans drawn up by the Department. This will be facilitated by the establishment of the Broadcasting Council provided for in this Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The Council will be made up largely of representatives from the national, commercial and public sectors of broadcasting. All plans prepared by the Department will be submitted to meetings of the Council as standard procedure. Each sector of the industry will, therefore, be fully informed of the planning proposals, and have the opportunity to debate and record its views on the planning issues involved. This is a major step forward and it is hoped that, by this process, more informed judgments on future plans will be possible. 
I emphasise that the Council is not an executive body with power to take decisions on planning. It is consultative only. Some critics apparently see it as having authority to take decisions affecting the ABC and lessening the present powers and independence of the Commission. Let me emphasise again that the Council will have no such power to make decisions in respect of the ABC's role and policies. It will also be a responsibility of the Department to administer the technical standards as approved by the Minister in relation to the technical equipment and operation of broadcasting and television stations. Its technical staff will also detect sources of interference with the transmission or reception of station broadcasts or telecasts. This latter responsibility is already carried out by the Department on behalf of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Associated with these functions, the Department will also conduct the necessary examinations as to the competency of persons to operate the technical equipment of broadcasting and television stations. Two new provisions have been included in this legislation which relate to the composition and staffing of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
It is considered that as the ABC is a national service provided through a large networking arrangement to all States throughout Australia, that there should be at least 6 commissioners to represent people from different States. At present there is an imbalance of State representation with some States having no representation at all. It is well recognised that there are widely differing programming needs by people located in the various regions throughout Australia. We believe that State appointments will provide for more positive representation of those needs. The existing legislation also provides for at least one commissioner to be a woman. Having regard to the high interest which is being taken in the improvement of programs for children as well as those of more specific interest to women, and also the fact that considerably increased attention is being given to the social consequences of broadcasting, it has been decided to increase the minimum number of women on the commission to at least two. This is not to say, of course, that additional women who have the qualifications, skills or experience which would enable them to make a valuable contribution will not be appointed to the Commission. 
The Bill provides for the full number of Commissioners to remain at nine and any new appointments which become necessary, will be made in keeping with the revised composition of the Commission, as I have outlined. 
As a result of this legislation, the Commission will also be given greater flexibility in its staffing arrangements. In future the creation or reclassification of positions within the Commission, and the determination of salaries or salary ranges, will no longer require the approval of the Public Service Board where such positions involve salaries below that of the lowest level of the second division. The Bill also provides for a joint consultative committee which will set up formal consultative machinery to facilitate the greatest degree of co-operation between the staff and management of the Commission. I emphasise that the Government expects this machinery to be used regularly by members of the Commission, its management and staff, and cognisance taken of the views expressed. Two other provisions of the present Act requiring ministerial approval for contracts entered into by the Commission where they are in excess of $100,000 have now been relaxed to require ministerial approval only where they are $250,000 or more. These matters are in accord with Government's policy to provide the Commission with greater autonomy in the management of its daytoday operations. It is thus the very opposite to some critics who interpret our decisions as leading to greater government interference in the ABC. 
One of the important new provisions in this Bill is that which will permit the licensing of public broadcasting and television stations under the Broadcasting and Television Act. At the present time these stations can only be licensed under the inadequate provisions of the Wireless Telegraph Act. Finally, the Bill covers a number of transitional provisions relative to the transfer of the functions and powers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. Matters of property, instruments, agreements, proceedings, rights, liabilities and the like to which the Board was a party before commencing day are specified in terms of the manner in which transitional arrangements will apply. These transitional provisions are also extended as necessary to cover the amendments made to the principal Act in respect of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Appointments made to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and the Broadcasting Council between the time of royal assent to the new Act and commencement date, will not have effect before 1 January 1977. There is also provision for the making of all necessary regulations under the principal Act as may be required by the amendments of the new Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill to amend section 6 of the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Act 1964 is to omit from sub-section 3 a direct reference to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in relation to the future application of sub-section 106 (2) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. The amendment is a machinery one which deals with the accounting period on which broadcasting station licence fees are to be assessed. It is consequential upon the structural changes to the Australian broadcasting system dealt with in the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill to amend section 6 of the Television Stations Licence Fees Act 1964 is to omit from sub-section 3 a direct reference to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in relation to the future application of sub-section 106 (2) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. The amendment is a machinery one which deals with the accounting period on which television station licence fees are to be assessed. It is consequential upon the structural changes to the Australian broadcasting system dealt with in the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
to (6) Not applicable. 
The remaining questions do not fall within my Ministerial responsibility but I have received the following information from ATN Channel 7 which may be of interest to the honourable member 
Nil but the station itself accepted costs to some $33,000. 
Approximately $306,000. 
To 12 October 1976 $246,862.88 had been banked. Further donations are expected. 
Donations are being handled directly by the Children's Medical Research Foundation administration using their prescribed procedures. 
Messrs Priestley and Morris who have been auditors to the Foundation since its inception in 1 958. 
The total amount received will be brought into account in the Foundation's published 1976-77 Annual Report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A tender from an Australian manufacturer was received by Telecom Australia for some telephone directory paper but because the prices submitted were substantially higher than overseas tenderers, the tender was not accepted. 
The following contracts for directory paper have been let: 
-I am concerned about the problems of providing communications in all parts of Australia. The facts are that we do have television facilities for more than 90 per cent of the Australian community but they serve only, I think, about 15 per cent of the land mass. As for the honourable member's electorate, I know there are problems there, as there are in a number of other large rural electorates. These are being looked at. The Government, as financial arrangements are available, will seek to do what it can to improve television viewing facilities. I noted the honourable member's observations about the contribution his electorate makes to the generation of wealth within Queensland and Australia. I share that view and I share his view that the Government's decision on devaluation will assist. Could I observe also to a friend and colleague that the contribution his electorate makes to Australia is reflected in his contribution to this Parliament. 
The main thrust of the Government's decisions have been in the area of the structure of broadcasting. One of the principal decisions is to disband the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and to replace it with the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. As the Prime Minister said earlier, it, and it alone, will have the right to decide the allocation of licences for commercial and public broadcasting. There will also be a broadcasting council which will bring together the national network, the public broadcasting, the commercial network, the Department and the community so that we can have a greater community involvement in broadcasting. 
Questions may be put to a Member, not being a Minister or an Assistant Minister, relating to any Bill, motion or other public matter connected with the business of the House . . . 
The next standing order lists the general things that can be put. I draw your attention to the fact that there is before the House a Bill which involves this question. I ask for your ruling as to whether the question is in order. 
This broadcasting council, which will have a consultative role, will be of great assistance to the Australian community and to the industry generally. The industry and the community will be better informed. The council will reduce the political involvement in the broadcasting system. That is desirable. That is the thrust of the Government's decision. 
One of the changes to the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be that although the Commission of nine will remain the same there will be a requirement for each State to have at least one representative. Of the 9 members, two will have to be women. At present the Act requires that only one of the nine be a woman. Another change will be that the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be subject to an independent inquiry, perhaps every 5 years. It would be a good thing for the Commission and for the Australian nation if the community had the right from time to time to comment independently and, if necessary, to criticise the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This will not be a directive. The Commission will be free to act upon those comments and upon that inquiry as it sees fit. 
Of course the Department is working on the Green report. We have looked only at the structure. The Green report contains a number of recommendations. The Department is looking at some of those recommendations. There are meetings in the Department and with other departments on matters pertaining to and flowing from the Green report. I say to the honourable member for Bowman that no decision will be reached. I think he asked particularly about a meeting on FM scheduled for 2 December. I understand that there is to be a meeting. I assure the honourable member and everybody else that no decision on FM will be taken until the new year. It will be the subject of a separate submission to Cabinet. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1961 Professor W. D. Borrie; 1962 Professor W. G. K. Duncan; 1963 Professor J. D. B. Miller; 1964 George Ivan Smith; 1965 Professor  Sir John  Eccles; 1966  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet; 1967 Robin Boyd; 1968 Professor W. E. H. Stanner; 1969 Professor Zelman Cowen; 1970  Dr H.  C. Coombs; 1971 Professor B. S. Hetzel; 1972 Professor Dexter Dunphy; 1973 Professor Keith Hancock; 1974 Hugh Stretton; 1975 The  Hon.  Justice Mitchell. 
) Available records do not enable an answer to be given. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been allegations concerning attacks on ethnic communities being broadcast and some of the allegations have related to Melbourne. However, it is not clear which allegations are referred to and the question is not specific enough for a more detailed reply. 
The Melbourne stations which have at one time or another been mentioned are 3EA, 3ZZ, and 3CR. 
As the honourable member will be aware, 3EA is an 'ethnic' broadcasting station operated at present under the control of my Department; 3ZZ is an 'access' station operated by the Australian Broadcasting Commission; 3CR is a 'community' station operated by the Community Radio Federation Ltd. 
The Government believes that ethnic broadcasting should be a means of developing harmony and understanding between and within ethnic communities. Accordingly, in its decision of 9 September 1976 to place ethnic broadcasting on a permanent basis, it adopted a set of criteria for the new service which include the following; assist in promoting mutual understanding and harmony between and within ethnic groups and between ethnic groups and the English-speaking community; avoid political partisanship. 
I understand that none of the three stations previously mentioned automatically prepare transcripts of programs, but all three tape-record; their programs as they are broadcast. In response to specific requests I have, in the past, been able to furnish duplicate tapes of particular programs broadcast on 3EA. The ABC is able to do the same for 3ZZ The licensees of 3CR are under no obligation to supply tapes but may do so if requested. 
If the honourable member cares to provide details of the allegations to which he refers and the times, dates and stations concerned, they will certainly be investigated by the appropriate authority and he will be advised of the outcome. 
The suggestion that my Department and Treasury have recommended that Radio Australia be closed is incorrect. Such is not the case. As I indicated to the Leader of the Opposition earlier, I believe that very shortly I will be able to make to the Government and to the Parliament some recommendations. It is very close. I will look to see whether it is possible to do so prior to the recess. 
Yes, I did hear the lead story on  AM  this morning. Quite frankly, I was disgusted because I thought that it was a pretty poor standard of journalism. Here we had someone using the national airwaves to put forward unsourced and unsubstantiated statements. I find this action extraordinary. We need only pick up any newspaper or listen to radio and television day after day to read and to hear what is said by prominent Australians who are engaged, as the person concerned said today, in 'banking, economic and industrial circles' at the annual meetings of their companies or at public engagements. We encourage them to say quite clearly what they believe on economic issues. Yet this young gentleman this morning claims that he could not find one person to put a name to the information that he saw fit to put over the Australian Broadcasting Commission network. 
-It is helpful for the Australian community to hear the voices of the wreckers, that is, to hear the interjections that are being made by the people who wrecked the economy over 3 years. 
-If the honourable member wants to ask a question on foreign policy, I suggest that he should ask it of the Foreign Minister. My responsibility is to administer the relevant Act. If people use radios for receiving or transmitting messages illegally, I will take the appropriate action. I do not care whether the offence takes place in Darwin or anywhere else. It is very interesting that a lot of concern is expressed on this matter. The Department is proceeding continuously against a number of people. We have cases right throughout Australia. The honourable member is therefore selecting one decision and trying to make something out of it. I do not care whether an offence takes place in Darwin or any other part of Australia. If information comes to the Department or to me that people are illegally using radio equipment, the law will proceed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Advertisements are placed regularly by my Department in both daily newspapers and periodicals to acquaint members of the public of the need to hold licences to operate radiocommunication equipment. Such licensing requirements are, of course, also given extensive coverage in various Government publications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is no. 
The answer to the honourable member's queston is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The attitude of the Government is that personnel matters within the ABC are the concern of the Commission. 
to (6) The Government does consider that the ABC is fulfilling an important role in providing for a wide spectrum of political and social opinion. The special projects branch no doubt makes a contribution to the ABC's effort. As the honourable member has now had the opportunity to read the Green Report he will agree that it is free of political bias and does not recommend any action in regard to the special projects branch. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The reward was paid in relation to a device intercepted in Brisbane on 25 November 1975 addressed to the Prime Minister. 
Yes. 
Two children appeared in the Children's Court Brisbane and were admonished by the Special Magistrate and discharged under the provisions of the Children's Services Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no radio fequency band set aside in Australia purely for a citizens radio service such as exists in the United States of America and certain other countries. However portion ofthe 27 megahertz band has been used for handphone mobile radio services. Such services are authorised for emergency purposes, to facilitate industrial, business or pastoral activities and for other useful purposes which are considered to warrant the grant of a licence. 
As at 30 June 1976 25 099 of such licences were currently in force. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Postal Services Act 1975 I present the text of a ministerial direction dated 11 November 1976 made by me to the Australian Postal Commission. 
by leave-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thank the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and the House for their courtesy this afternoon. Earlier, the House was given a number of amendments which we will discuss next week in the debate on the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2) 1976; but I believed that it would be helpful to that debate if this afternoon I gave information on the amendments that have been circulated. 
The first of these is in relation to clause 9 of the Bill which deals with the composition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The basic intent of this clause is to provide for representation on the Commission from each State as well as ensuring that at least two of the commissioners will be women. It has now been decided that, during the implementation of this intention, provision should be made for all present commissioners to serve out their remaining terms of office. This, in tura, leads to the desirability of providing some flexibility in the numbers of members who may be appointed to the Commission so that State representation and an increase in the number of women on the Commission can be achieved, without prejudice to the unexpired periods of office of the existing commissioners. 
Accordingly, I now propose that the Commission shall consist of not less than nine, and not more than eleven, commissioners. Because of the intention for the Commission to comprise a representative from each State and also at least 2 women, as well as the Government's intention to retain all existing commissioners, it will be necessary to deem certain of the present commissioners as representing a State. This is now provided for in the new amendment. I emphasise that this will have no effect on the remaining terms of the present commissioners. It will also be necessary to change the quorum provisions of the Act in the light of the number of commissioners who may now be appointed to the Commission. 
Clause 6 of the Bill provides for a new subsection 16 ( 1 ) (c) of the principal Act. This subsection empowers the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 'to determine the hours during which programs are to be or may be broadcast or televised by licensees'. This provision differs from the original wording which gave similar power to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in the principal Act, by the addition of the words 'are to be or'. These words were included on the advice of Parliamentary Counsel, and their purpose was to remove any doubt which may arise if the validity of this provision rested on the words 'may be' as is now the case in respect of sub-section 16 (1) (c) of the present Act. 
However, there have been a number of representations to me on this amendment and as the present legislation is largely transitional in nature, I have agreed to withdraw the words 'are to be or' from sub-section 16(1) (c) of the present Bill. Clause 13 of the Bill introduced interim provisions for the licensing and administration of stations in the public broadcasting sector. Section IIIB of that clause was drafted to provide that, in this transitional legislation, public broadcasting and television stations would be subject to the same licensing, regulatory and administrative procedures as commercial broadcasting and television stations. However, the drafting has been interpreted by some to enable the public inquiry process to be avoided. Because of this I am proposing a further amendment to make it abundantly clear, that a public hearing will be necessary before a licence of this type can be granted under the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
I stress again that legislation to be prepared for introduction next year will provide in detail for the administration of this new and important sector of our broadcasting system. I also propose an addition to clause 14 to provide for clarification of the responsibility of the secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department as detailed in section 1 1 ID. This section vests the planning responsibilities for the development of the Australian broadcasting system in the department. Future plans will be heavily oriented to social and economic issues as well as to technical considerations. It is necessary, however, to ensure that this important overall planning responsibility cannot be interpreted as permitting the secretary to direct stations in matters of program content. Accordingly, the new provision is designed to make it quite clear that clause 14 will not convey a right for the secretary to in any way require changes in the program formats of stations, on either an individual or collective basis. 
A further amendment proposed is that section 1 1 lc of clause 14 of the present Bill be deleted. This section was originally included as one of a number of machinery amendments which reallocated the powers and functions of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It provides that the Minister may, subject to the approval of the Treasurer, provide financial assistance to commercial broadcasting and television stations to ensure that programs of adequate extent standard and variety are provided in the areas served by those stations. Apart from the possibility that a provision of this nature could lead to some commercial operators applying pressure on the Government to make assistance available to alleviate financial difficulties resulting from their own commercial practices, the inclusion of such section in the Act does not, in reality, provide the Minister with any additional powers. The Executive Government may, at any time, provide assistance to a particular industry, should it so desire, from funds appropriated for that purpose by the Parliament. It therefore does not need legislation as now provided for in section 1 1 lc of clause 14. I look forward to the debate next week. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill and the United States Naval Communications Station (Civilian Employees) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions, of course, will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore I suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Government opposes the amendment moved by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I regret that I was unable to hear all of the contributions made by members of the Opposition this afternoon, but it seems to me that they have some idea that there is something sinister about this legislation. Of course all of their words amount to suspicion and speculation. Let them for a moment have an open mind and listen to a few facts because once they accept the facts they will not be concerned with speculation and suspicion. 
First, the Government decided in April to initiate the Green inquiry. I was able to present some recommendations to the Government early in October. During the period between April and October about 600 submissions were presented to the inquiry. Ample opportunity was given to organisations and people throughout Australia to make their views known. They did so, and their submissions were valuable. During that period quite a number of informal useful discussions were held with interested parties. I find that despite that, despite the fact that the Green report was tabled in the Parliament some weeks ago and despite the fact that the Government's intentions have been known for some weeks people such as the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who spoke last in the debate, are still making erroneous statements. The honourable member for Melbourne is apparently concerned that the same rules will not apply to public broadcasting as will apply to commercial broadcasting. Let me state quite clearly that the legislation we are now discussing is in part transitional legislation and that public broadcasting will go through exactly the same format as commercial broadcasting. It will have exactly the same requirement to go before the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for open and public inquiries as will commercial broadcasting. 
We propose to disband the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, leave the new Tribunal with the quasi-judicial powers of licensing, the renewal of licences and, if necessary, the ability to revoke licences. One of the first jobs it will do will be to hold an open public inquiry into the questions of standards and self-regulation. It will be open to everyone and every organisation in Australia to make comment on those questions because it is desirable, if we can move towards self-regulation, to see whether this arrangement is available and acceptable to Australians. 
Planning will go back to the Postal and Telecommunications Department but we have quite clearly ensured that the Department will not be able to interfere with the programming of commercial radio stations. That has never been the concept. To ensure absolutely that this is the thrust of the Government's policy the amendment about which I spoke in the House last Friday has been included. A lot of utter nonsense has been spoken- I regret to say even by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)about  the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It remains independent and its integrity is not at risk or under threat. 
We would reject the suggestion that the ABC should be separate and apart from the Government's economic policy. This year the ABC's budget was decreased from $138m to $129m, a reduction of $9m or about 6 per cent. This reduction was much smaller than the overall across the board cuts in the Budget which were of the order of 10 per cent. It was a much smaller percentage than cuts in many other government departments and instrumentalities. It is known to the ABC and to  Sir Henry  Bland, as it is known to every other government instrumentality, that they can come back to the Government with a submission based upon costs which are unavoidable.  Sir Henry  is aware that his case will be considered on its merits when he chooses to send it to us. 
Mention was made of representation on the Commission. We want all the States represented. The enlarged Commission will allow for that and for all the present Commissioners to serve their full terms of office. I never said that it would be otherwise. Reports to the contrary have all been based upon speculation and not upon any statements by the Government. I would have thought that the Opposition would have been pleased with the decision to establish the Broadcasting Council because this instrumentality will enable liaison to take place in a co-operative and consultative way between all the elements of broadcasting, from the national network, the public broadcasters, the commercial broadcasters to the Department. It is desirable that the Council can comment on planning. 
The whole thrust of this legislation is to take politics out of broadcasting. The Minister will no longer have the right to decide as to who gets licences. The finding of the Tribunal will be the determining factor. The autonomy and integrity of ethnic radio and Radio Australia will be maintained because they will both be remaining within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Cass's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The Government rejects the amendment. It is not a question of concern or speculation that the Government wants to have 'its nominees' on this particular Tribunal. The Tribunal will be quite different from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It will be an entirely new body. As honourable members will know, 2 members of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will retire at the end of December this year anyhow. I do not rule out that people who have served on the Control Board might be invited to serve on the Tribunal. The Tribunal will not have part time members; it will have associate members. I see no relationship, in principle, to the comparison with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We want to have associate members with specific knowledge about problems which will be tackled by the new Tribunal. I reject any suggestion that there is any attempt at political interference. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board is being disbanded. This is an entirely new body. The Government cannot accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
Section 16 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 
6. ( 1 ) The functions of the Tribunal are to perform the duties and to exercise the powers imposed or conferred upon it by other provisions of this Act and, in addition- 
to determine the standards to be observed by licensees in respect of broadcasting or televising of programs; 
to determine the conditions subject to which advertisements may be broadcast or televised by licensees; and 
to determine the hours during which programs are to be or may be broadcast or televised by licensees, and include such other functions in relation to broadcasting stations and television stations as are prescribed.' 
I move: 
In proposed section 16(l)(c),omit'aretobeor' 
I have received some submissions to the effect that some people are concerned that the addition of these words may be too restrictive. The Government therefore moves for their deletion. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment. I do not want to go over the ground traversed by a number of Government members. I assure the Committee that the Tribunal will be interested in reading the comments made during this debate. I listened very carefully to the discussion on this amendment. Some points made by Opposition spokesmen I will certainly take into account and discuss with the Tribunal. I would like the Committee to be quite clear that the first job of the Tribunal will be to have a public inquiry into standards and into the concept of self-regulation. The Government has not accepted the concept of self-regulation. We believe it is desirable if an industry or a profession can achieve a great degree of self- discipline or selfregulation. Standards will be set. Let me assure the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  that included in those standards will be advertising standards. Certainly the question of Australian content raised by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  is a very significant one and one about which the Tribunal will need to be concerned in the national interest. 
I am aware of a very real concern in the community to maintain the capacity which we have achieved in recent years in the various areas of drama, theatre and, generally, contribution to Australian content in entertainment. I assure the shadow Minister, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  that the Government's policy, while it is not in this Bill, will be that when the legislation comes in next year all decisions of the Tribunal will be subject to appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I believe that is absolutely necessary. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
After section 22 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 22a. ( 1 ) Where an inquiry is held by 2 or more members and those members are divided in opinion as to the recommendations to be made on any matter- 
if there is a majority of the one opinion- the recommendation shall be in accordance with the opinion of the majority; or 
in any other case- the recommendation shall be in accordance with the opinion of the member presiding at the inquiry, but the opinion or opinions of the member or members disagreeing with the recommendation shall be set out in the report relating to the inquiry. 
In sub-section (1), 'member' includes an associate member.'. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment although I would like to assure the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  that it is the thrust of the Green report, my submission to the Government and the Government's decision that these reports be made public. This can be done on an administrative basis and we see no need for it to be embodied in the legislation. 
I listened very carefully to the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and I will take his comments into account when we are looking at further amendments to the legislation next year. But we are not in a position to accept the amendment now. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
Sections 31, 32 and 33 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections substituted:- "31.(1) The Commission shall consist of- 
6 Commissioners, comprising, in respect of each State, a person ordinarily resident in that State; and 
3 other Commissioners. "(2 ) At least 2 of the Commissioners shall be women. 
I move: 
In proposed section 31(1)(b), omit '3', substitute 'not fewer than 3 nor more than 5 '. 
This amendment is designed to allow the Commission to consist of no less than nine and no more than eleven. The original decision of the Government was that we would maintain the Commission at the same strength. But we are desirous, and indeed this is in the legislation, that each State will be represented by at least one Commissioner and that there will be 2 women on the Commission. When we considered the situation it was quite clear, bearing in mind the size of the representation from the State of New South Wales particularly, that it would not be possible to achieve this representation and to allow all the present commissioners to continue in office until at least the expiration of their appointed term. This amendment will allow the appointment of a representative from Tasmania, a representative from South Australia, which are not represented on the Commission at the present time, plus another woman, without in any way interfering with the term of office of the current commissioners. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The 2 amendments moved by the Opposition are not acceptable to the Government. I will make one or two observations. If this principle was so important, I wonder why, in the 3 years of the Labor Administration, the then Minister did not see fit to introduce an amendment to the Bill which would have created such a situation. What happened was that a vacancy occurred and the Minister at that time decided to invite the staff to see whether they would like to elect a person who would then be appointed to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I understand that  Mr Webb,  who was elected, is paid as a commissioner and as a staff member of the ABC. 
That is not really the key issue. The key issue is: What does the Opposition mean by worker participation? Worker participation does not equate with an elective system amongst employees to go on boards or commissions. If we take that to its fullest extent, if any party embraces that principle, it virtually says to all the large companies and corporations throughout Australia that it believes that the best way of managing their affairs on behalf of their shareholders and on behalf of the Australian community is to implement such a system. What the Liberal and National Country Parties mean by worker participation is somewhat deeper and broader than that. We want to achieve a true relationship between board and commission and between management and staff. What we are looking to and what this Bill includes is formal consultative machinery which will be set up so that all the components that make up the ABCall the various organisations, Actors Equity, senior officers, staff and so on- will be able to come together with management and with commissions for the common purpose of uniting the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the 6800 people it employs for its own benefit and for the benefit of the Australian community. 
Surely it will be much more desirable and much more valuable to have a large group of people involved in creating the best circumstances under which the Commission can discharge its charter to the Australian community. An elective system to put one single commissioner on the ABC is not necessarily the best way to do that. We have not decided what our attitude is. We will wait arid see. When  Mr Webb's  term of office expires we will then judge the situation upon the experience that the benefits of that single position has created and look to the benefits of the consultative machinery that we are creating. 
I think that the Opposition is drawing a long bow about the appointment of 2 women to the Commission. All we are simply saying is that we believe it is necessary and desirable- bearing in mind the social impact, the educational impact and the concern for children in society- that at least two of the 9 people be women. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  invited me to give an assurance to the House about the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission. Those Commissions are not the subject of debate tonight and I am not prepared to give any assurance in relation to them. Those Commissions have been in operation for 18 months. The Government is looking closely to see whether what has happened in the overall administration of those 2 large and substantial Commissions proves to be beneficial. I thought that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  demonstrated a lack of acceptance of Tasmania when he admitted that he, as a Minister, was unable to find amongst half a million Tasmanians one single person with the qualifications necessary to serve on the ABC. Within a matter of days, it will be demonstrated that this Government is able to find a distinguished Tasmanian who will serve not only as a Tasmanian but indeed as an Australian in contributing to the ABC. 
The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  invited me to make comment on the question of the retiring age for commissioners and their tenure of office. This matter has been brought to the Government's attention by the Green report. It suggests that the retiring age should be seventy and that the tenure of office should be no longer than 10 years. That provision is not embodied in the Bill. It is something that can be looked at administratively. I think, by and large, that concept is attractive to the Government. It is desirable to have people who have experience on the Commission for some time but it is also desirable to have new people coming in with fresh ideas and initiatives. The fact that we will be able to stage the appointments of commissioners for a period of up to 5 years, will enable us to have a combination of experience and of new people coming in to contribute new ideas. The Government rejects as unnecessary the amendment moved by the Opposition in relation to a staff elected commissioner. It believes it should not be part of the legislation. The Government regrets that the Labor Party should be opposed to the Government specifying that at least two out of 9 people on the Commission ought to be women. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 10a. 
I move: 
After clause 10, insert the following new clause: " 10a. Section 39 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (2) the words 'four Commissioners shall form a quorum' and substituting the words 'a quorum is constituted by a majority of the Commissioners for the time being holding office. '. '. 
This is a machinery clause and I hope that it is acceptable to the Opposition. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 and 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
After Part IV of the Principal Act the following Part is inserted:- "Part IVA-The Public Broadcasting Service and the Public Television Service " 1 1 lA. ( 1) Subject to this Act, the Minister may, on payment of the prescribed fee, grant to a person a licence to operate a broadcasting station or television station for one or more of the following purposes, as specified in the licence:- 
to provide services for people within a specified area; 
b ) to provide programs of a specified nature; 
to provide programs for a specified purpose. "(2) A public broadcasting licence or public television licence shall not be granted except to a corporation formed within the limits of the Commonwealth or a Territory, not being a corporation the objects of which include the acquisition of profit or gain for the benefit of its individual members. "(3) A public broadcasting licence or public television licence may be granted on such conditions, and in accordance with such form, as the Minister determines. "(4) It is a condition of a licence granted under this Part that the broadcasting station or television station, as the case may be, is to be operated only for the purpose or purposes specified in the licence in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ). "(5) The establishment, erection, maintenance and use of a public broadcasting station or public television station in pursuance of a licence under this Part shall be deemed not to be a contravention of the  Wireless Telegraphy Act 1  905 or of the regulations under that Act. "IIIB. Subject to section 1 1 1a, the other provisions of this Act apply, with such exceptions and subject to such modifications and adaptions as are prescribed, in relation to public broadcasting stations, public television stations, public broadcasting station licences, public television station licences and the holders of such licences as they apply in relation to commercial broadcasting stations, commercial television stations, licences for such stations and the holders of such licences.". 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Before  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  moves his first amendment to this clause, might I ask the Committee if it wishes to deal with the 3 amendments together? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Does the Minister for Post and Telecommunications agree with that course? 
Yes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I will allow that course to be followed. 
The Government does not agree to the 3 amendments moved by the Opposition. There is a misunderstanding by the Opposition as to the concept. Certainly in this transitional period the Minister still has the right- the final right- about whether licences are granted or not but the whole thrust and concept of the Government's legislation is that the right of the Minister to decide whether licences will be accepted or not will lapse. With the new Tribunal and, when we get through this transitional period, with the legislation coming before the Parliament next year, the decision of the Tribunal as to which applicant gets the licence will be final and there will be no ministerial right to reject such a decision. 
-Yes. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  asked quite clearly whether this will be for public broadcasting. I assure him that exactly the same concept will apply to public broadcasting as to commercial broadcasting. The Government's attitude is that public broadcasting has a different role from commercial broadcasting. Acceptance of the Opposition 's amendments would put the Government and the Tribunal into a situation where public broadcasting in fact could compete directly with commercial broadcasting. That is not the policy of the Government and that is not the recommendation of the Green committee. Public broadcasting has a specific role and therefore the provisions in the Bill to provide services for people within a specified area, to provide programs of a specified nature and a specified purpose, are essential to the thrust of the Government's policy. Therefore on that basis the amendments are not acceptable because they would change the entire thrust of the Government's policy. I again assure the honourable member for Maribyrnong and the Committee that we want to treat applicants for licences for public broadcasting in exactly the same way as we would treat applicants for commercial broadcasting. 
Amendments negatived. 
I move: 
Omit proposed section 111b, substitute the following section:- " ' 1 11b. (1) Subject to section 111a, the other provisions of this Act apply, with such exceptions and subject to such modifications and adaptations as are prescribed, in relation to public broadcasting stations, public television stations, public broadcasting station licences, public television station licences, the holders of such licences and the grant, renewal, suspension and revocation of such licences as they apply in relation to commercial broadcasting stations, commercial television stations, licences for such stations, the holders of such licences and the grant, renewal, suspension and revocation of such licences. "(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) enables regulations to be made that would affect the application of any provision of this Act to the extent that it requires the holding of an inquiry.'.". 
This amendment makes it quite clear that the grant, renewal, suspension or revocation of licences rests with the Tribunal. It simply tidies up the thrusts of the Government's policy which I just announced to the Committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
Before section 1 12 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted in Part  v:-  " 1 1 lc. ( 1 ) The Minister may, with the approval of the Treasurer, out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purpose, provide financial assistance to commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations for the purpose of ensuring that programs of adequate extent, standard and variety are provided in the areas served by those stations. "(2) Where any financial assistance is provided under sub-section ( 1 ) in any year ending on 30 June, the Minister shall, as soon as practicable after that date, prepare a report setting out particulars of that financial assistance. "(3) The Minister shall cause a copy of a report prepared under sub-section (2) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the report has been prepared. " 1 11e. ( 1) For the purpose of discharging his responsibilities under section 1 11d, the Secretary to the Postal and Telecommunications Department may, subject to any directions of the Minister, make such orders, give such directions and do all such other things as he thinks fit. "(8) A copy of a direction given in writing shall be served personally (or, in the case of a corporation, by leaving it at the registered office of the corporation) or by post on the person required to comply with the direction and thereupon that person shall comply with the direction. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the Committee if I moved both amendments together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  that course agreeable? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
-I move: 
Omit proposed section 111c. 
At the end of proposed section111e add the following sub-section: " ' (9) Nothing in this section empowers the Secretary to make orders or give directions relating to matters of program content. ". 
The first amendment omits from the Bill proposed section 1 1 lc which enabled, with the approval of the Treasurer, moneys to be appropriated by the Parliament for financial assistance to commercial broadcasting. This was drafted in the Bill. There is no real need for it. My understanding is that no Minister of the previous Administration or of previous Liberal-Country Party administrations acted upon it. Apparently it was an old provision which would have enabled the Government to give specific assistance to small rural stations. As honourable members would know, there is within the Parliament an opportunity to appropriate funds for specific purposes should the need arise. Therefore I have moved the amendment to omit the proposed section. 
The second amendment adds a proposed section 1 11e. It is designed to be quite specific because, with the planning coming back to the Department, there is concern that power could be used by a secretary and, indirectly, by a Minister. We have disbanded the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The quasi-judicial powers for licensing have gone to the new Tribunal. Planning, which is akin to policy, has come back to the Department. To make it perfectly clear that secretaries of the Department and Ministers do not interfere with the day-to-day program content of commercial broadcasters, we seek to add the new section. Nothing in it empowers a secretary to make orders or to give directions relating to matters of program content. I think that ought to be acceptable to the Opposition because it makes perfectly clear that there will be no political interference by secretaries or Ministers in commercial broadcasting. 
Let me assure the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  that whilst the Government is very much in favour, as I believe the Parliament ought to be, of planning being conducted by the Government and the Department, planning of the broadcasting system is a very substantial responsibility. We have believed for some time that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board should not have the right to both planning and licensing. So the whole thrust is to divorce the two. It would have been possible to have the planning in the hands of yet another statutory authority. We decided- I believe properly so- that because planning was related and akin to policy it should go back to the Department. Of critical importance to this decision is the need to see that planning in relation to the Broadcasting Council would bring together all sections of the industry- the national, the public and the commercial sectors, the community and the Department. We have yet to discuss that Council. I notice that the Opposition has some amendments on that. The Council should be able to assist, to take initiatives with regard to planning. The honourable member for Bowman is knowledgeable. People who know his background will understand that he has been involved in the industry and is knowledgeable about it. I assure him and the Committee generally that the planning will be on a non-political basis. It is concerned with the system. It is concerned with the air waves, with the spectrum. We would see as essential to planning a co-operation, a liaison and a consultative role with the Broadcasting Council in which all elements of the system would play a part and, we hope, would play a part for the benefit of the entire system. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
The Government rejects the amendment moved by the Opposition. It is quite unnecessary. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  apparently wants to spell out in great detail what the responsibilities of the Council ought to be, and to add considerably to the proposed representation on the Broadcasting Council. He has not explained satisfactorily to me- not that I want to encourage him to do so- why he wants to have a representative of the Australia Council, of the Australian Film and Television School and of the Schools Commission on the Council. 
What I hope the Opposition accepts, as does the industry, is that the Government sees a very real role for this Broadcasting Council. It does not see it to the extent that the Opposition sees it. It certainly does not see it to the extent that there should be additional and added expenditure on a number of part time members and yet another full time member. One full time chairman is, I think, specified in the amendment and no doubt the Opposition will have in mind a secretariat, further growth in the bureaucracy and further growth in expenditure. What the Government looks to in this Council is for representatives of all sectors of the system, whether they be from public or commercial broadcasting, from the department and from the community- certainly by the appointment of an independent chairmanto come together not only to comment upon Government planning and Government decisions but also to initiate their own action and through liaison and, in a consultative and advisory capacity, to be of assistance to the development and conduct of the overall system. 
There is no need to have a grand committee to do that. I assure the Opposition that the composition of the board has not yet been finalised. I have indicated that the Government is thinking in terms of 2 members each from public broadcasting, commercial broadcasting and the ABC; 2 from the Department and 1 independent  chairman.  I see the role of the independent  chairman  as quite critical in this particular initiative. However, that matter has not been finally resolved other than to say that it is important- and I agree with the honourable member for Maribyrnongthat there is a balance so that the Council reflects the overall view of the industry and of the community. This can be done quite easily by regulation. There is no need for this amendment. It will make the Council larger, more of a burden on the Government and will cause additional expenditure. I cannot see in any way that it would add any additional competence to the administration of broadcasting. The Government therefore rejects the amendment. I repeat that whilst this is not a statutory body and it does not have executive power, the Government sees it as carrying out a vital role in the consultative and advisory process. 
I listened very intently to the remarks of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I say to him that I was not ridiculing the suggestion that he put up nor do I wish in any way to bury such a council in the commercial sector. That would be very undesirable. I cannot see the need to spell out in legislative form the representation which the Labor Party may have. Perhaps we may want to be flexible and look at the possibility of having more representatives from the community. I concede to the honourable member for Maribyrnong that he has a valid point. It is something that we can look at. We cannot accept the amendment. I would not want to spell out in legislative form the representatives to come from the Australian Council and other organisations. This might imply that the Broadcasting Council has some say in programming content. Let me assure the honourable member that this is an area which is consultative. There is no need for us to be rigid about it. The flexibility will be covered by regulation. I will take into account the comments made by the honourable member. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 16 agreed to. 
Clause 17. 
16) A person holding office as a Commissioner immediately before the commencing day ceases so to hold office on that day, but is eligible for re-appointment, including appointment under section 1 8 of this Act, as a Commissioner in accordance with the Principal Act as amended by this Act. 

Omit sub-clause (16), substitute the following sub-clauses: "(16) A person who, immediately before the commencing day, held office as a Commissioner, as the  Chairman  of the Commission or as the Vice-Chairman of the Commission for a term expiring after that day continues, subject to section 37 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, to hold office for the remainder of that term. "( 1 6A) On or as soon as practicable after the commencing day, the Governor-General may, in respect of a State, by writing under his hand, declare that a specified person referred to in sub-section (16) who is ordinarily resident in that State is to be deemed to be a Commissioner appointed in respect of that State by virtue of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 31 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act and to have been ordinarily resident in that State at the time of his appointment and, for the purposes of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, the person specified in the declaration shall be deemed to be a Commissioner so appointed and to have been so resident". 
The Government is concerned firstly about ensuring the position and continuation in office of commissioners and, secondly, that it will be able to deem certain commissioners to be commissioners appointed in respect of States. When this Bill is enacted we will be able to specify certain commissioners from each State. It is really a machinery matter flowing on from the basic thrust of the Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill and postponed clause 3- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
For the information of honourable members I present a discussion paper entitled  A Natural Disaster Insurance Scheme for Australia.  I seek leave to make a short statement relating to that matter. 
The facts that the honourable member has stated are perfectly correct. I know that an application went before the Australian Broadcasting Control Board I think 2 days ago. Originally there were 3 applicants for this translator. I understand that two withdrew. I expect to have a report from the Board very shortly. I will make a decision very promptly as soon as I get it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)(a)Yes,(b)Yes,(c)Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are more than 5700 exchanges throughout Australia and Telecom Australia is not able to readily provide statistics individually for each district, but has supplied in the following table information in respect of (a) metropolitan and (b) country regions in each state. Should the honourable member have a particular district in mind, I would be pleased to obtain the desired information for that district. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes- in fact the medium frequency (AM) station, located at Djakarta, is already in operation. 
Papua New Guinea has plans to establish two medium frequency (AM) broadcasting stations at Lae, each with a power of 100 000 watts, but no dates for the commissioning of these stations have yet been set, so far as Australia is aware. It would not be appropriate to apply the term 'ultra high powered ' to these stations, but rather ' high powered '. 
The stations in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea, mentioned in (1) and (2) are included in the Plan forming part of a Broadcasting Agreement adopted at a Regional Administrative Broadcasting Conference held, under the auspices of the International Telecommunication Union, in 
Geneva in October-November 1975, and at which Australia was represented. 
Investment Allowance: Effect in Employment (Question No. 1414) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It is estimated that the installation cost at the customer's premises would be over $40 and the annual maintenance cost would be about $ 12 per annum. 
The private telemeter is designed primarily to assist the householder or small businessman who desires to keep a check on the use made of his service. For this reason, the charges for the private unit have been set as low as practicable The current charge is: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
No. The guidelines are intended to enable all listeners and viewers to have some idea as to the content and nature of the matter being transmitted in languages other than English. 
The Board recently decided to vary the guidelines to include a positive recommendation to stations to undertake programs to cater for the special needs of ethnic communities. The guidelines now read: 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) The South West Sydney Regional Social Development Council Ltd indicated, in July 1 97S, its interest in obtaining a licence for a community access radio station. 
Approval was given to the Southern Media Centre Community Radio Group, to conduct frequency modulation test transmissions for the period 26-28 November 1 976. 
An important new provision in the Bill for an Act to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 is one which will permit the licensing of public broadcasting and television stations. 
The honourable member will appreciate it would be inappropriate for me to take any action concerning the licensing of public broadcasting and television stations until the legislation has been enacted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia is unable to readily provide costs for individual districts but the approximate total annual costs are: 
Melbourne-$680,000 
Sydney-$820,0O0 
ABC Regional Radio (Question No. 1493) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most significant changes were made with the introduction of summer time on 31 October. Evening programs are now essentially the same as provided on the metropolitan service radio 2. The mid-evening news bulletin has been moved from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. (8.30 and 9.30 p.m. respectively in South Australia). 
The Sunday morning program 'Australia All Over' (7 a.m. in New South Wales, 6.30 a.m. in South Australia) which is exclusive to the regional networks, has been extended by thirty minutes. 
Although these changes resulted in economies, they were not primarily made for budgetary reasons. 
No further changes are planned at present. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 June 1976. 
The technical requirements were prepared jointly by officers from the Automotive Plant and Transport Workshops Production Section, General Works Branch, Engineering Department, Telecom Australia. 
Based on Commission experience the specification for 8 of the 9 items included in the schedule was written around 3M Controltac', as this material features positionable adhesive. The schedule called for base material to be similar or equal to 3M Controltac The schedule clearly stated in both paragraphs 1.9 and 2.3 ( 1 ) a to c that alternative materials would be considered. It was expected that a number of tenderers would offer material other than 3M Controltac Full testing of all materials offered would then be at that stage conducted under identical conditions. 
No. 
Yes-One tenderer informed the Chief Manager Supply that in his opinion 3M Controltac would not meet Telecoms quality requirements. 
Tenders closed on 24 June 1976 and about that date the tenderer referred to in (5) above contacted the Chief manager Supply who arranged for a Telecom Engineer to visit the tenderer's premises on 6 July, and discussed the suitability of 3M Controltac for use intended by Telecom. While no tests were conducted at this stage an investigation took place. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
No contracts have been placed for 3M Controltac material. 
No-Suitable formal tenders were received. The tender schedule provided for tenderers to offer material other than 3M Controltac and seven tenderers did offer alternative materials. 
No-(See 9 above) 
Contracts have been arranged for 8 of the 9 items included in the schedule with the following companies: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Postal and Telecommunications Department and the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Foreign Affairs, the Treasury and Overseas Trade. In addition the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission are represented. 
To review the operations and needs of Radio Australia in the light of the recommendations of the Waller Report and the Green Report. 
5 November 1976. 
10 December 1976. 
Broadcasting: Station 2JJ (Question No. 1597) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Following complaints to the ABC, senior radio executives of the Commission listened to the segment and found it unsuitable for broadcasting. 
) The announcer responsible for using the recording was immediately suspended and subsequently dismissed. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) According to figures available to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, total revenue received by commercial television stations during the financial year 1974-75 is $136,815,992. The total revenue for the financial year 1975-76 is not available to the Board as annual financial results from all stations are not yet due under the terms of the relevant legislation. 
Television stations are not required to submit details of these items to the Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
1 ) The posting boxes outside Parliament House provide for after hours mail clearances when Parliament House Post Office staff are not on duty, and also provide an early morning clearance of Priority Paid mail for same day delivery to most capital cities on weekdays. 
Posting boxes inside Parliament House are cleared by Parliament House Post Office staff when on duty and in accordance with the arrangements notified on the boxes. 
The Parliament House Post Office is open during Parliamentary sessions from 9 am until half an hour after the last House to rise has adjourned. When Parliament is in recess, normal post office hours are observed. 
The nearest post office providing full postal facilities is located less than 400 metres from Parliament House in Government Offices, East Block, Queen Victoria Terrace, Barton. 
The posting boxes outside Parliament House are one of the standard designs and are painted the standard red colour. When they were originally installed, they were set back partly into a hedge, but this hedge has since been cut down. Australia Post is examining whether a box could be specially designed which would suit better its surroundings. 
Legal advice is that posting boxes are not subject to the provisions of the Parliament Act 1974. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) (a) $25m, (b) $981,853 and (c) $6,307,669. 
(a) 10 per cent, (b) 6.9 per cent and (c) 73.6 per cent. 
The material purchased from overseas sources is almost entirely of a type not manufactured in Australia. Only clearly identifiable purchases which could have been supplied from Australian sources comprise 0.83 per cent of the Postal Commission total, and these werebought on the basis of best value, after allowing for notional import duty, in accordance with government policy then existing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of staff provided solely or primarily to receive telegrams by telephone in each capital city between 12 midnight and 7 a.m. is as follows: 
Sydney- 12 midnight-6 a.m.1; 6 a.m.- 7 a.m. 3. 
Melbourne- 12 midnight- 1 a.m. 2; 1 a.m.-6 a.m. 1; 6 a.m.- 7 a.m. 2. 
Brisbane- 12 midnight-6 a.m. 1; 6 a.m.-7a.m. 2. 
Adelaide- 12 midnight-5.30 a.m. 1; 5.30 a.m.-7 a.m. 2. 
Perth- 12 midnight-6 a.m. 1; 6 a.m.-6.30 a.m. 2; 6.30 a.m.- 7 a.m. 4. 
Hobart- 12 midnight-7 a.m. None. 
In Sydney and Melbourne the staffs shown are rostered solely for phonogram duties. Those in Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth also perform other telegraph duties. Except at the Hobart Chief Telegraph Office where only one officer is on duty during the period concerned, officers normally rostered for other telegraph duties are available to provide additional phonogram assistance, if required. 
and (3) In Sydney, one operator only has been rostered for full-time phonogram duties between 12 midnight and 6 a.m. for at least the past 30 years. Until recently 4 operators were provided between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. on weekdays, but as a review showed this level of staffing to be in excess of traffic requirements, the number was reduced to 3 from 1 1 October last. On Saturdays and Sundays between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. the normal staff is 2. 
and (5) The Commission has not received any complaints from staff members regarding the level of phonogram staffing provided. Regular service quality control checks taken between 12 midnight and 7 a.m. in Sydney indicate that a reasonable standard of service is being maintained, with the majority of calls being answered within 1 5 seconds. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
to (6) Not applicable. 
-I was rather surprised to read the Press statement attributed to 

 Mr Kennedy. I have discovered that his statement was misinterpreted by some sections of the media. I am told that the  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission in a Press announcement said that there would be no postal increases this financial year. Some sections of the Press decided to interpret that as meaning that there would be increases next financial year. It also ought to be stated that the  Chairman  of the Australian Postal Commission and the  Chairman  of the Australian Telecommunications Commission can make recommendations as to basic charges but the decision on basic charges is for myself after, of course, consultation with the Cabinet. 
-I would suggest that members of the Opposition do not interject because their record in this area is not very good. In the 3-year period in which they were in office, they permitted the postage charge to rise from 7c to 10c to 1 8c. In that same period they permitted basic telephone call charges to rise from 4c to 6c to 9c. That is the sort of problem we inherited from the Opposition. Under this Government basic charges have been held for 18 months. Any proposal about increasing these charges will be considered very carefully by this Government because we realise the inflationary effect they have upon the community. 
-I did not state on television that the figures would be announced this week. I said that my understanding was that they would be out before the end of this week and I think I may have said 'on Thursday'. I only repeat what the Treasurer has said- that the announcement of these figures is a matter for the Statistician who holds a statutory authority. In no way was I indicating that I knew or had any idea when they were coming out. It was my understanding that they were expected this week. 
-I will have another look today at the question on notice and I will ascertain whether it is possible to give the honourable member an answer before the end of this week. It would be improper for me to comment on the substance of the question until I give him a written answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) For some time Telecom Australia passed on messages received on Outpost Radio in Darwin which purported to emanate from Fretilin forces in East Timor. These messages could not be vouched for as authentic and addressess were notified of this by Telecom. The Government has asked Telecom to cease passing on these unauthenticated messages. 
and (3) The issues raised in these questions are not matters included in my responsibilities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention was drawn to suggested tapping of Parliamentarians' telephones when the honourable member addressed a similar question to the Minister for Administrative Services. 
I have not received any such complaints. It is my understanding, however, that Commonwealth officers working in sensitive areas are advised that the telephone system is not necessarily secure against interception and that other means should be used to convey classified information. 
A variety of devices can be used to tap a telephone conversation, ranging from ordinary headphones or some form of telephone instrument, to quite sophisticated electronic equipment including specially designed radio fre- quency units. The latter devices would be quite hard to detect 
Telephone conversations may be tapped by connecting monitoring devices directly or indirectly to: the telephone instrument the telephone cable wires which connect the telephone instrument to the telephone exchange, or the switching devices used in telephone exchanges to establish telephone calls. 
Special security arrangements apply to prevent unauthorised access to the PABX at Parliament House. 
Whenever questions arise of a similar nature to that put to the Minister for Administrative Services, it is the usual practice to check all Telecom equipment physically to ensure monitoring devices are not in use. As far as Telecom can determine no interference or tapping is taking place at Parliament House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Telecom Australia advises me that frequent approaches are made to the Commission by various groups in the community, such as Surf Lifesaving Clubs, for the waiver or reduction of the normal charges for telephone service. Consequently if any action were taken to discriminate in favour of one organisation, this would make it very difficult to decline extending similar preferential treatment to other groups which may claim entitlement to concessional rates. As a result, the stage would ultimately be reached where it would be quite impracticable to determine just where discrimination should end. 
In the circumstances it would not be practicable for Telecom Australia to waive or reduce telephone rental charges for Surf Lifesaving Clubs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) At the present time there is no Citizens Band Radio Service authorised in Australia. However, a discussion paper has recently been prepared by my Department, setting out the advantages and disadvantages of introducing such a service in Australia. This paper has been made available for public discussion. A decision in the matter will be taken in the light of the response to the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The number of telephone services in each capital city telephone district at 30 June 1976, the approximate land area within each district and the approximate radial distance of the district boundary from the GPO in the respective capital cities are shown in the following table: 
The exchanges added to each of the districts in question since their establishment in 1960 and their radial distance from the GPO are as follows: 
-I have seen the Press reports of the arrangements that Channel 9, the Packer network, has entered into with regard to the 1977 cricket series. I want to indicate quite clearly that I would be concerned if there were not an Australia-wide coverage of such a test series. I find it difficult, with the limited knowledge that I have today of this matter, to believe that that is going to be possible. What the honourable member says about the ABC traditionally having this facility to broadcast such events is perfectly correct. I inform the honourable member that the ABC was negotiating on this matter and had offered a fee. I am informed that before it had an opportunity to reconsider whether it would increase that fee an agreement was entered into with the Channel 9 network. It is not fair of the honourable member to suggest that reductions in the expenditure of the ABC in any way had any impact at all on those negotiations. I repeat that die ABC was negotiating in the usual way and was denied, so I am informed, the opportunity of reconsidering the figure that was involved. 
I simply say that the matter has come to my attention only in the last day or two. I will be looking at it more closely. It is quite improper to suggest that what has happened in any way represents a sponsorship of the Packer interests, or Channel 9 or any other commercial interests. What I will be concerned about- the honourable member will see me taking steps to do what I can- is to ensure that the Australian public is not disadvantaged in any way as regards enjoying something that they have traditionally enjoyed. 

In replying to part 2 (d) of this question  (Hansard,  page 3676, 9 December 1976) in respect to the real total costs including overheads in relaying ABC news broadcasts to certain radio stations I referred to the costs incurred by the Australian Broadcasting Commission itself. I now wish to add that the stations listed are liable not only for the fees paid under contract to the ABC but also in taking the broadcasts by landline are subject to charges for the hire of these lines from Telecom Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is intended to publish a detailed syllabus for the Novice Amateur Operator's Certificate of Proficiency examination as soon as the staffing situation within my Department makes this practicable. However, in the meantime a sample paper for the theory section of this examination has been prepared and copies are available from my Department upon request. 
No. 
The procedures for all examinations conducted by my Department are subject to a continuous review and are varied as considered desirable to meet particular requirements. As from the November 1976 examination, the regulations section of the novice Amateur Operator's Certificate of Proficiency examination has been set as a multiple question type examination. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Many of the officers now responsible for such examinations have been engaged on such duties for periods even longer than 5 years. However, certain changes in personnel have occurred during this period. 
Basically, the qualifications specified by the Public Service Board for appointment to such positions. These consist of a certificate or diploma, granted by a technical college or equivalent institution, in electronics, or such other qualifications as are accepted as being equivalent by the Public Service Board. 
Not as such, however, the officers concerned have had extensive specialised experience in their particular field. Moreover they work in consultation with the various colleges involved in training students for such examinations and they have available to them the various opinions and recommendations made by such educational institutions in regard to such examinations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are currently no plans for the improvement or extension of national television service to the Shires in question. The greater part of the Shire of Bruce Rock should receive an adequate service from national station ABCW-4 and Esperance and its immediate environs are served by national station ABEW- 10. 
Under the new arrangements for the administration of broadcasting, Government policy regarding the future of broadcasting and television services will come under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission has informed me that he is not a director of or a consultant to any public company. He is a director of a small private family company. 
No.  Mr Norgard,  like all members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, is bound by the provisions of section 38 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942. 
Final Report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry (Question No. 2003) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present guidelines for children's television programs are those which were drawn up by the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board. These were published by the Board in a booklet entitled 'Television Program Standards' in which standards relating to children's television programs may be found in paragraphs 1 1 to 16. These standards are now administered by the Austrlian Broadcasting Tribunal and apply specifically to commercial stations. However, the Australian Broadcasting Commission also gives voluntary recognition to them as guidelines for the production and presentation of ABC programs. 
A Commitee set up by the Board in 1971 (the Children's Television Advisory Committee) produced a report entitled Production Guidelines for Children's Television Programs'. This report was published with the intent of providing broadcasters and television production companies with guidelines in the production of better children 's programs. 
The Minister has directed the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to hold an inquiry into the extent to which broadcasters should be responsible for the setting and maintaining standards in the production, presentation and content of programs with particular reference to programs directed to chilren and family audiences. 
The Tribunal will provide the Minister with a full report of the inquiry and its recommendations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a press statement dated 9 December 1976 the Australian Broadcasting Commission accepted the Government's invitation to assume responsibility for ethnic radio, subject to the availability of adequate funds. 
As negotiations with the Treasurer are still proceeding, the precise amount involved has yet to be determined. 
The likely result for the Australian Telecommunications Commission for the full financial year will probably be a surplus of about $ 1 50m. If one wants to gear that to the capital invested, one is talking about a return of just below 3 per cent. I know that a lot of people say that Telecom ought not be looked at as if it were a business undertaking; it is really part of the government. The Commission has a responsibility to administer its affairs in accordance with the Act. It has to fund at least SO per cent of its capital requirements out of internal revenue. This year the capital requirements of Telecom are about $9l0m. Therefore it must find more than $450m out of internal revenue. All the surplus is allocated to the extension of the network and the creation of facilities for communication for Australians. The Australian community owns Telecom. Any surplus goes back for the benefit of the Australian community. Of course the Government is concerned about costs in rural areas. So is the Commission. The honourable member may know that a committee of Government members and I have had substantial discussions with Telecom. We have taken a number of initiatives to try to improve the service and to reduce costs. I would like him to know that, as a policy attitude, the Telecommunications Commission is determined to try to improve services and to reduce wherever possible costs throughout the Australian rural community. 
-I am aware of the substantial number of petitions that have come to the Parliament from people who are interested in citizen band radio. I thank the honourable member for Canberra for accepting some on my behalf last weekend. I have not directed in any way, nor has the head of my Department directed in any way, that there should be a step-up of so-called raids against people using this equipment; but those people who break the law have to realise that when they do so the processes of the law must take place. I take the opportunity to make a few comments on this general matter, because it is now of growing interest to honourable members on both sides of the Parliament. I hope that honourable members accept that it is a very complex matter. Anybody who has taken a few moments to look at it will understand that. The Secretary of the Department has been overseas and has studied the matter, particularly in the United States of America. I have had an officer of the Department especially looking at this matter for four or five months now. Almost 2 months ago I released a paper setting out the problems and possible options and asking members of the Australian community to let me have their views in order that I could proceed to make a submission to the Government. The interesting point is that the response to that request has been very poor. There have been a lot of noise and a lot of protests, but even the National Citizens Radio Association- the body which presumably speaks for operators of this equipment in Australia- has not yet made a submission to me. Its representatives are to see me tonight. I hope that I will have their views in order that I can make up my mind quickly, make a submission to the Cabinet within the next few weeks and have the decision announced to the Parliament not long after that. 
-I am not aware of any information which would suggest to me or anybody else that the appointment of  Mr Gyngell  was other than proper in all respects. I am aware of some occurrence this morning in Tasmania and my understanding is that  Mr Gyngell  will be making a statement this afternoon on that matter. I have not deliberately held up a reply to the Leader of the Opposition. I have been making sure that I have all the facts. I repeat that the appointment of  Mr Gyngell  was one of a person with an immense background and experience in the broadcasting industry. I believe his chairmanship will bring a sense of initiative and enterprise. No information that I had or now have suggests in any way that it was other than a proper appointment. 
-I give the honourable member for Parramatta an assurance that this question of providing a radio licence for that part of suburban Sydney and New South Wales to which he referred is presently under review. As the House knows, I decided not to accept a recommendation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to issue a licence to Prospect Broadcasters Pty Ltd. 
-If the honourable member wants to know, I suggest that he reads a Press release which I made on about 10 March. I want to add nothing to it. I simply said that, having looked at the recommendation, I had reached a decision not to accept it. There have been substantial changes in the area and in the development of the area generally. I have asked the Postal and Telecommunications Department to take a survey of it and to make certain facts available to me. Then I will reach the decision about which the honourable member for Parramatta has asked me a question. However, it ought to be said that in such a developing area radio broadcasting licences will need to be given, but it is important that when they are given they serve in a useful and purposeful way. 
The contract referred to by the honourable member for Deakin was a substantial one. Because of its size and nature it was held up by me for some weeks while it went under intensive study. There has been a change in the traditional suppliers to the Australian Telecommunications Commission from the German company to a French company. I have looked at the matter very closely. Telecom has helped in every way and has given me all the information which I have asked for. There is a price advantage- not a large onewhich rests with the French company. With regard to local content and therefore employment opportunities there is little difference between the two. The German company as of now has a greater capacity for local employment. Over a period the employment opportunities will be very much the same. Therefore, first of all with regard to price, there was an advantage in the change. Secondly, with regard to local content and employment, there was little impact over the time. The main reason for my accepting the advice of the Telecommunications Commission lay in a technical area. I have here a statement from Telecom with regard to the technical advantages. I wonder whether the Leader of the Opposition would be prepared to allow me to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)20 December 1976. 
) On the basis that this pan of the question relates to the requirement set forth in section 9 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942; 
None 

 Mr Gyngell 's wife and children held shares in Warooka Pty Ltd as follows- 9 per cent wife, 30 per cent each of three children, 1 per cent by the company secretary. 
See answer to (2). 
Devaluation: Profit from Money Transfers 
The House may remember that I informed honourable membersI think it was last week- that I am anxious to get the public to respond to the paper that has been published with regard to citizen band radio. Anybody who writes to me has my complete assurance that such information as he provides will not be used in any way to harass those people using the equipment. What I want to do is get comments from people, preferably by the end of this month, so that I can formulate my submission to Cabinet in the next 2 or 3 weeks. As to the question of the paper being available, I have checked with the Department. I find that there has been some delay m making it available, and I have asked the Department to do everything possible to ensure that people who request this paper can get it expeditiously. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission will be taking over responsibility for ethnic radio. It has been necessary for discussions to be held between the Australian Broadcasting Commission, ethnic communities and the department which is presently funding ethnic radio to ensure that the takeover is carried out properly. My latest information is that this will occur from 1 July. In the meantime adequate funds are being made available through my Department to keep the ethnic radio broadcasting system open. I have not finalised discussions with the Treasurer as to the extra funding that will be made available to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for this added responsibility. As to the question of the National Ethnic Advisory Council, I did not make that announcement. That responsibility rests with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) One hundred and fifty-eight. 
Eighty-four. 
Fifty-six. 
Yes, unless otherwise recommended by the AttorneyGeneral 's Department. 
Not applicable. 
Air Travel by Members of Parliament (Question No. 105) 
-I was not aware of the exact figures which the honourable member for Barker has quoted. I will study them carefully. I look forward to that exercise. I inform the honourable member and the House generally that the policy of the Australian Telecommunications Commission is to improve services to rural communities. Many of the plans for this year, which will be to increase the number of automatic exchanges, will assist the great bulk of people in the rural community. They will advantage them. Only a very limited number of people will be disadvantaged. We have increased the distance in respect of which linkage to these automatic exchanges is free. I am aware of the tremendous cost to people whose properties are fairly distant. It will not be possible for these people to afford, under present technology, linkage to an automatic telephone system. We are looking to see whether we can devise a new system. Members of the National Country Party from Queensland will know that I looked at the matter closely in the electorates of Kennedy, Leichhardt and Dawson only 3 or 4 weeks ago. We will see whether it is possible to improve facilities to far-flung rural areas without adding enormously to the costs which I realise that they cannot now afford to carry. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Insurance Act 1973- to strengthen its administrative machinery and to remove a number of anomalies. The Bill will up-date certain provisions and provide for the transfer of the appeals jurisdiction of the Insurance Tribunal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Since the Insurance Act came into full operation on I August 1974, the Insurance Commissioner has been processing applications from insurers seeking authority to carry on insurance business in Australia. I am pleased to be able to say that the task of processing these applications is nearing completion. The Commissioner has gained a great deal of practical experience in the supervision of insurance companies. As a direct result, a number of weaknesses and anomalies in the legislation has become apparent. This Bill will remedy these defects and the opportunity is being taken to improve the Act in other ways. 
There are 6 specific points that I should mention. First, honourable members will be aware of the debate within and outside the accounting profession on the treatment of future tax benefits in the accounts of companies. The Government wishes to put this matter beyond doubt so far as the Insurance Act is concerned. The Bill provides for the specific exclusion of such contingent benefits from an insurer's assets for the purposes of calculating its margin of solvency under the Act. Secondly, provision has also been made to clarify the situation with regard to the inclusion of guarantees in an insurer's assets for solvency purposes. 
Thirdly, it is proposed that insurance companies be able to omit from the calculation of their annual premium income for purposes of the Act amounts they have collected for onward transmission to the States or Territories in the form of fire brigade levies, stamp duties and other similar charges. 
Fourthly, under the Act as it now stands, an insurer that has been refused an authority to carry on business cannot be properly directed as to the way it should run-off commitments previously entered into. It is now proposed to tighten this aspect of the Act by empowering the Treasurer to give directions to such an insurer in relation to the meeting of commitments under contracts of insurance previously entered into. 
Fifthly, it has become apparent that a considerable amount of insurance is being sent to unauthorised insurers overseas through agents in Australia. Section 1 13 of the existing Act, which has not yet been proclaimed, prohibits such a practice. Following consultation with the industry, we have decided to allow exemptions from this prohibition, so as to increase the flexibility of the provision. The amendments make provision to obtain more information on business going to the unauthorised market overseas. The amendments also require those sending business to the overseas market on behalf of Australian clients to notify those clients that they have insurance cover which is outside the supervision of the Australian Act. I add that neither the existing legislation nor the proposed amendments to it unduly restricts the freedom of individuals or companies in Australia to obtain insurance cover overseas. The legislation regulates the precise way in which this can be done consistent with the general intent of the Act. 
Sixthly, it is proposed to transfer the responsibility for having appeals under the Insurance Act from the Insurance Tribunal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
I should also mention one matter in respect of which we have decided not to amend either the Insurance Act 1973 or the Life Insurance Act 1945. The Labor Government announced in 1973 that it would introduce amendments under which proposals relating to the establishment of new insurance companies would be examined on the basis of national interest criteria. Arrangements to achieve that have since applied on an administrative basis without the backing of legislation. This matter has recently been reviewed in depth. We have concluded that these arrangements are unnecessary having regard to the effectiveness of existing legislation designed to ensure the financial soundness of insurance companies. I emphasise, however, that proposals by overseas interests will continue to be subject to examination under the Government's foreign investment policy. 
The various amendments effected by this Bill have been developed in close consultation with the general insurance industry. Although they are generally more of a machinery than a policy nature we believe that they will contribute in a significant way to the effective supervision of the industry. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Life Insurance Act 1945. More specifically the Bill will up-date and improve the existing supervisory machinery established by the Act, to take account of changes in money values and business practices. It will facilitate appeals against administrative decisions. It will bring the Act into line with the Government's policy of divesting the High Court of its original jurisdiction under Commonwealth statutes and conferring it on other appropriate courts. 
The Life Insurance Act since its introduction over 31 years ago has been singularly successful in preventing failures among life insurance companies in Australia. It has brought about a degree of stability in the industry which has few rivals anywhere else in the world. However, changing conditions, changing forms of policies and changing public demand and expectations have made it desirable to up-date some areas of the legislation. At the same time new problems have arisen which are not covered in the Act at all. With this in mind, the Government views the current set of proposed amendments to the Life Insurance Act as a forerunner to a much wider review to determine what kind of supervisory legislation is best suited to Australia's life insurance industry in the future. 
It is proposed to strengthen the supervision over registered life insurers. The Bill requires them to seek permission from the Life Insurance Commissioner before they commence a form of business other than life or general insurance. However, the Commissioner will not be able to refuse an insurer permission to enter a noninsurance area unless he is satisfied that such entry would be to the detriment of existing and prospective policy owners. 
The existing legislation provides that a life insurance company shall not invest directly or indirectly in another such company. This is obviously unworkable as almost all companies listed on the stock exchange would have some link with a life insurer merely because life insurers are large investors in shares. It is proposed to relax this particular provision. New safeguards will, however, enable the Life Insurance Commissioner to oversight certain investment outlets where the investments of particular kinds exceed specified limits. Investments in companies related to life insurance companies, mutual funds and unit trusts will come under this provision. 
The Bill also provides for an insurer to have a prospectus seeking investment in its debentures approved by the Life Insurance Commissioner before the debenture issue can be made. This is consistent with the existing provision which requires approval of the Commissioner of an insurer's share prospectus before issue. Provision has also been made to have the Commissioner fully informed when a take-over is made for a registered life insurance company. 
To increase the effectiveness of the Commissioner's supervision and generally speed up the collection of data, it is proposed to shorten the period a company has in which to lodge returns. In future balance-sheets and other financial returns will be required 5 months after the close of its financial year. The period for the submission of the actuarial abstract and statement will be shortened to 6 months. 
Provision has been made for the abolition of the requirement for a life insurance company to lodge and maintain a deposit with the Treasurer. The necessity for authorised general insurers under the Insurance Act to lodge and maintain deposits has been abolished. It has been found, both here and overseas, that the maintenance of deposits has served little or no practical purpose because of changes in money values. 
Of considerable benefit to policy owners and their dependants are the proposals to amend money values referred to in a number of sections of the Act and to allow for the values to be altered by regulation in the future. I mention as a particular example the proposal that probate or administration on a policy need not be applied for until the total value reaches $6,000. The current amount is $2,000. 
Clause 36 in the Bill has the effect of allowing the Fourth Schedule to the Act to be changed by regulation. This will enable greater flexibility in periods of changes in interest rates and has significant implications in terms of increased benefits to policy owners. I might explain that the purpose of the Fourth Schedule to the Act is to ensure that life companies calculate the liabilities that will accrue under policies in the future and the funds that will be available to meet them in an actuarially sound way. At present, the basis is based on interest rates and other factors applying many years ago. It is restricting companies in the benefits they can provide. The necessity to liberalise the minimum valuations basis in the Fourth Schedule and the concern felt in the industry that changes be made as soon as possible are fully appreciated by the Government. Priority will be given to drafting the necessary regulations. 
It is proposed to transfer the responsibility for the hearing of certain appeals under the Life Insurance Act from the High Court to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. In addition, the number of administrative acts of the Life Insurance Commissioner against which an appeal can be lodged has been increased. The opportunity has been taken to divest the High Court of its original jurisdiction under the Act and to transfer that jurisdiction to other appropriate courts. There are also a number of formal amendments which will bring the Act into line with current drafting practices. 
Because of the highly technical nature of life insurance and the effect any amendments to the Act are likely to have on the industry and policy owners, the amendments effected by this Bill have been developed in close consultation with the life insurance industry. We are confident that these amendments, although only a beginning to the major task of modernising the Life Insurance Act, will bring considerable benefits to life insurance as a whole. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Bruce Gyngell (Chairman); James Henry Martin Oswin (Vice-Chairman);  (Mrs) Janet Strickland, (b)  There are no pan-time members on the Tribunal. 
I am informed that members of the Tribunal have no direct or indirect interest in any broadcast or television licence or Company in Australia. 
) Not applicable- see answer to Question 2. 
The attached table provides the information requested by the honourable member in respect of the latest full year for which complete television programming statistics are available. I must point out that the categories of programs specified in the question do not match the categories usually employed in programming statistical studies in Australia. Therefore, information relating to current affairs programs has been supplied under the heading 'news analysis' and information relating to comedy drama under the heading comedy'. Other comedy material is included under the heading 'variety'. Musical programs have been shown under the headings 'classical' (which includes serious music, opera and ballet) and 'other' (which combines popular and general). 
Programs of the national service are represented in the table by station ABV Melbourne. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Some uncertainty developed recently about whether the premises in which the existing non-official post office is conducted would continue to be available in the longer term, and tentative inquiries were made to confirm that there were reasonable prospects of obtaining suitable alternative accommodation for the office, should this be necessary. The present non-official post office at Capalaba is considered to be reasonably well located to meet needs of customers. Australia Post has no immediate plans to re-locate the facility. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Report on Credit Reporting (Question No. 309) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No mail service in the electoral division of Darling has been cut out since January 1976, and only one service has been reduced in frequency. The Bourke- Wee Toura service was reduced from twice to once weekly from 1 July 1976. 
After two tender calls, the very high cost which would have been incurred in continuing the Bourke- Wee Toura service on a twice weekly frequency was considered by Australia Post to be beyond that which could reasonably be expected after having regard, as required by section 7 of the Postal Services Act 1975, to the special needs for postal services of people who reside or carry on business outside the cities. 
When consideration is being given to alteration of a mail service, the residents concerned are informed by letter, prior to tenders being called, of the circumstances which indicate a possible change. If necessary, the letter is followed up by personal visits of an Australia Post officer to the area in which the mail service operates, to discuss the matter with the residents. In the case of the Bourke- Wee Toura service, the residents were fully informed by letter, prior to the calling of tenders and also subsequent to the acceptance of a tender for a once-weekly frequency. On neither occasion did any resident advise objection to a reduction in frequency of operation of the service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Telecom Australia after consultation with the Royal Flying Doctor Service (RFDS) recommended the reduction in charges. The reduced charges have regard to the particular circumstances of people living in more remote areas whose only form of speedy communication is by telegram. 
Not applicable. 
Telegram revenue from the Outpost Radio Service is shared between Telecom Australia and the RFDS. The loss of revenue to Telecom Australia is expected to be in the order of $ 100,000 annually. 
No. This earnings loss would be offset by earnings from the total activities of Telecom Australia. 
-I have read reports, and indeed I know, of the concern within the community about the increase in drug trafficking. I am aware of the concern of the police and indeed of governments generally here and throughout Australia. There are 2 issues in this matter: First of all there is the question of privacy with regard to the mail, and secondly- this is a very important matter- the question of community interest, public interest. The problem is being considered by the Law Reform Commission. Officers of the Australian Postal Commission have discussed it with the Law Reform Commission and have offered some advice. My understanding is that the Law Reform Commission will have some comment on this matter later in the year. I shall see whether that report can be presented at the earliest possible date, and if action is needed I am certain that it will be speedily taken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The half-year trading surplus reported by Telecom Australia is applied to help in funding the current capital program of the Commission. Under the Telecommunications Act 1975 the Commission is required to fund a minimum of 50 per cent of its capital expenditure in any year from internal sources which include the trading surplus. 
The policy in providing line plant for rural telephone services was reviewed last year when the free line plant entitlement was extended from 8 km to 12 km. Thus, those that reside beyond 12 km from the nearest exchange had their contribution payment reduced by $ 1280. Those located in the 8 to 12 km radial distance from an exchange now make no contribution at all. The contribution rate beyond the free line entitlement distance has been retained at $160 per  'A  km, although there have been substantial increases in cost since this figure was fixed in 1973. 
When the charges for Commission services are being reviewed the needs of people who reside or conduct their business in rural areas are given particular consideration. 
After a not too prompt start, a number of operators and organisations have indicated to me their attitude and submitted matters for the Government's attention when considering what legislation may be enacted. I have received a number of submissions only over the last two or three weeks. I am to see more people during the course of this week. I would be hopeful of being able to put a submission to the Cabinet within the next few weeks, and a Government decision should be taken at that time or shortly after. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ABC has negotiated an agreement with the Nine network to ensure television coverage of the test matches throughout Australia. 
The ABC has exclusive rights to televise the test matches throughout Western Australia, Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and in all nonmetropolitan areas in the other States. 
My attention was drawn to the regrettable episode that occurred in Melbourne. I am concerned, as the community would be concerned, when this sort of attack occurs. The House ought to know that vandalism of public telephones in Australia presently costs about $3m. I think the figure for Melbourne is of the order of about two-thirds of a million dollars. The honourable member asked me when these telephones are checked. They are, of course, checked automatically by the people wishing to use them. Secondly, they are checked by cleaners, coin collectors and technical staff attached to the local exchanges. Regrettably the public does not inform us quickly enough when some of these boxes are out of order. 
What are we doing about the matter? The Australian Telecommunications Commission has a new program that will be to a great extent vandal proof. The instrument itself will not be so easily subjected to vandalism and when vandalism occurs an automatic signal- a beep- will occur in the local exchange, which means that the repairs will be hastened. The exchange will be informed automatically that that telephone is out of order. It is regrettable that the incidence of vandalism has grown. Whilst we are getting this program off the ground- I regard it as a matter of some importance- the public could help us tremendously by advising us as soon as possible that telephones are out of order. 
The first comment I should like to make is that the great majority of Australians have a most adequate telephone service. Indeed there are some hundreds of new connections each week. I think the average waiting time for a telephone in most parts of Australianot in all parts but in most parts- is down to about 3 to 4 weeks. So, the first point that is worth making, I think, is that there has been a large increase in demand for telephone services and an increased capacity to supply them. 
The honourable member said that a number of people have an unsatisfactory service. That is true. A number of people, particularly in the rural parts of Australia, do have unsatisfactory service. But of the 3.7 million connections there are 130 000 manual type connectons and this year they will be reduced to 1 1 1 000 at a cost of about Sim. In addition to that, because the Telecommuncations Commission wants to improve facilities, particularly to rural people and outback Australia, it is spending a greater percentage of its funds on improving rural services. 
The second part of the question was concerned about whether we are putting too much emphasis on technology. Of course, if we are to nave improved services we have to be concerned with technology. We are looking in the long term at using satellites. As the honourable member well knows, solar energy is now being used for communications in the Northern Territory. We are looking at an interface with the Royal Flying 
Doctor Service which will help particularly the people of electorates such as that of the honourable member for Kennedy. We will link into the Flying Doctor radio service to improve facilities in outback Queensland. 
The final part of the question asked whether I could exert pressure on the Commission to stop it spending so much money on technology and more on providing services. I do not think that contradiction exists. I think spending money on technology is part of the success story of providing increased services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
About 500. 
Approximately 100 copies were provided direct in response to written requests. Another 410 requests were referred to the Australian Government Publishing Service which has responded to them. 

 Mr Gordon Barton: Proposed Airline Operations (Question No. ISO) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) Approximately 300 submissions have been received. 
I have asked for comments to be provided as soon as possible and preferably by 3 1 March 1 977. 
It is expected that the Government will consider the future of citizen band radio within 3 weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no separate panel of speakers for Notes on the News. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the ABC publication  Supplementary Information on ABC Activities 1975-76  which was issued by the Commission with its Annual Report to Parliament. Details of speakers were given on pages 20-23. 
The ABC does not delete speakers from the panel. The frequency with which a speaker broadcasts depends on his or her known expertise on a given subject and availability at the time the broadcast is required. 
The present fee for  Notes of the News  is $30. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
There is no separate panel of speakers for  News Commentary. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the ABC publication  'Supplementary Information on ABC Activities 1975/76'  which was issued by the Commission with its Annual Report to Parliament. Details of speakers were given on pages 1 7-20. 
The ABC does not 'delete' speakers from the panel. The frequency with which a speaker broadcasts depends on his or her known expertise on a given subject and availability at the time the broadcast is required. 
The present fee for  News Commentary is $25. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The ABC is not prepared to divulge the sum paid for cricket rights. It has to observe confidentially of agreements made. 
Approximately $400,000. 
The normal rule applying to public telephones is that they are to be accessible to the public. Therefore, in the main, they are on public property. But honourable members will recall a question last week concerning vandalism and the lack of service caused by it. If it is proved that there would be access to the public and that there is need, the Telecommunications Commission does not have an embargo against negotiation with private property owners on the installation of public telephones. So, the simple answer is that if there are people who have a private property in which there may be demonstrated a need for such installation we will be happy to do business with them. 
-I am aware of the problem and I am concerned about it. The honourable members for Dawson, Leichhardt, Kennedy and the Northern Territory will know well and truly that I have travelled in their electorates looking at problems concerned with television. It is a fact of life that over 90 per cent of Australians do have access to television, although that applies to only about 1 5 per cent of the land mass. The problems do not exist only in the rural areas, although they are very significant there, but also in parts of the capital cities. The honourable member for Sturt has mentioned to me a problem he has had in Adelaide in which the terrain presents difficulties with television facilities. 
The honourable member for Maranoa asked what progress has been made. Some progress has been made; I would wish more to be made. 
The Department has the matter under study. I have had a look at the program that is desirable, because this problem affects all States of Australia. As to resources, it is a question of what finance can be made available, and we have to bear in mind the budgetary restraints presently before us. There is also a problem of manpower. We need technicians and engineers if we are to have the right sort of program. Finally, the honourable member asked whether satellites were the ultimate solution. I think the answer to that question is that they are the ultimate solution, but this is something which is a fair distance away, although perhaps not as far away as some people suspect. One of the officers of my Department was overseas only a few months ago making a study of satellites. We are linking into the world system, and I hope that in the not too distant future we can use satellites as part of the solution. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
SAGEM have indicated that 43 per cent local content could be achieved by the end of 3 years and SS per cent by the end of 5 years. The 3-year figure compares favourably with the level of local content with the existing model teleprinter. 
Yes. 
The level of future orders under the agreement would be dependent upon the company meeting all conditions including a satisfactory level of local content 
Fourteen tenders were received of which eight were considered to be technically unacceptable. The prices submitted by other tenderers were higher than the price of the tender accepted. 
All six of the tenderers considered acceptable offered either local content as part of their tender or a proposal to investigate with Telecom Australia the setting up of local manufacture. 
Three aspects of delivery were considered in examining tenders: (i) commencement of delivery, (ii) rate of delivery, (iti) total quantity within the tender period. The six short list tenderers offered a wide range of variation within these three requirements. SAGEM offered acceptable delivery. Overall the SAGEM tender offered the best combination of technology, price, local content and delivery time. 
No. 
Actual labour content involved in manufacturing of modern teleprinters is significantly less than with the current model teleprinter. Although the Australian content in latter years will be higher than achieved by the previous manufacturer, the total number of people employed in the manufacture of teleprinters will be reduced. On a national basis the loss of job opportunity would be very minor. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  I present Supply Bill (No. 1) 1977-78. This Bill, together with the companion Bill, Supply Bill (No. 2) 1977-78, seeks interim appropriations for the services of the Government for the period 1 July 1977 to 30 November 1977, by which date it is expected that the Appropriation Bills forming part of the 1977-78 Budget will have been enacted. 
Supply Bill (No. 1) seeks appropriations totalling approximately $3,5 12m for the ordinary annual services of the Government. This is only $100m, or less than 3 per cent, greater than the amounts provided in Supply Act (No. 1) 1976-77 and, taking both Bills together, the increase over last year is only $27m or approximately 0.6 per cent. This reflects the Government's continuing policy of expenditure restraint. The Bill includes $ 100m for the Advance to the Treasurer, a reduction of $ 10m compared with the provision in the Supply Act (No. 1 ) 
1976- 77. 
I wish to emphasise that the Supply Bills are not to be interpreted as in any way anticipating what amounts might be included for any particular service in the 1 977-78 Budget. The provisions in them are based wholly on current expenditure levels and have no regard whatever to policy decisions to be taken in the context of next year's Budget. When the Budget is passed the appropriations in the Bill will be subsumed by the appropriations in the Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) 1977- 78. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  I present Suppy Bill (No. 2) 1977-78. This Bill seeks interim appropriations for capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services totalling, in all, approximately $745m for the period 1 July 1977 to 30 November 1977. The effect of the Government's continuing policy of expenditure restraint is reflected by the fact that this Bill seeks appropriations some $73m or 9 per cent less than those in the Supply Act (No. 2) 1976-77. The Bill includes $100m for the Advance to the Treasurer- the same amount as was provided in last year's Supply Act. As I emphasised when introducing Supply Bill (No. 1) 1977-78, the provisions in the Bill are not to be interpreted as in any way anticipating what amounts might be included in the 1977-78 Budget. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Postal and Telecommunications Department, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Finance. 
Present a paper which brings together the issues raised in the Green Report; the issues which require decisions from the Government; the options available to the Government in respect of these issues, and proposals for the handling of the report by the Government 
12 October 1976. 
It is anticipated that the report will be finalised within two weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Five. 
Eighteen. 
The ABC does not keep records as to whether speakers are office holders of political parties. 
NATO and Warsaw Pact  (Question No. 594) 
-I can give that assurance, although I want to make it perfectly clear that an Australian Broadcasting Council will be set up. However, it is desirable that we await the outcome of the result of the inquiry by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal into the question of self-regulation. I have been encouraged by the interest taken in this inquiry by the community throughout Australia. I have had to give to the  chairman  of the Broadcasting Tribunal an extension of time for reporting to the middle of July. The Government will then consider the findings of the inquiry. I hope to proceed with appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Council, which are dependent to a degree upon the result of that inquiry and the Government's decision, early in the Budget session. 
The Leader of the Opposition has asked me to table a considerable amount of information. I will look at the request. I made comments in Brisbane and Townsville about this gentleman, who I believe is a bit of a screwball. I made it perfectly clear then, and I repeat it now, that I have never met him and I never want to meet him. All I want him to do is to pay his phone bill. The Treasurer wants people to pay their taxes to enable him to get his deficit down. I want people to pay their phone bills to enable me to get the Telecom surplus up. That is my approach to the matter. I am not aware of any relationship this gentleman has had with the Federal Government; nor am I awareMr E. G. Whitlam- But Anthony and Lynch recommended him. 
The Leader of the Opposition may believe what he reads in the newspaper; that is his affair. As to the request that he has asked me to consider, of course I will consider it, and I will see how much I can do to accommodate his requirements. 
B. JOHN LTD 
Yes, I am aware of the increased and continuing interest in citizen band radio. I hope- in fact I expect- that we will get a decision on the matter within the next two to three weeks. I know I have said that before, but matters have progressed. I now have a submission going to the Government within the next day or two. I approved of it last night. We ought to understand that the reason for the delay has not been just because of my inability to make up my mind as to what I should recommend. There have been problems in getting the people involved to say what they believe. I think it is desirable when considering legislation to have the views of interested people, and they have been a little lethargic in expressing their opinions to me. I also wanted to spend a considerable amount of time talking to people. The matter is very complex, and we do not want to make the same sorts of mistakes that were made in the United States of America in the legallation of CB radio. There are, of course, very desirable elements in it. I know that a lot of Australians are wittingly or unwittingly breaking the law, and that is not a good situation. But we have to be careful that we do not arrive at any conclusion which would allow this equipment to be misused. A tremendous number of matters have to be considered, and that is why it has taken some time. A recommendation is now going to the Government, and I hope- in fact I expect- that we will get a definite decision within the next two to three weeks. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a pesonal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
No. 
This matter had not previously been drawn to my attention by any member of this House or anybody else. The honourable member has made serious allegations. The Australian Broadcasting Commission does have set standards. They closely relate to the standards laid down for the broadcasting network by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I would be just as concerned as the honourable member or anyone else if those standards were in any way lessened to an unacceptable level. I shall look very carefully at the allegations of the honourable member. I shall make the fullest inquiries concerning them. Of course I cannot give all the information for which the honourable member has asked, but I shall ascertain what it is, let him know and take whatever action I believe to be necessary. 
-I do get a considerable amount of mail expressing concern, disagreement or disapproval in relation to some ABC programs, either on television or on radio. Of course, there has always been a charge of bias on the ABC and it has not always come from one particular quarter. Every Minister who has had an overview of the ABC has had substantial mail in that regard. Is it of an increasing nature? Well, it is not of a decreasing nature. I do not bother to add up every week how many letters I get complaining about ABC programs; I have better things to do. Of course, the complaints have increasingly been about programs of a sexual nature, and that is a new element which certainly has increased. If the honourable member wishes to know, I will ascertain what is the number of complaints, with particular emphasis on the programs he mentiond 
Finally, may I say to the House that the whole question of standards of broadcasting is something in which we all have to take a tremendous interest. That is one of the reasons why the new Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is now going around the community asking for community views. In the end, the broadcasting system ought to reflect the standards of the community, and that is what the Tribunal is attempting to discern. It will submit its report to me by about the middle of July, and the Government will then consider the report with a view to improving the standards, perhaps to some degree by selfdiscipline and self-regulation which should apply right across the broadcasting system, commercial and national. Whether the national network will come within the scope is a matter yet for deliberation and decision. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Wool Tax Amendment Bills Nos 1 to 5 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-I most certainly can give the honourable member some hope in this regard. As he well knows from my visits to his electorate and to the electorates of other members who represent rural areas, I have been concerned about providing television facilities for the rural parts of Australia as quickly as possible. This problem of providing facilities for probably 5 per cent of the community is not restricted to rural areas alone. There are problems in some capital cities as well. Now there is a program. The implementation of that program will be dependent upon what funds can be made available in the Budget and also upon what engineering resources are available for the implementation of the program when a decision has been reached. 
As to the particular policy at the present time, if a rural community or a mining organisation wants to fund the expenditure now, the program can be accelerated. That is not to say that the Government will not be able to provide that program as we are gradually able to implement it. I say finally, because I believe there might be some misunderstanding of the Government's policy with regard to communication services throughout Australia, that it is a conscious decision of this Government which is being implemented in my Department and in the CommissionsI am talking now of the Postal Commission and the Telecommunication Commissionto give a greater percentage of funds for the provision of improved services throughout rural Australia. Given a little bit of patience, I am quite certain that all my friends who represent rural areas will see that policy come to fruition. 
The question of providing television viewing facilities in areas, including areas within the honourable member's electorate, is continually being studied. I cannot be specific as to the actual time but I can indicate to the honourable member that there is an acceleration in deciding on the son of program that is necessary to provide the earliest possible solution to problems in rural and outback Australia. I know that in the honourable member's electorate there are significant problems in more than one district. This is a matter which is presently having the attention of the Department and myself. It is an electorate in which I believe and hope that there will be government action before too long. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The format of night program schedules of ABC television has not changed recently. 
Not applicable. 
There is a marked decline in audience numbers after 10.30 p.m. 
Specialist programs are frequently scheduled by the ABC towards the end of daily transmissions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
To prevent any further illegal use of the equipment such as has been alleged and to facilitate the presentation of the equipment as evidence in any subsequent legal action arising out of the incident. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In television, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has discontinued the public affairs program ' State of the Nation ', a weekly program of 40 minutes duration which had been resumed after a previous discontinuation. It has also discontinued 'Today at One', a 30-minute weekday program in South Australia. Expenditure on 'This Day Tonight' and Four Corners' has been reduced. The coverage of minor sports has been curtailed, while several projected television drama productions have been postponed. 
In radio, separate evening programs for the various stations of ABC Radio 1 have been discontinued; these are now uniform for all capital cities. In the evening, Radio 3 now transmits the programs of Radio 2. Regional sporting services have been reduced. Recess periods over the Christmas period have been extended. The number of contract correspondents overseas and the allocation of funds for overseas communication circuits have been reduced. Radio dramas have been selected on the basis of lower cost. A projected America tour of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra has been abandoned. The continuing reduction in staff has been confined to 'natural wastage', without further termination of services by the Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, the question of legislation which might be used to enable adequate control to be exercised over the importation of radio equipment into Australia is currently being examined. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 28 days as a minimum. 
1972-90 516; 1973-98 078; 1974-96 653; 1975-92 637; 1976-100 922. 
The period allowed for payment is the same as for private subscribers, however, for the reasons given in (4) below, services leased by Government Departments and agencies are not normally subject to disconnection for nonpayment of accounts. 
No services of Government departments and agencies were disconnected during the last 5 years. Telecom Australia accepts that Government departments and agencies do not constitute a credit risk and, therefore, the protection of Commission's revenue through the restriction of services is not necessary. As well, Government departments and agencies use their telecommunication services to maintain contact with the community they serve and in view of this the community would be disadvantaged if such action were taken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes, in both respects. 
It is understood that the police forces in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia have responded to the advice given. It is not known whether any of the arrests which have been made can be claimed to result solely from departmental advice regarding illegal radio transmissions. 
Ethnic Groups: Representation in Victorian Municipalities  (Question No. 715) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since the establishment of the Australian Postal Commission on 1 July 1 975 and to the end of March 1977 
a ) 322 non-official post offices have been closed, including seven converted from non-official to official status, and 
b ) 21 have been opened, including three converted from official to non-official status. 
2 ) The present policy concerning the opening and closing of non-official post offices is unchanged from that which existed prior to the establishment of the Australian Postal Commission. The policy aims at progressive action to rationalise the provision of postal services, without detracting from the existing standards of service and, in many cases, with an improvement to the standard of delivery of mail. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department in consultation with the Attorney-General and the SolicitorGeneral. 

 Mr Bruce Gyngell: Association with American Broadcasting Company and Television Corporation Ltd (Question No. 813) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
21 December 1976. 
21 December 1976. 
30 December 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at June 1976 there were 60 public telephones installed in the City of Campbelltown and this represented a percentage of 0. 1 8 of public telephones as to population. 
) This compares with a percentage of 0.26 of public telephones as to population in the Sydney Metropolitan area. 
During the 1976-77 financial year an additional11 public telephones will be installed in the Campbelltown area and this will increase to 0.19 the percentage of public telephones as to the projected population at June 1977. 
As at June 1976 17.31 per cent of the population of Campbelltown had private telephone services and this compared with the Sydney Metropolitan area where 25 per cent of the population had private services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the basis of information provided to the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board, and subsequently to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, by licensees of commercial broadcasting and television stations, and by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the following tables have been compiled to show the details requested under parts ( 1 ), (2) and (3) of the question. 
There is no need for me to react to the honourable member's question because I have already taken steps to see that both commissions discharge their responsibilities in the manner for which they were set up. One of the responsibilities is not to be a retailer of stationery. Some so-called market surveys have been carried out. It has been traditional in the Post Office, of course, to sell some equipment or goods which are involved with the business of postage of articles. Some consideration was given to extending this activity. Some weeks ago I reminded the Commission that I thought that that went beyond its charter. The Commission found it agreeable to accept my comments. I am certain that retailers and business people generally will not and ought not to have the problem of competition from these commissions. 
I present the following papers for the information of honourable members: 
The Australian Postal Commission- Service and Business Outlook for year 1977-78. 
The Australian Telecommunications CommissionService and Business Outlook for year 1977-78. 
Ordered that the papers be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The accompanying lists show the information requested. 
The exchanges convened to automatic in the years mentioned were as follows: 
In Macquarie, the Wallerawang exchange is expected to be convened to automatic during June 1977. The Ginkin Meadow Flat and Oberon exchanges have been tentatively scheduled for conversion during 1978 but Telecom has stressed that this programming is subject to review in the light of the resources available and the relative urgency of other projects. 
Telecom has no immediate plans for any other exchange conversions in Macquarie and at this stage none of the remaining manual exchanges in Calare have been firmly programmed for conversion to automatic. 
Macquarie Electoral Division- None of the manual exchanges were extended or upgraded in 1975 or 1976. The only extension work planned is the installation of four additional Directory Assistance positions in the Penrith Manual Assistance Centre. 
Calare Electoral Division- No manual exchanges were extended or upgraded in 1975 but during 1976 one additional operating position was installed in the Canowindra and Gulgong exchanges to provide increased capacity. Telecom has no plans to extend or upgrade any other manual exchange in Calare. 
Telephone exchange locations in electoral division of Macquarie 
Automatic Exchanges 
Note: The number of persons employed at staffed exchanges is shown in brackets. 
Bathurst (23), Blackheath, Bogee, Brewongle, Castlereagh, Dunkeld, Eglington, Essington, Fitzgeralds Valley, Glenbrook (8), Hartley, Hazelbrook, Jocelyn, Katoomba (18), Killongbutta, Lawson, Leura, Limekilns, Lithgow (21), Megalong, Mt Victoria, Mozart Mulgoa, Norway, O'Connell, Olinda, Peel, Penrith (74), Portland, Raglan, Rydal, Springwood (10), Warrimoo, Wentworth Fails, Yetholme. 
Manual Exchanges 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Telecommunications Commission has placed orders with private contractors for typing and computer programming services. The Postal Commission has used private contractors for typing services. 
No. Intermittent work loadings and recruitment difficulties are the main factors. 
Costs from 1 July 1976 to date Telecommunications Commission: 
Typing: $3433 
Computer Programming:$ 1 22,639 
Postal Commission: 
Typing: $1,431. 
Yes, in relation to the Telecommunications Commission. Different firms are used and the lowest tenderer suitable for the particular type of work involved is selected. There was one exception where typing at a cost of $108 was placed with a previously used agency to save time and administrative costs. The Postal Commission uses competitive quotations where the value of the projected work exceeds $100. The only instance of this occurred in Tasmania where the lowest and selected quotation was C. M. Staff Centre, Launceston. 
The Postal Commission uses the standard quotation procedure. 
As the typing workload is of an irregular nature in both Commissions, no additional typing staff is warranted. Telecom Australia advises that5 additional computer programming staff would be required for the particular projects. Programming staff are in short supply however, and it is extremely difficult for the Commission to recruit, at the present time, staff with the necessary qualifications and abilities. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) No. The Music Broadcasting Society of Queensland Ltd has indicated its interest in an FM licence. 
The initial indication of interest was dated 20 September 1976. 
No. 
See (3)above. 
Yes. 
Test broadcasts have been conducted as follows: 
Between noon 27 August and 8.00 p.m. 29 August 1976 excluding the hours between 10.00 p.m. and 10.00 a.m. 
Between 6.00 p.m. 22 October and midnight 24 October 1976, 6.00 p.m. 22 April and midnight 25 April 1977 and 6.00 p.m. 29 April and midnight 2 May 1977, excluding the hours between midnight and 8.00 a.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ABC found no mention of the group in its research, conducted in collaboration with the organisers, prior to the Anzac Day Parade, nor was such a group officially identified in the Parade itself. The ABC did not receive any direction in this matter. 
Postal Charges on Naval Ships  (Question No. 959) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Prior to 1974 a significant number of official offices had been closed on Saturdays and the Saturday trading hours of others had been reduced in accordance with a lower level of customer demand. Closure of all official post offices on Saturdays resulted from direct action in 1974 by certain staff organisations which instructed their members (including counter staff) not to attend for overtime duty on Saturdays. Until that time, counter staff completed their weekly hours over the five days, Monday to Friday, and were rostered on overtime in order to provide counter services on Saturdays. 
Negotiations with staff organisations to re-open some official post offices on Saturday mornings were not successful. Studies showed that it was not practicable to provide counter services on Saturdays under any acceptable rostering arrangement whereby the Saturday duty could be regarded as normal duty with time off in lieu during the week. 
Additionally, cost benefit analyses have been made on the re-opening on Saturday mornings of those official post offices which, prior to 1974, did provide a Saturday service. On the basis of providing a counter service only, costs (at current prices) would be to the order of $4.8 million a year. At many of the offices, the costs involved would not be justified by the service demand, and overall, it is most unlikely that any significant additional revenue would be earned. 
Recent surveys have indicated low demand for Saturday counter services at many non-official post offices that do provide services on Saturdays. Based on these surveys and for the economic reasons given in (1), the reintroduction of services at official post offices on Saturdays is unlikely. Postal services continue to be provided at those non-official post offices where there is a reasonably high demand for counter services on Saturdays. 
3 ) The following non-official post offices in the St George Electorate are open on Saturdays and provide a counter service from 9 a.m. to 1 1 a.m.: Banksia; Bardwell Park; Bexley North; Bexley South; Carlton; Clemton Park; Earlwood West; Kingsway West. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Frequency warrants will be issued as part of the process of allocating frequencies for broadcasting services. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
In cases of gross and/or repeated instances of technical malpractice- particularly matters affecting other services such as the use of an incorrect operating frequency, excessive spurious radiations, excessive power and so on. 
Yes. If the drift was so excessive as to cause harmful interference to another service, and if reasonable steps had not been taken to correct the drift. These provisions would apply to all users. 
A suitable warning would be given to remedy the technical problem concerned. This warning would also give notice of intention to withdraw the frequency warrant if no corrective action was taken within a reasonable time period as specified. 
Under the revised broadcasting system a number of powers previously held by the Minister and the former Australian Broadcasting Control Board become the responsibility of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. However, the management of the radio frequency spectrum with its international obligations must remain a Government responsibility, and will now be separately discharged through the issue of frequency warrants. 
10) Yes. However since a frequency warrant would only be withdrawn in cases of gross technical malpractice, any action taken in this regard would be very much in the public interest. 
1 1 ) No detailed study has been made of this matter see (12). 
A system of fines has not been considered for Australia as such a system is felt to be totally inappropriate as a means of rectifying major breaches of technical standards which are causing substantial interference. Breaches of this nature require correction, rather than a penalty by way of a fine. 
See(l2). 
1 4 ) As one of the basic aims of the frequency warrant system is to protect the interests of radio listeners and television viewers in Australia, there would appear to be no necessity to review the system at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It has now been decided to defer the establishment of a Broadcasting Council until the Government has had the opportunity to consider the report and recommendations of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal following completion of its inquiry into broadcasting standards and the concept of self-regulation. As the proposals included in the Green Report for the formation of a Broadcasting Council envisaged a significant role for such a Council into matters of programming and advertising standards, as well as broadcasting planning, it has been considered desirable that there should be a clearer understanding of the manner in which matters of regulation within the industry is likely to be administered in the future before a Council of this nature is finally established. 
) The composition of the Council, and its functions, will be reviewed in association with the points raised in ( I ). 
See(2). 
The present position regarding the postal dispute is completely unacceptable. The first point I want to make is that the provision of mail services to Australia is absolutely essential. They are being disrupted by a series of rolling strikes, bans and limitations which have affected all States but in particular have affected New South Wales because of the problem at the Redfern mail exchange concerning the new rostering arrangements flowing on from discussions on the implementation of the 36%-hour working week. Whilst there are mail delays in all States, the position is becoming critical in New South Wales. Despite the fact that this matter has been to arbitration, the unions continue with their limitations and bans. The Government finds this position absolutely intolerable. The Australian Postal Commission finds the position intolerable and unless common sense prevails, the Postal Commission on Friday will start to stand down employees not fulfilling their work obligations. The Government is tired and the community is tired of having a few people in Australia prejudicing the interests of the community and the country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
It is estimated that there are approximately 80 000 stations currently operating in this frequency band. 
Not entirely. As you know the Government has approved the introduction of a licensed Citizens Radio Service in Australia. All such 27 Megahertz equipment which was previously designed for the U.S.A. market is being accepted for licensing for a period of two months only ending 3 1 August 1977 provided that the transmitters do not provide for operation on more than 23 channels and the transmitter power does not exceed the limit specified for use in Australia. As from the date mentioned, however, equipment intended for use in the service concerned will be required to meet more stringent technical standards. 
Letters from Premiers: Pre-School Funding  (Question No. 794) 
I rise to support the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in presenting the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill to the Parliament. Having listened to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the first thing I want to do is remind the House of what the Minister said, that is, that the provisions of this legislation will be used only in the gravest circumstances. It is perfectly clear to the Government that if it is to discharge its responsibilities it is necessary that this legislation be passed by both Houses of the Parliament. But the Minister has made it perfectly clear that it will not be proclaimed and used unless it is necessary in the national interest. That is what this Government is concerned about; that is what the previous Administration did not spend sufficient time being concerned about. Therefore, this legislation is necessary. I think that before too long the common sense of all Australians will be brought to bear and the great majority will support an elected government having this sort of legislation available should circumstances arise when it is necessary to use it. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand spent some time referring to the possible use of this legislation in the postal service as an example. He made some comments about the present dispute. It is desirable, therefore, that I put on record the tremendous problem we are facing today with regard to the postal service which, after all, is essential. There is a requirement of the Australian Postal Commission and its employees to see that Australians receive their mail. There has been an enormous amount of disruption, particularly in the past year or two, and certain sections of the community have been distressed and disadvantaged beyond an acceptable level. The Government is sick and tired of this situation, the Commission is sick and tired of it, as is the community. The honourable member for Gellibrand and his colleagues ought to remember that the community is sick and tired of it. 
What is the issue that caused all the problem we have with the Postal and Telecommunications Union? The dispute is over an agreement to implement a 36%-hour working week for those members of the union who do not presently enjoy that advantage. That ought to be remembered. As the honourable member for Gellibrand rightly identified, the prime problem is in the New South Wales division, at the Redfern Mail Exchange. But the Opposition spokesman said: 'We know we have troubles in Redfern, but I do not have enough time today to tell the House all about them'. I invite honourable members on both sides of the House to study the record of the Redfern Mail Exchange. I am certain that the Postmasters-General in the previous Administration and members of the Labor Party generally would not be too pleased, as Australians, if they were to see the shocking record with regard to Redfern. After all, the federal executive of the union is unhappy. The elected secretary is unhappy and has made public statements rebuking the New South Wales executive for its attitude. Whilst the problems might be restricted to New South Wales and South Australia to date, when there are problems in the Redfern Mail Exchange there are problems not only in New South Wales but also in getting the mail through all over Australia. These problems have been disadvantaging the Australian community for far too long. 
It ought to be remembered that the Government and the Australian Postal Commission agreed to support the implementation of a 36% hour week for members of the union who do not presently enjoy those working conditions, on the arrangement and understanding that the guidelines laid down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would be followed. Is any member of the Opposition going to dispute that guidelines set down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should be followed? Is there any argument that it is reasonable to expect commissions, unions, employers and employees to accept those guidelines? In short, one of the significant criteria is that the implementation should be at negligible cost; in other words, that there should be no additional cost to the community if people are going to work shorter hours. Negotiations have been going on for 14 months. Surely people are not going to wonder now. Everybody is getting a bit sick and tired of the disruptive tactics that have gone on. 
What is the position in the mail exchange in Redfern in Sydney? It is simply that in the implementation of the agreement there will need to be new rosters. At the moment there are uneconomic shifts and restrictive work practices. I invite any former Postmaster-General- I think there were two Postmasters-General in the previous Administration- to say publicly that they were never concerned about the restrictive work practices at Redfern. I have here a list- I am informed that it is not an exhaustive list-of 40 restrictive work practices currently implemented at Redfern. I seek permission to have this list incorporated in  Hansard  so that honourable members can have for the record the position as it presently applies. 
The overall cost is in excess of $3m. The arrangement was that, because of the $3.4m which this exercise is costing, with the shorter working hours there would be new rosters to remove some of the restrictive work practices and some of the uneconomic shifts at a saving of $3m. That is what the argument is all about. It was a reasonable approach, agreed to by the Postal Commission and agreed to by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which a significant section of the union is now prepared to ignore completely. While all this has been going on, particularly in the last few weeks, the matter has been subject to further arbitration and an element of the trade union movement has continued to say: 'We are not concerned about the view of the umpire. ' Yesterday Commissioner Sweeney suggested a standoff position for seven days so that the matter could be considered further - 
The honourable member for Gellibrand says he has said all this. He did not bother to inform the House of all the details necessary for honourable members to have an understanding of the intransigent attitude with which the Government is faced. When Commissioner Sweeney yesterday suggested a seven-day stand-off period to talk further about the position, did the New South Wales division accept that reasonable decision? No. This afternoon it said: 'We are not interested in what the umpire has to say. We are not interested at all. We are simply going to continue the bans and limitations which we have imposed. We are going to continue to disadvantage Australians', and the mail service continues to be disrupted. So the community is being disadvantaged.' Too often in Australia recently in too many ways we have seen a few people disadvantage by prejudicial and intransigent attitudes the welfare of the entire community. In this case they are even prejudicing the welfare of their colleagues. 
This type of approach by any section of the Australian community becomes intolerable. It becomes intolerable for the authorities, it becomes intolerable for the Government, and it is intolerable for the community. Whilst this legislation is in no way designed to deal simply with a postal dispute, and in fact it is made perfectly clear that the Government hopes that the legislation will not be used, it ought to be understood that when governments are faced time and dme again with this sort of challenge from elements within the trade union movement there has to be legislative authority available should it need to be used. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Prior to the establishment of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions, it was agreed with unions and staff associations that officers of the then Postmaster-General's Department should not suffer reduced promotional opportunities as a consequence of being allocated to the service of one or other of the commissions. The arrangement agreed to was that, for the five years after the establishment of the commissions, either commission should be able to promote to a position in its service an officer in the service of the other commission; and any officer in the service of either commission should be able to appeal against any promotion to a position in the service of either of the commissions. 
The Promotions Appeal Boards of the two commissions have acted on the basis that section 20 of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Act 1975 gives effect to the agreed arrangements. Recent legal advice is that the section is more limiting in application and denies the right of appeal in certain circumstances. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Act to accord with the original intention and to validate action taken by the Promotion Appeal Boards on appeals and promotions based on that intention. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As announced in the Budget, licence fees payable by commercial broadcasters are to be increased by 20 per cent. This Bill gives effect to that decision. The Bill extends the range of the present scale upwards so that the impact is upon commercial broadcasters with gross earnings exceeding $4m per annum. 
The variation of the scale of fees in this manner means that the new scale of fees will affect only a very small number of commercial radio broadcasting stations. The effect on licensees is quite minimal, but the Government decided to retain parity between the scales of licence fees payable by both radio and television licensees. The new scale effective from 1 September 1977 is estimated to increase 1977-78 radio broadcasting station licence fee revenue to approximately $1.4m. 
I commend this Bill to the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As announced in the Budget, licence fees payable by commercial television licensees are to be increased by 20 per cent. This Bill gives effect to that decision. The Bill extends the range of the present scale upwards so that the impact is upon commercial licensees with gross earnings exceeding $4m per annum. The variation of the scale of fees in this manner means that in the main only metropolitan commercial television station licensees with high gross earnings will be affected. The new scale, effective from 1 September 1977, is estimated to increase 1977-78 television station licence fee revenue by $1.7m to $9.3m. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 

 - Mr O'Keefe asked me the following question, without notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio stations 2NA and 2UH, on their program  Talking Point  from 5.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday, 22 May 1977, broadcast an interview by a woman with two lesbians that was filthy and degenerate, with the interviewer appearing deliberately to lead the conversation on to what they said? Was this a disgusting episode? Is it a fact that this program is described as a current affairs program for 10 to 16 year olds? Who were the producer and director and interviewer in this degrading episode? Will the Minister call for the tape recording of this program and take the necessary action to stop such filth being broadcast to the Australian people? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following my preliminary answer to the honourable member, I asked the ABC for details about the program and received the following information: 

 Talking Point is designed for young adults and since its introduction has directed attention to a wide range of subjects of concern to them. 
As to the content of the program broadcast on Sunday, 22 May from 2NA and 2UH, the ABC has advised me that the language used in the program was seen as a breach of ABC guidelines and appropriate action was immediately taken by ABC Management in respect of those responsible for the program. 
The Executive Producer of the program was a member of the staff of the ABC's Young People 's Program Department. 
The ABC have informed me that action has been taken to avoid a recurrence of a lapse of the type to which attention has been drawn. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
If the current installation charges were removed demand could be expected to rise substantially. As many of these potential subscribers reside at considerable distances from exchanges a precise estimate of reduction in receipts would be difficult. Telecom Australia advises that, based on the installation rate achieved in the last financial year, a reduction in receipts of about $500,000 could be expected in a full financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Postal and Telecommunications Department has no record of any occasion when the Commonwealth Government has received emergency assistance from people using Citizen Band radios. 
The Postal and Telecommunications Department prepared a report on the possible introduction to Australia of a Citizen Band Radio Service in January 1 977. This report was widely circulated for discussion to many interested individuals and organisations in the community. It was also provided to all members and senators of the Commonwealth Parliament. The Government has taken a decision to introduce a Citizens Radio Service and as a consequence there seems little reason to table the report. 
Over 600 submissions were received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

Drama Programs:  (a) 

 Power Without Glory Certain Women 


 Last Rites 


 The Company Men 


 Essington 


 They Don 7  Clap Losers 

 Rush (2nd Series) 
Documentary Programs  Women in the Church A Civilised Malady The Last Great Plague 

 Wildlife of Papua New Guinea 


 A Big Country 


 A Bay in the Balance Wild Australia 


 A Another  Beginning From India to Nepal Tom Roberts- Australian Painter 
Children's Programs  A Drop in the Ocean 

 Funny Things Happen Down Under lb) 
Thames Television, UK Thames Television, UK Border TV Area, UK Southern Television, UK Border TV Area, UK Granada Television, UK Radio Telefis Eirean, Eire Telemalta Corporation, Malta Scottish TV Area, UK Yorkshire Television, UK Southern Television, UK Grampian TV Area, UK Yorkshire and Tyne Tess, UK Radiodiffusion Italiana, Italy Oy Yleisradio AB, Finland Icelandic State Broadcasting 
Service- TV Iceland Granada Television, UK Nederlandse Omroep Stichting, 
Netherlands BCNZ, New Zealand 
BCNZ, New Zealand BCNZ, New Zealand Yugoslavia Radiotelevision 
Yugoslavia Poltel, Poland BBC, UK 
Hungarofilm Hungary Southern Television, UK Thames Television, UK Sveriges Radio TV- 1 , Sweden Telemalta Corporation, Malta Hungarofilm, Hungary Time-Life Films Inc., New York 
Bahrain Television, Bahrain Telemalta Corporation, Malta Scottish Television Limited Scottish Television Limited 
Radio Telefis Eirean, Eire Nederlandse Omroep Stichting 
Holland Radio Televisao Portuguesa, 
Portugal Telemalta Corporation, Malta Southern TV, UK Norsk Rikskringkasting, 
Norway Poltel, Poland Radio Telefis Eirean, Eire 
News and Public Affairs Programs 

 Weekend Magazine- 29 BCNZ, New Zealand separate items  Four Corners-  16 separate BCNZ, New Zealand items  This Day 

 Tonight- Interview with Lord Snowdon  Monday 

 Conference- Broadcasting in a Democratic Society 

BCNZ, New Zealand 
BCNZ, New Zealand (a) 
Sporting Programs 

 Australian Grand 


 National Interdominion Trotting and Pacing 


 Championships The Kiwis are Coming Australian Rules Football 


 VFL Grand Final 1975 Test Cricket: Australia v. 

 West Indies Daily 


 Highlights of Play 


 (1975/76) 


 West Indies on Tour (b) 
BCNZ, New Zealand BCNZ, New Zealand 
BCNZ, New Zealand BCNZ, New Zealand 
Trinidad and Tobago Television 
Rediffusion TV Ltd., Hong 
Kong Trinidad and Tobago 
Television 
BCNZ, New Zealand 
Religious Programs  Institut Bilong Tok Pies 
Light Entertainment Programs 
Rene Geyer  (Funky Road)  BCNZ, New Zealand 
Music Programs 

 The Violins of St Jacques BBC, UK (Opera) 
Program sale prices form part of contractual agreements. The ABC is unable to make them public without the consent of the purchasers. In any event, quoting sale prices for individual programs would be misleading as they are often subject to special agreements between the ABC and overseas organisations. 
The revenue is retained by the ABC for its normal operations. 
-Yes, I am aware of complaints by a number of people concerning interference. The course of action which ought to be taken by people is to report the interference to departmental officers, who are in the major cities and areas of Australia. When we legalised CB radio we accepted that there was a chance of some interference. I have a slight problem at the moment, that is, that members of the Professional Radio and Electronics Institute have placed a ban on not only the issuing of licences but also the investigating of complaints. Today the Public Service Board will convene a meeting to discuss the problems. I hope that commonsense will prevail and the bans will be lifted so that we will again have licences being issued and investigation of the complaints taking place. I do ask people to advise us of their problems. Our officers will then take them up with CB radio enthusiasts and if the interference continues action will be taken to make certain that it is discontinued. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Television Stations Licence Fees Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy^ Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I assure the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that I will look at the case in respect of which he has been good enough to give me details. I will see whether anything can be done to alleviate what is obviously an unfortunate position. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Pursuant to regulation 8a of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) (Superannuation) Regulations made on 30 May 1977 under the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act 1973 I present the report by the Commissioner for Superannuation on the operations of the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Board during the year ended 30 June 1973. 
-I hope that in the future Australians can expect to receive their mail without interruption. Regrettably, that has not been the case over a considerable period. The Redfern Mail Exchange has been the central element in the disruption of mail services and, because of its size, it impacts upon mail not only in Sydney and New South Wales but also throughout the Commonwealth. Therefore, what happens at the Redfern Mail Exchange is important and even critical. The negotiations, which appear to have settled the dispute satisfactorily, were very prolonged, they extended over a substantial period, and in the end I think were encouraged by the determination of the Government, a determination which was reflected by the Australian Postal Commission. When I say 'encouraged', the Act in regard to Commonwealth employees was one of the measures of encouragement - 
The Act was one of the measures of encouragement which made mail workers realise that the Government was quite determined to see that essential services were continued throughout the country in a proper manner. 
-I want to make it quite clear- and it is interesting to note the sensitivity of the Leader of the Opposition who continues to interject- that the Government would not wish to use such legislation. We made it perfectly clear that we would not use it unless it was in the most extenuating circumstances. 
-In serious circumstances. We made it perfectly clear - 
-I again tell the honourable gentleman that the decision was taken at the time because we wanted to have a fresh look at the impact, in the technical sense, upon the requirements for broadcasting in that part of New South Wales. Again I say to the honourable gentleman that he is confused as to the facts. The present inquiry into stations in the Blue Mountains area is quite different, distinct and apart from my direction to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to call for applications for a broadcasting service in an area which is quite different from- although it impinges on- the subject of the present inquiry. I would have thought that all members of the Opposition, including the Leader of the Opposition, would wish to see an adequate broadcasting service provided in those growing areas of Sydney. That is the entire purpose of the inquiry. After all, there is a tremendously increased population in that area. New licences have not been issued for many years in Sydney. It is quite reasonable that the Tribunal will now listen to the applicants and will make a decision. I repeat that the present Tribunal hearing, with regard to the stations in the Blue Mountains, is quite separate and apart from the new applications which I have invited. The honourable member continues to have this quite unnecessary sort of sinister suspicion about providing a service which he ought to know is overdue and needed in that part of New South Wales. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In Bankruptcy Court proceedings in Queensland during May 1977 it was disclosed that the following amounts were owed in respect to telephone services at 3 1 High Street, Atherton, Queensland: 
The answer to the honourable members 's question is as follows: 
The report referred to was a 'liberal' interpretation of a telephone conversation I had with a  Townsville Daily Bulletin  reporter concerning my personal attitude to  Mr Fancher. 
I have no knowledge of these alleged recommendations to the Premier of Queensland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 1003. 
-I considered as much as possible how I could accommodate the honourable gentleman's requirement for information. Why is he so obsessed about Wiley Fancher and his wife? Why this intense interest? I have already stated my opinion of those two people. The honourable gentleman also said that I am a devotee of  AM.  I can assure him that I am not. Sometimes I listen to the program. I did not listen on this particular occasion. I have considered the request for information that the honourable gentleman has made. If it will help him and give him some sense of contentment I shall consider it again. As to whether I change my mind, that will be a matter on which honourable members will have to wait and see. But of course you, as a reasonable person, would appreciate - 
by leave- Australian telephone subscribers are currently served by a network of over 4.5 million lines of automatic switching equipment; 1.3 million lines of this equipment are electromechanical and were installed in the period 1939-62. In order to obtain worthwhile economies in operation and, at the same time, provide customers with new facilities and to meet demands it is necessary for Telecom Australia to embark on a program of equipment modernisation. 
The first part of this modernisation program will commence next year by upgrading the existing system with a limited form of computer control. The second part of the program is the adoption of a new electronic switching system for use from about 1980. To this end, world-wide tenders for suitable equipment closed in July 1975; seven tenders were received. 
In mid 1976 Telecom announced that it had narrowed the equipment selection down to two tenders, one from L. M. Ericsson (Australia) Pty Ltd for an AXE system and the other from STC (Australia) Pty Ltd for its IOC equipment. Some 20,000 man-hours of technical evaluation of the two systems resulted in the Australian Telecommunications Commission recommending the AXE system offered by L. M. Ericsson (Australia) Pty Ltd as the most suitable system for introduction into the Austraiian network in the 1980s. This system capitalises on recent advances in computer and electronics technologies. It will be cheaper to buy, to install and to maintain than if Telecom continued with the present system. It will be an important factor in containing cost increases and thus prices to the user in the years ahead. 
Savings over the first ten year period are estimated to be in excess of $100m at current prices. In addition, the new equipment will enable a range of additional facilities to be introduced progressively. The contract with L. M. Ericsson will require a high proportion of Australian manufacture, reaching at least 80 per cent as volume increases. The contract will also provide for manufacture under licence. 
The introduction of the stored program control equipment and its adaptation to work with the Australian network will be a substantial engineering undertaking for both Telecom and the company. In adopting an SPC local exchange system Australia is in line with the general trend around the world. While the equipment will require less staff to install and maintain, the general growth in telecommunication services is strong and Telecom's technical labour force should continue to grow. 
In chosing between the two main competitive systems the overall employment consequences in the telecommunications industry were of concern to the Government. Both STC and L. M. Ericsson have established facilities for switching equipment production in Australia. The Government however is convinced that while it may be necessary for some readjustment in staffing levels between STC and L. M. Ericsson there will be no overall adverse impact on employment within the industry as a result of the decision. In terms of total factory production employment, company staff are more dependent on overall Telecom orders than on the choice of a particular new switching system. 
In the period 1977 to 1985 orders for telephone switching equipment which include the STC 10C trunk equipment and the first deliveries of SPC local equipment are expected to be worth about $700m at current prices. STC manufactures crossbar equipment under licence and is the sole 10C trunk supplier. L. M. Ericsson on the other hand is the prime supplier for crossbar equipment. 
On this basis therefore even with the SPC local equipment being awarded to L. M. Ericsson, total switching equipment orders are expected to continue at a comparable level until at least the mid 1980s. Beyond 1985 it can be expected that SPC local switching equipment will be made under licence by a second manufacturer. STC are already manufacturing electronic trunk switching equipment and could quite possibly be a suitable licensee of the local SPC local system. 
The Commission believes that the introduction of the SPC local equipment offers significant cost savings and its flexibility will give customers improved services. The Commission views the future with optimism. Demand seems assured. There is a sound network and a well qualified staff. Promising new technology holds an advantageous prospect of additional services together with the important cost features. The new equipment should enable the Commission to restrain increasing costs below those experienced by the community in general. 
I present the following paper 
New Generation Local Telephone Switching EquipmentMinisterial Statement, IS September 1977. 
-I was simply going to make a statement, but if it is the desire of the House that I move that the House take note of the paper I do not mind doing so. 
-I well remember being in the honourable member's electorate earlier this year and going with him to look at the communications system at the Royal Flying Doctor Service base. There is no doubt that if we could get an interface between that outpost service and the Telecommunications Commission it would assist immensely in communications in the outback part of his electorate. It is this Government's policy, as distinct from that of our predecessors, to be concerned about providing increased facilities for communication services in all parts of Australia. 
-The Government of which the honourable member for Wills was a member had an abysmal record in regard to rural industries and communications. It did everything to prejudice improvement in those areas. As to the particular matter about which the honourable member for Leichhardt inquired, this has gone on too long. I have had discussions with members and management of the Telecommunications Commission. The Commission did meet in Brisbane, I think it was last week, and it will be having further discussions with officials of the Royal Flying Doctor Service. I have asked the Commission for a full report covering its attitude and competence to arrange this matter within the next two weeks. Like the honourable member for Leichhardt, I am determined to see that communications systems are improved in his electorate and anywhere else throughout Australia. 
-It is true that a number of electorates throughout Australia do not have adequate television viewing facilities. I think the honourable member mentioned a number of electorates in Queensland. I have considered the situation in those areas and in the electorate of Kalgoorlie, which I think was mentioned also. There is a problem in virtually every State in Australia. In the present Budget we have been able to obtain an allocation of funds, and work to provide increased faculties will commence in a number of electorates. I have to point out that not only is there a restraint upon the amount of money available but also a limit to the engineering capacity of the Postal Department, the Australian Telecommunications Commission and others. 
Within the next two to three weeks I shall be taking to the Government a suggested three-year program, which will give all electorates a very good indication of the sort of program that we envisage. I recognise that just to use traditional means would not solve all the problems. The enormous cost of extending television services throughout Australia by traditional means would, of course, be prohibitive. That is why with the use of technology and other initiatives I can see greater opportunities in the years ahead. I hope that the honourable member is aware that I am currently considering one or two initiatives. I am certain that before too long, I will be able to make a statement to the Parliament which will give even greater encouragement to people and help them to understand that this Government is committed to improving communication, in whatever medium, throughout the Australian community. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946, 1 present the annual report of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 3 1 March 1977. 

 - Mr Speaker, in adding to the answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Hunter, I advise him not to pursue this matter because he will find himself to be utterly incorrect. Simply because the honourable member for Wannon happens to be the Prime Minister - 
Why does not the honourable member for Shortland listen? If he does so he will find out. When the honourable member for Wannon, who happens to be the Prime Minister, puts a request relating to bis electorate to any Minister he is not put on the bottom of the list just because he is the Prime Minister; nor would a Minister put the honourable member for Werriwa at the bottom of the list just because he is the Leader of the Opposition. Virtually every State in Australia will benefit from the decisions that the Government reached in this Budget. Furthermore, within the next month I will be bringing out a three-year program which will demonstrate that this Government is determined to provide additional television facilities everywhere in Australia where there is a lack of capacity. No priority in this matter has been given to the Prime Minister. If the honourable member looks at the list- I will be happy to provide it to him-he will see that almost every State is to be assisted. 
On behalf of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  and for the information of honourable members, I present the report of  Sir Bede  Callaghan, C.B.E., following his inquiry into the structure of industry and the employment situation in Tasmania together with a statement made by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on behalf of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton). 
by leave -Too often people living in the more settled areas do not realise the size and isolation of parts of Australia. I have seen at first hand the urgent need for, and am aware of the enormous cost involved in, bringingthe provincial cities and remoter areas of Australia into closer contact with our capital cities. People who have chosen to live and work in these areas are entitled to the same considerations from the communications point of view as those who choose to live in the capital cities of Australia. I have also on many occasions reminded honourable members and Australians generally of the Government's firm commitment to improve telecommunications and broadcasting facilities in rural and remote areas of Australia. 
Honourable members need no reminding of the inadequacy of radio, television and telephone services in these areas. Australia is a large continent Its distances are vast The cost of using current terrestrial systems to take these services throughout Australia is enormous and in some instances difficult to justify. Australia is, however, not alone in striving to obtain improved communications faculties throughout large areas which comprise dense and very sparse population. Opportunity and technology now exist for resolving these deficiencies and providing new and exciting prospects to enable a fuller and better lifestyle for all Australians. Overseas experience, particularly in the United States and Canada, has shown that a domestic satellite system can provide services reliably and economically 
The Government recently received a report from Australian Consolidated Press Ltd titled The Opportunity for Television Program Distribution m Australia Using Satellites'. This report discusses the domestic satellite systems of North America and suggests an opportunity for equally advanced services in Australia. The report presents a plan for a satellite service to distribute television programs simultaneously throughout Australia. It also points out that other improved services become possible if adequate capacity exists. I refer to instructional television, health care by telemedicine, long distance telephone trunk calls, closed circuit television and digital data transmission. 
The report proposes establishing a nationwide television network distribution system. The adoption of such a proposal might well mean a major revision of the television broadcasting frequency plan ' to accommodate additional rebroadcast transmitters. It could mean a reassessment of future terrestrial telecommunication systems. The Government has therefore decided that this report should be subject to a detailed investigation. 
A task force comprising officers from the Postal and Telecommunications Department, the Department of Finance, the Department of Defence, the Department of Transport, the Aus.tralian Telecommunications Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission will be established. The Australian broadcasting industry will be involved; technical experts from Austrafia and overseas will participate; and Papua New Guinea and New Zealand will also be invited. The terms of reference Wil include evaluation of benefits and costs and an examination of the implications for the structure, ownership and control of the Australian radio, television and broadcasting industries. The task force Will be given up to six months to prepare its report. It will be responsible to me as Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
The decision is an indication of the Government's intention to positively assist people in the provincial cities and in rural and remote areas while at the same time offering new and exciting opportunities to people in the more densely populated areas. The Government, in deciding to move quickly on this matter, hopes that the decision will bring private industry and the Government together in another co-operative undertaking for the benefit of aU Australians. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) It has always been accepted in Australia, and most overseas countries, that it is economically advantageous and in the national interest to maintain one technologically compatible communications system. 
The present Australian system is based on one statutory authority (Telecom Australia) providing the national domestic network and one statutory authority (OTC) linking the domestic service with overseas countries. 
The entry of a private operator into the telecommunications field would tend to lead to fragmentation and incompatability between competing systems particularly as telecommunications technology will continue to be subject to rapid change. 
For the above reasons no study of the sort referred to has been undertaken and none is proposed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no meaningful figures obtainable in either instance, because of the fluctuation in size of audiences and the wide differences in the costs of individual programs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The claim was made in an interview with reporter Sue Faulkner. 
No, the brand name was obscured by the reporter's hand. 
4) Refer to answer ( 3 ) above. 
Refer to answer (3) above. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947 I present the annual report of the trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31 December 1976 together with the report of the AuditorGeneral relating to this report. 
Pursuant to section 125 of the Insurance Act 1973 1 present the annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 30 June 1977 together with selected statistics on the general insurance industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics are not available to enable precise answers to all the questions asked by the honourable member to be provided. However, the available information is set out below. All figures relate to the seven major trading banks. 
Total 'personal loans'. Statistics on new and increased lending commitments to persons are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Total grants to the Queensland Government provided from the Commonwealth budget since 1972 have been as follows: 1972- 73-$460.2m. 1973- 74-$581.8m. 1974- 75-$856.7m. 1975- 76-51, 132.6m. 1976- 77-$ 1,288.7m. 1977- 78-$ 1,45 1.9m (estimate). 
For further details of funds (including loans as well as grants) provided by the Commonwealth to the Queensland Government I refer the honourable member to the Budget document 'Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities', or its equivalent, for each of the years 1972-73 to 1977-78. Summaries are provided in tables 136 and 133 in the 1976-77 and 1977-78 editions of the document, respectively. 
) In answering this part of the question it is useful to distinguish between general purpose payments and specific purpose payments. 
General purpose payments to the States (for example, the States' income tax-sharing entitlements) are made for use by the States as they see fit. The question of any repayments to the Commonwealth because of short-falls in State spending therefore does not arise in the case of such payments. 
In the case of specific purpose payments, Commonwealth payments to the States are administered in such a way that they be neither significantly in advance nor significantly in arrears of the State expenditures to which they relate. Repayments by the States to the Commonwealth are not, therefore, a common occurrence. 
Payments and expenditures are monitored closely as they occur and any overpayments which may be made are recovered as they are identified, usually by means of reduced payments in later periods. No special tabulation is maintained in the central accounting records of the Department of Finance of amounts paid to States and not spent by them, or of the recovery action undertaken. It is standard practice that the net amounts paid to each State are verified by State Auditors-General as having been spent by the States for the purposes laid down, and in the manner specified in the terms and conditions attached to the Government payment. 
As details of overpayments and recoveries are not recorded separately, extensive extraction of data from source documents held by departments responsible for each particular project or program would be required to provide the information sought by the honourable member. This work would be expected to show that there have been few instances of over-payments to Queensland and that those that have occurred have generally been small and promptly corrected. In these circumstances I have not asked officers to undertake the considerable work that would be required torovide a more detailed response to the honourable merrier 's question on all programs of assistance to Queensland; I suggest that if he has particular programs in mind he approach the responsible Minister for relevant information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The accounting records of Commonwealth departments are not designed to record or apportion expenditure in terms of amounts spent within individual electorates. Accordingly I regret that it is not possible to provide the details sought in respect of the electoral division of Petrie. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Commonwealth assists industry through a variety of measures, including direct financial assistance, taxation concessions, guaranteed home price arrangements, financial guarantees and the customs tariff. 
Direct industry assistance takes the form of bounties and subsidies, reconstruction and adjustment schemes, contributions to research and promotion programs, price support and other payments to or for the benefit of industry. It includes also some outlays by Government departments and instrumentalities (e.g. Department of Overseas Trade, Department of Industry and Commerce and Department of Primary Industry) which provide many services either free of charge or for charges which do not recover fully the costs incurred. 
The detailed table below shows net outlays on direct assistance from the Budget to manufacturing industry and agricultural and pastoral industries (i.e. after deducting amounts collected by way of industry levies and charges and repayments of loans). The table does not include direct assistance, such as export and trade promotion, which is not specific to either manufacturing industry or agricultural and pastoral industries. It will be noted that the annual totals for agricultural and pastoral industries are strongly influenced by the amounts of net advances or repayments in respect of wool marketing assistance; the significance of this factor can be seen from the following summary: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I regret that it is not possible to provide the honourable member with a detailed answer to this question. I do, however, refer the honourable member to an answer provided by the then Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to a similar question on notice- see answer to Question No. 2,  Hansard,  30 July 1974, page 830. 
In summary that answer stated that, on the expenditure side, it was not practicable to identify particular expenditure decisions and say that they derived directly and only from material provided in the Coombs Task Force report. On the revenue side, reference was made to the list of proposals in Statement No. 3 attached to the 1973-74 Budget Speech (pages 84 and 85). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
3 ) Not necessarily. ' Moderate ' is a term which, advisedly, does not lend itself to definition by decimal point. 
-Certainly the Australian Broadcasting Commission invited me to appear on  This Day Tonight  last night. I understand that it also asked the honourable member for Oxley to appear. I am told that he declined. The honourable member for Oxley is a bit degraded and downgraded these days. He is now entering the House. For his information, I am referring to his inability to appear on television last night with me. When he sensed a week or two ago that there might be yet another leadership struggle in the Labor Party he busied himself trying to avail himself of the media. First of all, he wanted to debate the economy with the Prime Minister. Why should the Prime Minister lend his personal prestige and the prestige of his office to debating with the honourable member for Oxley? Then the honourable member for Oxley wanted a debate with the Treasurer. The Treasurer was overseas serving the national interests, not back in Australia doing all that he could to subvert the national reputation. 
When the ABC approached me, I must admit that my first reaction was why should I lend my personal prestige to appearing with the honourable member for Oxley? But out of sheer compassion I decided, as a fellow Queenslander, that I would give him an opportunity to apologise to the Australian community for the things he has been saying. I was particularly concerned about him yesterday after he had been demolished by the honourable member for Denison and his supporters. I do not know why the honourable member for Oxley was unable to appear on television. Perhaps he was busy in Sydney having a look at the garbage tins outside the Reserve Bank. 
-I am pleased to say that the bans have been lifted after a considerable delay. About 25,000 licences have been issued, and I am informed that the Department hopes to catch up with the rest of the backlog of applications in about four weeks. It could be a little longer in a few areas. I have asked that the issuing of licences be expedited as much as possible so as to reduce any inconvenience to the community. 
The Government's decision has been not to proclaim that part of the Act. The Leader of the Opposition refers to the collapse of a substantial permanent building society in Queensland. This matter is of concern, particularly in Queensland and to that financial sector throughout the Australian community. It has to be understood that traditionally building societies have come under State legislation. After difficulty some months ago, the Queensland Government brought in additional legislation so that it could monitor problems that arose. It was out of the monitoring by the Queensland 
Government of the Queensland Permanent Building Society that the decision was taken a few days ago that a liquidator be appointed. 
Let me say to the Leader of the Opposition that, of course, I am in touch with the Queensland Premier and the  Deputy  Premier and Treasurer concerning this matter. Discussions and negotiations are now going on between the Government, the liquidator, other permanent building societies and the trading banks, and some discussion is also taking place with the Reserve Bank of Australia, for the purpose of seeing that a nervousness and concern does not spread throughout the Australian community. I take this opportunity to say that there is no need for Australians to be concerned. This is a matter peculiar to this one society which has had a history of difficulty in investment and some managerial problems for some time. I hope that, in a spirit of co-operation with the Queensland Government, we will see a solution to this problem and a sense of security given not only to investors in that society but also to those who have invested in permanent building societies generally. As to the honourable gentleman's suggestion that the Government should consider proclaiming that part of the Act, I just take note of it 
-Of course, meetings with Premiers are convened from time to time by mutual agreement between the Prime Minister, the Premiers and the Treasurers. I have not been involved in any of those meetings. Like everybody else I am informed as to what is discussed. Any economic matter concerning interest rates, amongst other things, would quite possibly be discussed at such a meeting. However, the honourable member for Mackellar asked me whether I had had an opportunity to study the notice of motion which he gave on 9 March in which he indicated some economic advice to the Treasurer and to me. I regret to say that because of some other matters of concern which have had to have my attention, I have not been able to settle down and study that motion in depth. But given the opportunity before the Treasurer returns to Australia on Friday, I will be very pleased to have a look at the motion and I hope we will find time to have a discussion about it in the next couple of days. 
-I announced on 22 September that the Government would set up such a task force. I hope to have an opportunity in the next day or so of discussing with the Prime Minister the names of some nominees for the position of  chairman  of that task force, in the hope that we can get it moving in the next week or two. There is substantial benefit to be gained if we have more knowledge of the possibility of using domestic satellites within Australia. Of course, it would be a substantial decision for any government to make. Given the difficulties of communication within Australia it will not be possible to bring all the telephone services and all the television viewing facilities to all Australians, irrespective of where they may live, by the traditional means. We just will not have the funds or the capacity to do that. Therefore we are taking the opportunity to look at such a concept. I think the honourable member for Newcastle said when he was speaking to the statement I made that there could well be some merit in this proposal. The honourable member mentioned a report by Telecom Australia. I have discussed that with Telecom. Of course, one of the officers from the Telecommunications Commission will, I hope, be part of this task force. Such an invitation to join certainly has been extended to Telecom. A similar invitation will be extended to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. I want a substantial task force to bring to us all the expertise that is available. I shall give consideration to the honourable member's request to have that report and the other report tabled. 
-Of course, representatives of the industry will be asked for their opinion. We want to get an overall opinion from all of those people who are interested in this matter. The purpose of the exercise is to have available the greatest possible knowledge, competence and expertise both in this country and outside it. Indeed, the statement referred to talking to people in Papua New Guinea and in New 
Zealand, because there could well be an involvement in those countries as well. 
I fear that the concern of the honourable member of Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  with his future and his ambition is leading him into irresponsible statements. Regrettably, the nation is witnessing the reaction - 
We have just heard IS minutes of rag tag, of grizzles, gloom and complaints. It has to be put on record that these are the words of a former Treasurer in the Labor Administration. The honourable member for Oxley forgets bis own record. I think I should remind him of it. I well remember that when I entered this Parliament 5 years ago the requirement for the national expenditure was just over $ 10 billion. Then, $10 billion of the taxpayers funds were required for the national expenditure after 72 years of the Federation of States and after 72 years as a nation. Three years later, the Hayden Budget and the Whitlam Administration more than doubled that requirement. Inflation ran riot. Inflationary expectations ran riot. 
How are these expenditures funded? They were funded by an increase of about 89 per cent in personal income tax and substantial deficit funding. The inflation rate more than doubled to about 17 per cent. Unemployment increased substantially. Manufacturing industry which the honourable member for Oxley dared to talk about today started its substantial decline. Today the honourable member's motion refers to economic uncertainty. If anybody ought to know about economic uncertainty it would be one of the Labor Treasurers. During the Labor Government 's three year period we had rampant inflation, growing unemployment and lack of stability. In relation to my own portfolio, in that three years there was an increase in postal charges from 7c to 18c. That is the Labor Government's record. That is what it cost the Australian community. There have been no increases since. In some areas there have been decreases. The basic charge for telephone calls increased from 4c to 9c That was the sort of wreckage we saw under the Labor Administration. 
What has been our record? Why is the honourable member for Oxley coming into this House today in his unsure and emotional state? He is apparently concerned that before long he might have to go to the nation and compare his record and the record of the Government of which he was a part with ours. We said when we came into Government and we have repeated ever since that the key issue was to get the rate of inflation down. That is what we have done. We have had substantial success. It is now in single figures. There has been a reduction of about 7 per cent. 
One of the ways we have achieved this is by reining in the rate of growth of government expenditure. In doing this we have been concerned about the size of the deficit. The honourable member for Oxley who moved this motion introduced a budget in which he planned a deficit of $2.8 billion. When we achieved office some four or five months later, the deficit was running in excess of $4 billion. Had we not come into office and pulled it back it would have been moving towards $5 billion. The honourable member for Oxley's record of economic management is utterly dismal. 
People ask why the Government is not only concerned about reining in expenditure but also concerned with reducing the deficit. It is difficult to get Labor members of this Parliament to understand that the size of the deficit impinges very much upon Australia's reputation overseas, its currency and its interest rates. The honourable member for Oxley keeps saying that interest rates will continue to increase. He will again be disappointed. He will be seen to be saying things which are incorrect. Interest rates will be nudged down. Part of the Government's policy as we reduce and contain inflation is to lower interest rates in a steady, sustainable way. In contrast to the uncertainty of the economic period from 1973 to 1975, we have had a certainty and stability of policy in fiscal matters. Members of the Labor Party do not like to see the emergence of recovery signs. They are there. We have said consistently that they are there. In some areas they are tentative but the recovery signs in the economy, particularly in regard to investment and the profit share, are there for all to see. We have helped. 
Instead of increasing personal income tax by 89 per cent, what has been the Fraser Government's record in the field of personal income tax? It has undertaken the greatest reform of the taxation system ever undertaken in this country. Not only have we had personal tax indexation, which we pledged we would implement over a three year period but in fact implemented in the first year, but from I February next year there will be substantial reform and simplification of the Australian tax system. In the corporate area- the Whitlam Administration was not concerned about the corporate area- we have encouraged development and growth by the trading stock valuation adjustment and by the investment allowance. We have shown our interest in small business and small companies by easing the requirements of Division 7. Our record in taxation is quite distinct and apart and in substantial contrast with that achieved by the Labor Administration. 
While the Labor Government was in office we saw a substantial decrease in manufacturing throughout this country and what did it do to rural industry? It deliberately set out to wreck and destroy. It acted as utter vandals would act in regard to rural industries. Those honourable members who were here will remember the complete lack of interest and lack of concern on the part of Labor Ministers about what was happening in the great rural industries of this country. 
We are committed to strengthening rural industries. That is why we brought in income equalisation deposits and that is why we are seeking to bring in, and will bring in in the next week or two, provisions relating to the averaging of income tax. That is why we took a stand on the fixing of floor prices for wool. Only a few weeks ago we took the decision to help substantially the important beef industry which is temporarily going through a very difficult period. We are committed to bringing in legislation, and will bring it in in the next few weeks, relating to a rural bank which is so necessary to assist rural industries. 
Compare this Government's record in the field of industrial relations. Again at Question Time today we saw a complete lack of interest in the stability of industrial relations expressed by members of the Labor Party. We have said consistently to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that we want to see greater stability in wages costs throughout Australia. We want to give the nation a chance to be competitive again, to earn export income, and to create job opportunities in our manufacturing industries. 
The honourable member for Oxley, who has left the chamber, got very excited last week because he managed to find in some way or another some unofficial and informal Reserve Bank document which had not come to the Government and which was prepared inside the Bank on the basis of certain assumptions. If people want to prepare a document based on certain assumptions they can come to any decision that they wish. This document fell, either directly or indirectly, into the hands of the honourable member for Oxley, and he seized upon it and used it in a most improper manner to try to sabotage not only the economic wellbeing of this country but, most significantly, as was said yesterday, the standing of the Australian dollar. He was so irresponsible as to make public comments about the Australian currency. So we are seeing a continuation of this attitude of wanting to wreck and to destroy the very valuable program and the process of achievement that has occurred over the last two years. The Reserve Bank placed no importance on the document, as was made perfectly clear by the  Deputy  Governor of the Bank. It was just a document which suited the purpose of the honourable member for Oxley and he used it in a very false way so that he could try to propel himself into leadership of his Party. It is not to his credit at all that he is prepared to operate in such a shabby way. 
The Opposition should realise that its policies have been rejected. It should realise that its policies are not acceptable. It should realise that the nation has overwhelmingly rejected it. The honourable member for Oxley should try to act responsibly as a member of the Opposition. He should try to act responsibly as a member of the national Parliament which is concerned with improving the national economy. But oh, no, the honourable member for Oxley leads the band of gloom.  His  attitude is that if he cannot get into office he will talk down the economy, degrade it, disrupt it and wreck as many opportunities as he can. 
Again today we had from him not only his quite immature suggestion regarding interest rates; he also wants to instil a sense of fear and despondency in the Australian community by talking about a credit squeeze. He well knows that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have said that there will be no credit squeeze, that the monetary policy of this Government is to have sufficient money supply to finance necessary business and commercial development but not at a level which will add to expectations of an inflationary sense. I repeat that interest rates will start to nudge down and there will be no credit squeeze. Business people throughout Australia ought to reject the improper comments of the honourable member for Oxley. 
In this discussion on a matter of public importance the honourable member for Oxley tried to link the comments of the Prime Minister about the economy with the possibility of an early election. The honourable member and the Labor Party continue to speculate on an early election. The Prime Minister will not be goaded into speculation about an early election. The  Deputy  Prime Minister (  Mr Anthony)  will not be goaded into it. I will not be goaded into it, nor do I know what is in the Prime Minister's mind. I suggest to members of the Labor Party that they put a noose around the honourable member for Oxley because I do not think he is doing himself any good. I doubt whether these tactics have helped him. I think that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  would be far more secure in his position now than he was a few weeks ago. I think that the little skirmish over East Timor, about which the honourable member for Oxley got so excited and which he tried to seize on as an opportunity for yet another leadership struggle, has misfired. No doubt the Leader of the Opposition draws some comfort from seeing the honourable member for Oxley fall into such grievous error as he has. 
I have nothing to add to speculation on an early election. The Prime Minister has said that the policy of the Government is to continue along the stable economic path on which it set itself two years ago, a path of certainty and stability, a path from which the Australian people know that we will not depart. It is a path of responsibility. It is to be very much regretted that somebody who achieved the office of Federal Treasurer, although he failed in that office, is now not capable of being big enough to lift himself above this attitude he has of preaching gloom and despair. The Labor Parry had its chance in office. The honourable member for Oxley had his chance as Treasurer and made a mess of it. He mucked it up. He brought the economy of Australia to the brink of disaster but he has learnt nothing and the Labor Party has learnt nothing. We see a continuation- indeed, this week inside the Parliament and last week outside the Parliament- and in fact an acceleration of an irresponsible approach which is an act of vandalism, an act of economic sabotage against Australia. The Government rejects the Opposition's claims in the subject matter of this discussion and the Opposition should have no pride in what it has done. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Bureau of Statistics is not aware of any great demand for either import or production statistics of 8-cylinder engines. Should such a demand emerge, investigations would be undertaken into the practicability and costs of collecting the data. 
The measures announced in the Budget for a transition towards import parity prices for locally produced crude oil and an increase in the excise duty on petroleum products will provide direct incentives for economy in the consumption of such products, including through the use of vehicles with smaller engines. This price-oriented approach to energy conservation avoids the need for less efficient piecemeal policies such as those which appear to be implied by the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. In my statement of 11 March 1977 in my capacity as Minister Assisting the Treasurer, I announced that the Government would be giving consideration to possible approaches to the question of supervision of insurance brokers, including self-regulation, against the background of views expressed by interested parties. However, I would emphasise that the Government is not committed to regulation or to any particular form of regulation at this stage. 
, (4) and (5) I am aware that there have been press reports on the matters referred to. However, there is no authoritative and comprehensive information available on losses incurred in the insurance industry as a result of the failure of insurance brokers and I am therefore unable to comment on the figures referred to by the honourable member. 
Yes. 
I am informed that the Insurance Brokers (Registration) Act of the United Kingdom received royal assent on 29 July 1977. 1 am arranging for the honourable member to be sent a copy of the Act. 
, (9) and (II) The approach adopted in the United Kingdom is being considered along with other proposals for the supervision of insurance brokers in Australia. 
10) These questions are being considered as part of the study referred to under (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not propose to answer this question. It appears to be based substantially on question No. 146 which, on 2 June 1 977, the Treasurer declined to answer on the ground that it had been prepared by an officer of the Attorney-General's Department. 
Uranium: Failure of Government Analyst to give Evidence to Ranger Inquiry (Question No. 1289) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The statistical information collected under the Life Insurance Act I94S in respect of the investments of life insurance companies does not include details of the companies in which shares are held or the industries in which those companies are engaged. However, it is apparent from the information contained in the annual reports published by individual companies- to which I would refer the honourable member if he requires more detailed data- that life insurance companies invest in a broad cross-section of Australian industries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The assumption made-and I stress that it was not more than an assumption- was 10 percent. 
The indexation factor assumed was not less than 10 per cent. 
, (4) and (S) Since the indexation factor assumed was not more than 10 per cent, the remaining elements of the question do not arise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The method of calculating the annual tax indexation factor is set out in the law and is perfectly straightforward: the factor is the increase in the averages of the consumer price index for two consecutive sets of four quarters, each ending with a March quarter, after removing the effects of certain factors specified in the law. The effects of changes in indirect taxes on the price index are removed, and so also are the effects of the introduction of the health insurance levy and of the devaluation of the Australian dollar last year. 
Against that background, I suggest that the honourable member's postulation of a change of method of indexation between one year and another throws doubt on his grasp of the concept. The principle that underlies all three adjustments is similar in each case; the fact that two of the adjustments concerned did not arise until 1977-78 does not alter that. 
As regards 1978-79, the full annual indexation factor will be calculated as described above and applied to dependant rebates, and half that factor to the new simplified personal income tax scale. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In Statement No. 2 certain assumptions relevant to these and other matters are set down which, if realised, would lead to certain outcomes. All such outcomes must be qualified both by the underlying assumptions on which they are based and the range of uncertainties surrounding them. 
No. See answer to ( 1 ). 
No; see discussion of this matter in the Budget Speech and in Statement No. 2 attached thereto. 
See answer to (3). The use by the honourable member of the term 'credit squeeze' is of course entirely misleading. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Question No. 1220 appeared on the Notice Paper for 17 August. I am informed that the Secretary to the Treasury sighted the assertion referred to in the Treasurer's answer to that question (that assertion being of course quite different in important respects from the unsubstantiated allegation advanced by the honourable member in his question) on the morning of 18 August 1977. As a result of processes he had put in hand directed towards the preparation of advice to the Treasurer concerning question No. 1220, a registered confidential file containing the letter from the Department of Overseas Trade conveying the assertion to the Treasury (and also a copy of the reply to that letter) was then delivered to him. 
On the morning of 18August 1977. 
As stated in the answers to questions Nos. 1220 and 1221, the submission to the Minister for Overseas Trade, in which the assertion referred to in those answers was made, was a confidential one. 
No name of any Australian firm or any principal thereof was mentioned in the assertion referred to in the submission in question. I am informed that the person who made the submission has recently affirmed that he has no information which would help to identify the company or persons which were the subject of the assertion. 

 Mr Besley, in his capacity as First Assistant Secretary, Foreign Investment Division of the Treasury was at that time  Chairman  of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee (now replaced by the Foreign Investment Review Board). That Committee was however not a Committee of the Treasury, as suggested by the honourable member, but an interdepartmental body. 
and (7) No; his reply was on behalf of the Treasury. 
The files of the Foreign Investment Division of the Treasury, which include Foreign Investment Advisory Committee papers, are located with the Division in a sub-registry of the Treasury Central Registry. 
No. 
and ( 1 1 ) In the interests of protecting the confidentiality of the source of the submission to the Minister for Overseas Trade and having regard to normal practice, I do not consider it appropriate to table either the advice or the correspondence referred to in these parts of the honourable member's question. However, I can say that the reply to the Department of Overseas Trade, a copy of which I have sighted, indicated that checks had been made following receipt of the assertion that had been passed on by the Department of Overseas Trade but that these checks had drawn a blank. It should of course be noted that the assertion in question, unlike the allegation made by the honourable member in Question No. 1220, did not suggest any impropriety on the part of officials, but rather made an allegation that the principals of the Australian firm said to have been involved ad claimed to have connections with the previous Government. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade and the Treasurer agreed that as part ( 1 ) of question No. 1220 to the Treasurer and part (1) of question No. 1221 to the Minister were in large measure in identical terms, there should be consultation between the two departments, and between the Minister and the Treasurer, in providing answers to those questions. As the honourable member may recall from his own ministerial experience, this is the normal practice in such cases. 
13) As stated in the answers to questions Nos. 1220 and 122 1 the assertion in question was put forward in a confidential submission to the Minister for Overseas Trade and not in a letter received by the Department of Overseas Trade. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Telecom Australia has advised that at 30 June 1 976 
there were 7,513 private telephones (non-business) and 99 public telephones; 
there was one private telephone for every 1 1 people and one public telephone for every 798 people (the population figures were determined from the 1976 preliminary census results). 
The proportions for the metropolitan area of Sydney (based on the Sydney Telephone District) were one private telephone for every 4 people and one public telephone for every 37 5 people. 
The number of telephones installed in the area during 1976-77 was: 
private telephones- 2,018; 
public telephones- 1. 
This makes the proportions one private telephone for every 9 people and one public telephone for every 835 people (population figures- 1976 preliminary census). 
Outstanding applications for private (non-business) telephones held at 30 June 1977 for the Penrith portion of Macquarie were 419 and the average installation time for new telephone services was 37 days. 
Commonwealth Funding of Projects in Federal Electorates (Question No. 1089) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are two formal libraries in my Department both of which were transfered to the Department following the abolition of other organisations. The Sydney library at 153 Walker Street, North Sydney, previously formed part of the Department of the Media organisation and now services both the Broadcasting Division of my Department and the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal at that address. The other library at 570 Bourke Street, Melbourne, prior to 1 January 1977, belonged to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. This library services the Management Services Branch, the Radio Frequency Management and Broadcasting Engineering Divisions of my Department and the Melbourne office of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. It is also available for use by those members of the public who have special interest in the subjects associated with the broadcasting and television fields. 
Both libraries hold many reference books relating to areas in which my Department is primarily concerned as well as books containing statistical and other data of interest to the Department as a whole. The libraries also arrange the circulation of periodicals which contain information on developments in these fields of interest. 
(i) The Postal and Telecommunications Department, or the Postmaster-General's Department as it was then known, was reformed on 1 July 1975 following the establishment of the Australian Telecommunications and Australian Postal Commissions. The newDepartment initially possessed no formal library and only acquired its libraries by the transfers mentioned in ( 1 ) above. It is, therefore, only appropriate to provide answers in respect to the financial years commencing 1976-77. 
(B) Not applicable. 
(a) (b) Sydney-278; Melbourne-1 14. 
Records available do not permit easy separation of books and publications. 
(c) Sydney-104 titles; Melbourne-180 titles. 
(a) (b) Sydney-1432; Melbourne-3290. 
(c) Sydney-104 titles; Melbourne- 1 80 titles. 
(a) (b) Sydney-666; Melbourne-1 10. 
(c) Sydney- Melbourne- no new subscriptions envisaged at this stage. 
3 ) Sydney-$ 1 9,400; Melbourne-$2 3,400. 
The above amounts are based on 1976-77 costs and include salaries and purchases of books, periodicals, newspapers, etc but not overheads such as accommodation, light and power, etc. 
The current approved staffing is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank of Australia has advised that the amounts (expressed in $A equivalent) of documentary letters of credit established by the major trading banks on behalf of Australian importers each month from January 1970 to December 1975 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The updated and revised information for estimated gross interest paid and received by Australian citizens and companies since July 1 972 is given below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. Series 8 carries the same interest rate provisions as Series 7, which it replaced. 
Interest rates paid and charged by permanent building societies vary both as between States and, in some States, as between individual societies. 
No. As well as directly assisting home purchasers, one objective of the home savings gram scheme is to encourage them to save with institutions which provide the bulk of long-term finance for private housing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government does not regard the concept of a full employment surplus or deficit' as a meaningful one for practical purposes. Reasons are set out in my answer provided on 7 September 1976 to Question No. 920  (Hansard,  page 780). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I said in the speech that in the twelve months to the September quarter 1976 real household disposable income increased by 2.9 per cent, reflecting in part the benefit to individuals of the Government's policies in the area of personal tax indexation and family allowances. 
No. 
and (S) Quarterly movements in average weekly earnings and household disposable income have been affected by the timing of National Wage Case decisions, the introduction of personal tax indexation and other tax changes. In the June quarter of 1977 household disposable income deflated, as is appropriate, by the implicit deflator for private consumption was marginally less than its level a year earlier; for 1976-77 as a whole, however, it was 1.6 per cent higher than for 1975-76. The second round of personal tax indexation from 1 July 1977 and the introduction of the new tax scale from 1 February 1978 will provide substantial boosts to household disposable income which, as explained in Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech, is expected to show a noticeable rise over the course of 1 977-78. 
Australian Service Personnel in Great Britain (Question No. 1507) 
-It is true that there have been substantial backlogs of mail, particularly for the areas which the honourable member for Paterson and other honourable members represent. I have no doubt that the figures which he mentioned are accurate. I do not have all of them in mind. A substantial amount of mail has been delayed. The problems are two-fold. Newcastle was the first centre opened under the decentralisation program. It was opened only two or three days ago. Bans were placed upon that centre. I say to the honourable member that the Postal Commission and the Government are quite determined to have a decentralisation program which will avoid all the problems which we have had at Redfern for too lengthy a period. Indeed the Commission is now looking at other possibilities in Sydney because we are sick and tired of the inconvenience caused by the attitude of the Redfern postal workers. The bans at Newcastle and Redfern have now been lifted. That mail is starting to flow. The honourable member mentioned a problem concerning a mail contractor. That is on the Murrurundi-Newcastle run. The unions agreed to the contract. It was understood and agreed, but now bans have been placed upon that. There will be a meeting in Sydney this afternoon. I hope we will resolve that issue because both the Federal Executive and the State Executive of the Australian Postal and 
Telecommunications Union are being cooperative in this instance and are trying to talk common sense to the workers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) All official post offices, excepting the Sydney GPO and the Sydney International Airport Post Office, have been closed on Saturdays since 23 February 1974. However, prior to this date some 1 7 per cent of official post offices had been closed on Saturdays because of the low level of demand for counter services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the commercial television and radio stations which carried the addresses on the subject of uranium by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition on the 28 August 1977 and 4 September 1977 respectively, together with the times of each broadcast. 
Pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 I present the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission 1976-77. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942, is designed to complete the establishment of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and to transfer present Ministerial powers in the broadcasting and television licensing area to the Tribunal. It gives effect to the Government's decision to establish a special broadcasting service. The Bill also updates a number of other provisions to accord with government decisions and policies arising from the restructuring of the Australian broadcasting system. The restructuring of the broadcasting system has resulted from a desire to remedy a number of major deficiencies. 
The Government was concerned at the lack of clarity of the functions and responsibilities of government organisations with an involvement in broadcasting. We were also concerned about the lack of an overall strategic broadcasting policy. This resulted in ad hoc planning and sporadic development. There were obvious weaknesses in co-ordination and liaison between government and non-government broadcasting organisations. We wanted to correct this situation and to provide for industry and public involvement in broadcasting administration, particularly in the licensing area. 
It was considered desirable to provide appropriate machinery which would ensure adequate accountability by licencees for station performance. In addition, the Government was aware of the need to remedy the inefficient use of government engineering resources, and the general inability of the administrative structure to respond to technological developments. As a result of these substantial deficiencies the Government decided in April 1976 to hold an inquiry into the Australian broadcasting system. Such an inquiry was long overdue. 
The inquiry was conducted and its reportreferred to as the Green report- was tabled in both Houses of the Parliament on 9 November 1976. After studying the report, the Government decided upon a number of major changes to the administrative structure of the Australian broadcasting system. 
As a preliminary to complete implementation of the Government's decisions on the restructuring of the broadcasting system, the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Act (No. 2) 1976 was passed by the Parliament. This Act disbanded the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and established the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. It transferred to the Tribunal the licensing and regulatory powers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
It also provided for the planning and technical aspects of broadcasting to be a responsibility of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. In implementing these changes and in proposing the changes contained in this Bill, the Government has been motivated by a number of important principles which it believes should form the basis of the further development of the Australian broadcasting system. Firstly, we believe that the broadcasting frequency spectrum is a valuable public resource. It must be a responsibility of government to plan the allocation of broadcasting frequencies and, through the establishment of appropriate bodies, to provide an administrative structure for the licensing and overall operation of radio and television broadcasting stations. 
Still further, the Government believes it has a responsibility to determine the components of the system, that is, the types of services provided by the sectors which should constitute the system, and the role of those components. We have sought to come to grips with the role of the public broadcasting sector and its relationship with the national and commercial sectors. This contrasts with the casual, incompetent manner in which the previous Government responded to the demand for public broadcasting, particularly in its doubtful method of licensing such stations under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. At the same time as we see the need for government responsibility in these areas, it is our view that responsibility for the licensing and regulatory functions in the broadcasting area should rest with autonomous statutory authorities, rather than with the Government itself. 
The principle of a broadcasting system not subject to political interference is one of the basic aims of the changes proposed in this Bill. The major element of the changes aimed at depoliticising the broadcasting system is the transfer of the licensing power from the Minister to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The broadcasting industry has sought this change for many years and it is considered to be an important factor in achieving more effective broadcasting administration. In addition, we believe it highly desirable that there should be a significant degree of public and industry involvement in the development of broadcasting. 
This medium plays a very important role in the life of most people. Accordingly, the planning and administration of broadcasting should be designed in a manner which will enable it to be responsive to the needs of the community. The Government has not been reluctant to institute procedures to enable the fullest public and industry involvement. The activities of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will, as far as possible, be conducted in public and the public will have substantial access to the inquiry and deliberative activities of the Tribunal. The principle of accountability by broadcasters within the broadcasting system has also been considered as an important element. 
The Government has taken decisions to ensure that broadcasters, making use of a scarce national resource such as frequencies, are accountable for their activities. The Tribunal must be able to justify publicly its deliberative and decision-making activities and in a similar manner, broadcasters will be made to account, at renewal hearings, and in public, for their programming performances. 
The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1977 provides for 
The transfer of the present ministerial powers relating to the licensing of stations; 
The full establishment of the powers and functions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal; 
The transfer of the broadcasting planning responsibility from the Secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department to the Minister; 
Introduction of public inquiries into licence renewals; 
Establishment and constitution of the special broadcasting service; and 
A number of minor and consequential amendments reflecting the above changes and updating or modifying the Act where necessary. 
The Bill empowers the Tribunal to: 
Grant, renew, suspend and revoke licences; 
Authorise transactions relating to the transfer of licences or the admission of other persons to participate in the benefits of a licence; 
Approve changes relating to the ownership and control of licences; 
Set and vary conditions of licences; and 
Collect information pursuant to its functions; and 
Set and administer broadcasting standards. 
The Tribunal will have quasi-judicial powers. In performing its functions, the Tribunal will be required to hold inquiries where it is desirable to do so. The Bill provides that the Tribunal hold such inquiries in public and that it consider all submissions made to it as part of the inquiry process. It is also required to publish reports on its inquiries, detailing its deliberations and the reasons for its decisions and recommendations. The Tribunal may take evidence in private where it considers it desirable to do so by reason of the confidential nature of the material. It may restrict the publication of such material from its reports. The members and staff of the Tribunal will be bound by the rules of secrecy as they apply, for example, to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and other Commonwealth bodies of similar status. 
The Bill provides detailed administrative procedures to be observed by the Tribunal in exercising its powers. In general, these procedures allow for a high degree of public and industry involvement in the Tribunal's decision-making processes. Regarding its responsibility for the setting and administration of standards, the Tribunal, at my direction, recently completed a report on broadcasting standards and the concept of self-regulation. The Government has not yet considered this report. Until we have decided on the final role of the Tribunal in this area, the Tribunal has been asked to maintain the standards administered by the former Control Board. 
The Government has decided, as part of the move to ensure adequate accountability in the administration of the broadcasting system, to extend the present appeals procedures. There must be redress for broadcasters who feel they have been unfairly treated by the Tribunal. The Bill accordingly provides for appeals by licensees to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal against many decisions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
Under the revised administrative structure provided by this Bill, the Minister administering the Broadcasting and Television Act now will be responsible for planning the provision of broadcasting services. We believe that planning the physical development of the broadcasting system is properly a matter for government. It is closely related to its overall communications policy, and to its responsibility for the management of the frequency spectrum. The Minister will initiate the calling of licence applications as part of the planning process and then refer the applications received to the Tribunal for determination. In inviting applications, the Minister will provide specifications for the particular licence. These will indicate the nature of the service to be provided, the area to be served, the purpose of the licence, and other technical matters. These specifications will become, upon grant of the licence, conditions of the licence, in addition to the conditions set by the Tribunal pursuant to its powers. 
I turn now to those types of broadcasting services described as 'special purpose'. The Government has been conscious of a need for the Australian broadcasting system to provide basic broadcasting services to the whole community and not just to parts of the community. Over onequarter of the people in Australia did not have what must be considered a basic broadcasting service, that is, a service in their mother tongue. We inherited from the previous Administration a poorly organised, inadequate multilingual broadcasting service and have sought to respond to a need by Australia 's ethnic communities for a more comprehensive broadcasting service. 
The Government decided to establish a permanent framework, not only for ethnic broadcasting services, but also for other types of special broadcasting services which may be considered necessary or desirable in the future. This Bill provides for the establishment of the Special Broadcasting Service. It will be a statutory authority comprising a part time  Chairman  and not less than two, nor more than six, part time members. The SBS shall be empowered to provide multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorised by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; and to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. 
The SBS shall be administered by an Executive Director, appointed by the GovernorGeneral. Initially, it will be responsible for ethnic broadcasting and for the operation of radio stations 2EA Sydney and 3EA Melbourne. These are presently being operated by my Department. It is envisaged that the SBS may, at a later stage, assume responsibility for other special broadcasting and television services in Australia. New services by the SBS, however, may only be undertaken after parliamentary approval is given and the necessary regulations promulgated. 
The concept behind the SBS is that it will generally provide only those services which would not otherwise be available through the national, commercial or public broadcasting sectors. The SBS will be empowered to fund its operations by the broadcasting of sponsored programs, by charging for the provision of services and facilities and by the sale of programs and rights or interests in programs. These avenues of funding are in addition to moneys appropriated annually from the Parliament to the SBS. The SBS will not, however, derive revenue by means of normal commercial advertising. 
The Bill also contains a number of amendments to the principal Act. These are either consequential to the above changes, or minor amendments which update and standardise a number of provisions to accord with current legislative practice. There are some amendments which do not alter current policy but clarify responsibilities or procedures under the Act. In this category are amendments to those provisions relating to the provision of technical services to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This Bill provides that these services, mainly relating to national transmitters, will be provided to the ABC by the Minister. They were previously provided by the Australian Telecommunications Commission. In practice, Telecom will largely continue to provide these services but on a contract basis. 
The Bill also amends the charter of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to require it, in the performance of its functions, to have regard to the services provided by the Special Broadcasting Service. This amendment is simply intended to avoid duplication of activities by the ABC and the ABS. Further to the belief that a basic broadcasting service should be available to all Australians, the Government has taken decisions to ensure that people in rural and isolated areas have access to as many services as possible. The provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act covering television repeater stations are being amended to facilitate the development of television services in remote areas. The Bill also provides for the licensing of community television aerial systems. They were previously provided under a permit issued by the Minister. 
This Bill contains a number of transitional provisions which serve primarily to enable the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to phase the introduction of the new system of public inquiries into the licensing process and into the general administration of broadcasting matters. In line with the Government's desire to establish an administrative structure for broadcasting which is responsive to industry and public needs and which efficiently and fairly operates for the benefit of the whole community, the Government has undertaken quite extensive consultation in the preparation of this legislation. This consultation has taken the form of representations and submissions from the public and the industry to the Green Inquiry and consultation in the recent past with representatives of the broadcasting industries. There has also been close consultation with those government departments and instrumentalities with an interest in, or with responsibilities in, the broadcasting area. The Bill proposes significant changes in the administration of the Australian broadcasting system. I recognise that there is keen interest by the broadcasting industries and the public in these proposals. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The Honourable the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, asked me without notice on 15 September 1977 whether I would table applications and accounts of  Mr Wiley  Fancher relating to certain telephones installed in Atherton, Queensland. I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition to the Senate  Hansard  of 24 May 1977 (page 1296 et seq.) where his colleague  Senator James  Keeffe read into the record all the information about  Mr Fancher  's telephone accounts that his staff could obtain at the bankruptcy hearings in Townsville. I have followed the practice of each PostmasterGeneral, including those of the Whitlam Government, that matters of commercial confidence concerning telephone accounts will not be disclosed except as necessary for legal proceedings. I suggest that the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition should consult the transcript of the bankruptcy case or the notes taken by  Senator Keeffe  's staff if he wishes further information. 
The Government is concerned, as both the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission are concerned- particularly the Postal Commission- at the disruption to mail and telephone services throughout Australia. The problem with the Postal Commission centres largely upon the Redfern Exchange which, as everybody in this House will be well aware, has been a source of irritation and difficulty for many years. The problem has spread to Newcastle because Newcastle is the first centre in the decentralisation program upon which the Commission has embarked. The decentralisation program will extend not only right throughout New South Wales but within Sydney. We are not going to have a continuation of the sorts of problems that we have had at Redfern. The disruption is designed to ensure that an essential service, the delivery of the mail, is not carried out effectively. Last week the Australian Postal Commission was granted stand-down orders for two classes of people- sorters who refuse to sort mail and others who cannot be gainfully employed. Today in Newcastle employees of the Postal Commission are being stood down. The Government and the Commission are quite determined that this sort of disruption is not going to continue. 
As for the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the problem there is that because of technology we will be able to provide a better service to Australians at a lower cost. Some employees of Telecom are being disruptive because they are not prepared to accept all the advantages that come from the use of technology. Today the Telecommunications Commission is applying for stand-down orders against those employees who will not discharge their proper responsibilities. In the case of the Postal Commission, in which there has been a continuing, unacceptable story, and, regrettably, now in the case of the Telecommunications Commission, the Government, in co-operation and coordination with the respective commissions, is determined to see that these practices are not going to be successful. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government directed the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to give special attention to children's programs in the terms of reference for the recent inquiry into selfregulation. 
A reference was also given to the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts to inquire into the effects of television on childhood development. Public hearings are currently being conducted and the Committee will be tabling its report in 1978. 
3 ) The Government is presently considering the report of the Tribunal. In this report, the strongest recommendation for firmer requirements is in the area of children's television programming. Paragraphs 7.1 to 7.4 and paragraphs 10.54 to 10.167 deal at length with this matter and propose mechanisms whereby the situation will be improved. 
The Tribunal was cognisant of the need to make recommendations which could be viable within the current economic state of the commercial television industry. Consequently, they did not propose, at this stage, the establishment of a body which would require substantial government subsidy, such as a Children 's Television Foundation. 
-One of the real problems we have with postal services is the ability to provide the sort of service that is desired and required within New South Wales. Overall it is regrettable in Australia that in New South Wales, particularly in Redfern, there is a constant disruption which affects the mail service not only within New South Wales but also, because of the size of the Redfern Mail Exchange, throughout Australia. The instance that the honourable member for Macquarie has given the House will indicate the seriousness of the disruption that has been caused by the intolerable attitude of members of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union to the Redfern Mail Exchange. We have had this constant disruption now over a number of years. Former Postmasters-General in the previous administration as well as administration before that will be well aware of the unco-operative- to use the kindest word- attitude of employees at the Redfern Mail Exchange. It is a decision of the Australian Postal Commission, which is completely supported by the Government, that we will not have a continuation of this inability to give adequate service. The Commission has decided to decentralise the distribution of mail within New South Wales. That will have the effect of improving it not only in that State but also throughout Australia. The Commission is determined upon this course and it would have every encouragement from the Government to see that mail services in New South Wales are restored to a satisfactory situation within that State and throughout Australia. 
-The honourable member for Maranoa asks for an assurance that I cannot give him when he asks whether every town in western Queensland will be provided with television facilities, although I recognise that the honourable member represents a very large and important slice of western Queensland. This Government is committed to providing better communication services throughout rural Australia- unlike its predecessor, which, in the course of its three years in office, did everything to downgrade communication services, whether telephone, postal or television viewing facilities. A former Postmaster-General seeks to interject. I remind him of some of the answers that he gave during Question Time to members of the National Country Party who, quite rightly, were pressing for greater and improved services. This Government is committed not only to improving television viewing facilities but also to ensuring that there are adequate services in the whole range of communication. A program of television facilities for this year has been announced. It was limited because of the budgetary constraints. I am now working on a three-year program which I will be putting to the Government and which will give people in rural Australia an indication of this Government's determination to provide adequate services in the not too distant inure. As well, a task force is being set up to look at the possible use of domestic satellites, and if that is embraced before too long it will revolutionise the approach by government to providing services. The honourable member for Maranoa may say to all the people within his electorate that this Government is committed to seeing that their needs in television are satisfied as quickly as possible. 
Pursuant to section 102 of the Postal Services Act 1975 I present an extract from the annual report of the Australian Postal Commission 1977. Printing of the annual report has been delayed because of the Victorian power strike. The full report will be tabled as soon as it is available. 
One can tell, from listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  that an election is on at least in Queensland. A considerable part of his comment was designed to detract from the record of the Queensland Government. I found it extraordinary that he would say that the Queensland Government is not trusted. One would have thought that if a government were not trusted it would not be re-elected each election with an increased majority. I put it to the Leader of the Opposition that the Queensland Government is not only competent but obviously is trusted by those people who have an opportunity to vote for it. 
This question of building societies is a sensitive one. I am not suggesting that the Leader of the Opposition is irresponsible in bringing up this matter of public importance today. I do not believe it is designed to be helpful as regards the stability of permanent building societies. He referred not only to a government that is not trusted but to an unstable Premier. I would have thought that he might have been sufficiently objective to discern that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is a very durable Premier. The least description that one could use of him, the most unacceptable description that one could use of him, is that he is unstable. He can be criticised, but one cannot say that he is unstable; nor can one say that he is unreliable. 
-I know he upsets the Opposition because he belted you the whole of the three years you were in government. He demonstrated your incompetence time and time again. I know you are sensitive about him, but it is not really very helpful to your own position to keep on demonstrating your sensitivity. 
-I am very sorry,  Mr Speaker. 
-I want to make myself perfectly clear. I am certain everybody would recognise my enormous regard for you, . 

 Mr Speaker. When I used the terms as I did I was speaking about the Labor Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition spoke about the Queensland Permanent Building Society and the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society. Let us look at the record. It was the prompt action by State authorities in conjunction with the Commonwealth Government that got the building societies in difficulty back on the rails. The quick decision of the Queensland Government supported by the Federal Government represents clearly evidence of the importance that the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments attach to the building society movement as a major source of housing finance in Queensland and throughout Australia. Let us look at the role of the Reserve Bank of Australia. The best way for everybody to understand the role of the Reserve Bank is to refer to what the  Deputy  Governor has said. He stated: 
This action - 
That is the action that was taken to assist- is a particular instance of the general arrangements by which, against the background of the Reserve Bank's support of banking liquidity, banks stand behind financial institutions which are responsibly managed and have adequate asset backing. 
That has been said time and time again. It was because of the attitude of the Reserve Bank and the Government that the position in Queensland- the problem is largely one that has emerged in Queensland- has now been stabilised. The matter of public importance being discussed today will not be helpful in creating the sort of confidence that is necessary in the permanent building societies and, indeed, in financial institutions other than banks. What has to be recognised is that the depositors have lost nothing. They have nothing to fear. I hope that out of this debate today comes a clear understandingthe Queensland constituents have it on record from the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Governor of the Reserve Bank- that there is nothing to fear. I am concerned with seeing that that message gets through today in case comments made by members of the Opposition are misunderstood. Depositors have nothing to fear by way of loss of either capital or interest. One would have expected that the Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition economic spokesman would have wanted to contribute in a way which caused greater stability, not simply to try to use the forms of the House as part of a Queensland election campaign. In contrast again to what the Leader of the Opposition has said I refer to what  Mr Crean  had to say in a second reading speech when he was Treasurer. He said: 
The financial Corporations Act was designed for purposes of general economic management and not the financial stability of particular institutions or the protection of borrowers and lenders. 
That is what one of three Treasurers in the Whitlam Government had to say. Maybe a later Treasurer had a different view. That would not be surprising. We became rather used to different views and different policies of the Ministers in the previous Administration. Under Part IV of the Financial Corporations Act which was referred to you by the Leader of the Opposition, which has not yet been proclaimed, the Government may impose controls in relation to asset ratios, lending policies and interest rates receivable or payable by financial corporations, including building societies. These powers would not enable the Government to control the balance sheet structures of individual societies or to ensure their financial stability; nor could they protect against bad management, incompetence, fraud or anything similar. Such controls, therefore, would not provide protection to the borrowers and lenders in individual societies; nor would they have prevented the collapse of the Queensland Permanent Building Society. Again in contrast to what the Leader of the Opposition has informed the Parliament is what the industry has to say. The Leader of the Opposition said that the industry would be happy to support the proclamation of Part IV. As Minister Assisting the Treasurer I received a letter dated 2 1 October from the Association of Australian Permanent Building Societies. Part of the letter reads: 
As regards the use of Part IV of the Financial Corporations Act, I confirm the Association's opinion that this would not contribute to the solution of the problems which arose in Queensland nor to greater stability in the longer term. Of particular concern is that the financial media and the public would perceive the proclamation of Part IV as providing federal monetary authorities with the mechanism to prevent these occurrences. This, of course, would be a total misconception of the Financial Corporations Act and the powers provided under Part IV. 
That is part of a letter from the Association of Australian Permanent Building Societies which I received only a few days ago. Quite clearly, the Leader of the Opposition has made comment in contrast to the views of one of his Treasurers and in contrast to what the Australian Permanent Building Societies spokesman has to say to the present Government. With regard to housing finance generally, it may be useful to put on record what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech, because this Government is concerned that adequate finance should be available for housing. The Treasurer said: 
The Government has been concerned, in reviewing the overall housing scene, to ensure that availability of finance is not a barrier to steady and sustainable growth in home building activity, including additions and renovations. 
If borrowers are credit worthy, we would not want them to be denied housing finance because of official restraints. 
Accordingly, the Government has advised the Reserve Bank that it wants to see banks and other financial institutions encouraged to increase their lending for private home building, particularly in those States and areas where the capacity of trie building industry is under-utilised. 
It is of course being left to individual lenders to determine their levels of lending, taking into account their particular balance sheet positions and their assessments of the housing situation in their areas of operations. 
The Government wants to co-operate with the private sector to ensure that adequate finance is available for an increasing housing industry. As further evidence of the Government's concern to maintain an adequate level for housing finance, the Reserve Bank has said to banks: 
Against the background of the policy of encouraging housing finance, their lending operations might as far as practicable keep in view the desirability of some added temporary emphasis on housing lending in Queensland to ameliorate in part the expected small temporary drop in lending for housing arising from the recent experience of building societies. 
Therefore the Government has moved to see that the regrettable but temporary problems of the permanent building societies in Queensland with regard to finance available for housing will be ameliorated. For the record let us look at the permanent building societies' loans approval. In the September quarter of 1976 the overall approvals totalled $354m and Queensland 's portion of that was $53m. A year later, in the September quarter of 1977, the total has risen to $500m and Queensland's portion to $64m. So despite the problems there has been a substantial increase in loan approvals by permanent building societies throughout Australia and particularly in Queensland. The Government has made it perfectly clear to permanent building societies directly and through the Reserve Bank that it wants them to have the greatest degree of flexibility to increase available finance for housing throughout Australia. Despite the comments of the Leader of the Opposition, the quick decisions of the Queensland Government have res.tored confidence and we will see an improvement before long in housing activity through the permanent building societies in that State. This question of how much Commonwealth involvement there ought to be in the permanent building societies and the financial institutions under the Financial Corporations Act is one for valid debate. But it is not the best way to debate it on the basis that there have been problems in Queensland and in reaction to those problems there ought to be some instinctive reaction. 
Let me say quite clearly that this Government's view is that the responsibility for maintaining surveillance of the activities of permanent building societies currently and traditionally rests with the State governments which have available specific legislation concerning the rights of borrowers and lenders and the stability of building societies and the administrative machinery necessary to discharge that responsibility. This is not to say that there is not room for improvement in some areas or that societies should not be taking action to reduce their exposure to unfounded losses of investor confidence. Naturally the Government keeps these kinds of matters under constant review. This is what we are doing. We have been very closely monitoring the problems within Queensland. We have been in constant consultation with the Reserve Bank, with the trading banks and with the permanent building societies with a view to ensuring that decisions of the Government are made, first of all, to restore as quickly as possible confidence in the permanent building societies. 
I am bound to observe that part of the problem- and only part of it- has been that Queensland Labor politicians- one in particularused one of the permanent building societies as part of a political ploy to create problems within that particular financial structure. This Government sees the permanent building societies as being very important and having a very important role to play. Through the Reserve Bank we will stand behind those that are well managed and those that have adequate asset backing. They need have no fear. The Government, through the Reserve Bank, will always ensure that there is sufficient liquidity for those building societies to discharge their responsibilities. I do not think it is helpful to have a debate such as this which the Leader of the Opposition is obviously using as part of the Queensland election campaign. This is a very serious matter. We are dealing with a host of small investors whose life savings are involved. 
-I am glad that the Leader of the Opposition is assuring the House that he has concern for small investors. They are the people this Government are concerned about. This Government will not embrace quickly a policy which simply means more government intervention in the market place. 
I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 20 September be varied by next considering the proposed expenditure for the Department of Defence. 
Department of Defence 
Proposed expenditure, $2, 1 86, 1 80,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

Subscribers Equipment (Subscribers Instruments and Distribution Cable) 
Totals 
What was said on the ABC news this morning was part of an answer I gave to a question which came from a conference that I attended in Surfer's Paradise yesterday when one of the delegates asked me about that matter. I said, as I repeat to the honourable member, that the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal report, which we got a couple of months ago, has made recommendations to delete the present relevant provisions in the Act. I have also made it quite clear to the House that the Tribunal's report has not been studied by the Government. In fact, I gave first of all to the end of September and then to the end of October for people to express their views to the Government. 
I went on to say that when I had considered submissions to me and the report I would make recommendations to the Government and if there was to be a change in that Act, obviously it would be a decision for the Government. I did express the personal point of view that I thought the law was outdated and outmoded and I still think so. 
The arrangement with regard to publications registered with Australia Post is that they must meet certain conditions and criteria. One of the main conditions is that those publications must be carried exclusively by Australia Post My understanding is that in the case of a number of suburban and outer city newspapers, many are distributed free. They thrown over the fence or distributed in other ways. Australia Post has been asked on occasions to service only 5 per cent. The S per cent it has been asked to service has been that portion which is the most expensive to distribute. By-law 1 18 of Australia Post states that it will give registered publication status only where Australia Post carries those publications exclusively. I am aware of the significance and the importance of these sorts of newspapers in the community. I assure the right honourable gentleman that I will take up a review of that by-law with the  Chairman  of the Postal Commission. 
Pursuant to section 102 of the Postal Services Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Australian Postal Commission 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The decision to close a Post Office is made only after a study of the volume of business handled, the likely future business that may eventuate, the general trend of development in the area and the ability of the postal network in the area to meet the postal needs of the community. 
Generally, action to close a non-official post office is not taken in isolation but as a result of some other occurrence such as: resignation, death or dismissal of the postmaster lack of suitable accommodation for the continuation of the office conversion of a manual telephone exchange to automatic operation rearrangement or relocation of existing facilities of services provision of new postal facilities or services in the area. 
Since 1 January 1969 the following non-official post offices have been closed in the electoral division of Bowman: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The trading figures for the Carina East Non-official Post Office are as follows: 
The major portion of the revenue is derived from postage stamp sales. Costs, additional to the above, which must be set against the revenue include the expenses spread across the mail network for the service provided, i.e. transport, sorting and delivery. 
Australia Post is continually reviewing its network of post offices to ensure that customers' needs are being met in the most effective manner. 
With the opening early next year of the new shopping complex in Wynnum Road, Murarrie, the opportunity will be taken to make adjustments to the network of post offices in the area. 
The Cannon Hill Post Office, which is at present poorly located in terms of the customers it serves, will be relocated in the new shopping complex bringing it within about 2 kms of the Carina East Non-official Post Office and within a much shorter distance of the Murarrie Non-official Post Office. 
Past experience has shown that whenever a large shopping complex is established, customer patronage is drawn away from surrounding post offices to the office within the complex. It is proposed, therefore, to close the Carina East and Murarrie Post Offices in conjunction with the relocation of the Cannon Hill Post Office. 
While some residents close to the Carina East Post Office may consider they would be inconvenienced by the closing of this office, most residents in the general area would benefit through being able to transact their postal business at the larger official post office when they do their other shopping at the complex. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The actual cost specifically incurred for the coverage of this event has not yet been established. It will take some time before final accounts for various items of expenditure are received by the Australian Broadcasting Commission's New York office and from outside organisations. These accounts then have to be checked and apportioned in accordance with agreements made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission with other organisations for the sharing of costs. 
Precise cost estimates could not be made before the event because of the various possibilities of Australian involvement, depending on the outcome of the elimination races. 
The superannuation scheme for government employees is a very generous one. It is a good scheme. The benefits are to be adjusted by one times the rise in the consumer price index. During the Budget discussions the Government gave consideration to imposing a limitation which had been in that scheme before. The limitation was that if the rise in average weekly earnings was lower than the rise in the consumer price index the adjustment would be in line with the rise in average weekly earnings. It has been decided that that limitation will not be proceeded with and that benefits will be adjusted annually in accordance with rises in the CPI 
Let me reassure the honourable member for Kennedy that, as I have indicated before to him and other members of the Parliament, the Government is determined to see that television viewing facilities are made available to all Australians. There are expenditure difficulties and a limitation to the engineering capacity of the Postal and Telecommunications Department and Telecom Australia to satisfy all the requirements as quickly as we would wish. 
I cannot give the honourable member a definite time-table today for the area of Pentland in his electorate. I can only say that the Department and I are looking very closely at a number of short term and long term schemes that might ease and, I hope, solve the majority, if not all, of the problems that exist. We are committed to assisting communications generally, whether they apply to postal services or telecommunications services. I am working closely with my colleagues to ensure that the television viewing services that the honourable member wants for his constituents are provided as quickly as possible. 
Pursuant to section 99 of the Telecommunications Act 197S I present the annual report of the Australian Telecommunications Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The Government rejects the proposed new clause. I wish to thank the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for his interest. We have had the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on self regulation. It touches this particular area. Any acceptance of proposed new clause 2a would pre-empt the Government's consideration of that Tribunal report which addresses itself to the broadcasting council. It suggests as an alternative a broadcasting information office. The Government will consider early in the next year that Tribunal report, as well as the submissions we have received from the community and from interested organisations. Any amendments which may flow on from that consideration will be examined at that time. Therefore, the Government cannot accept the proposed new clause. 
I cannot satisfy the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  if he fills his mind full of suspicion and doubt. I do not think anything I could say would get rid of that. Indeed the Government has nothing in mind about additional appointments. This clause is simply designed to give an appointee reasonable time to divest himself of his interest. The honourable member knows that the Government gets a short list of possible members for such appointments. It appears quite unreasonable to ask them to divest themselves of any pecuniary interests until they have actually been appointed. It is an Executive Council appointment. Therefore the 14 days is seen as a reasonable time for somebody to divest himself of a pecuniary interest. It could be of an indirect nature. It could be a few shares in a large corporation which has a prescribed interest in television or radio stations, o the purpose of the clause is simply to give to people who have accepted an appointment by the Executive Council a reasonable amount of time to divest themselves of any pecuniary interest that they might have. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
I reassure the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  that there is no need to be concerned about anything being sinister. It is simply a matter of common sense that there may be a division within the Tribunal. Obviously we do not want to send a number of members of the Tribunal all over Australia to look at various matters. No single member can decide a matter. A decision is for the full Tribunal or a quorum of the Tribunal. Obviously that is important in matters of policy. 
-No, it does not. 
The powers of the Tribunal do not extend to the making of a decision. That is the whole purpose of it. A division may discharge a responsibility but the decision must be for the whole Tribunal or a quorum thereof. 
Let me say first of aU in reply to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that the Government cannot accept his three amendments. I repeat what I said m regard to his earlier amendment, that we do not want to pre-empt the Government's consideration of the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, and the report impinges particularly upon the honourable member's first two amendments. The time for the industry and the community to respond to that report expired at the end of October. The Government wishes to consider it in relation to the submissions received. 
The honourable member for Mackellar raised matters which are obviously of concern to him. On the question of standards, particularly as they apply to children's programs, of course it is a matter of some significance. A great deal of interest was shown in the public inquiry which went to every part of Australia. A number of community leaders from all walks of life made contributions to it. I think the Tribunal's report will be valuable. The comments upon it will be considered before the Government reaches a decision. Recommendations will come to the Parliament next year. In the meantime, the honourable member for Mackellar is wrong in thinking that standards do not apply. I have written to the Tribunal and, pending any reconsideration or any alteration of the standards, those standards that apply, that are laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, will continue to apply. So there is no change in the standards that apply and the Tribunal has accepted that request from me and will see that the standards are maintained. We will have an opportunity in the early months of next year to consider the Tribunal's report and the Government's consideration of it. 
I say to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  that one would expect such a tribunal to act impartially and properly. Its main concern and interest is in the granting of licences. That is the core of its responsibility. It does not have the same responsibility as the old Broadcasting Control Board. It was felt to be desirable that we split it - 
-The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has a point It is understood by me and I am certain by members of the community and by the Parliament that the Tribunal W111 act impartially. When we come to clause 181 shall be moving an amendment As to the question of debating what, is natural justice, may I defer that to a more appropriate time? 
I move: 
After proposed section 80, insert the following section: " '80a. In the performance of its functions under this Part, the Tribunal shall act fairly and impartially and shall observe the rules of natural justice. ". 
Earlier this evening we had some discussion and debate upon that topic. It is the Government's  belief that it is useful to spell that matter out in this proposed new clause which particularly deals with the granting and renewal of licences. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I seek leave to move my two amendments together. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
After sub-section ( 1 ) of proposed section 8 1 , insert the following sub-section: " '( 1a) In deciding whether to grant or renew a licence and in determining the conditions upon which or the form in accordance with which a licence is to be granted or renewed, the Tribunal shall have due regard to the need for the commercial viability of the commercial broadcasting and television stations in the area served or to be served in pursuance of the licence.". 
Flowing from that amendment is a further amendment to insert a sub-section after proposed section 85 which deals with variations of conditions. I move: 
After sub-section ( 1 ) of proposed section 85, insert the following sub-section: " '( lA) In deciding whether to vary or revoke any of the conditions of a licence or to impose further conditions in respect of a licence, the Tribunal shall have due regard to the need for the commercial viability of the commercial broadcasting and television stations in the area served in pursuance of the licence.". 
The Government commends these amendments to the House as being desirable for the orderly conduct of the Tribunal's proceedings. 
I want to make one or two statements of fact because there has been a fair bit of fantasy in the Committee tonight. It is quite obvious that some members of the Opposition do not understand the legislation we are considering. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  talked about the forces of the market place. Of course the forces of the market place have a very real role to play in a private enterprise economy. But in relation to broadcasting, the whole thrust of the Government's policy is that in addition to the forces of the market place there has to be a public accountability by broadcasters as to the way in which they discharge their responsibilities. 
There has been a lot of loose talk- that is about the kindest phrase I can use- with regard to profits. It is very true at the moment to say that because of the introduction of colour television, the television industry in the large cities of Australia is having a very profitable period. One of course should not lose sight of the fact that there has been investment in that area for 20 years now and that such profitability did not always exist. However one cannot use the broad brush like that because it can be pointed out when the Tribunal takes into account commercial viability, that a number, in fact several, country radio stations are not profitable. If we are considering the broadcasting service throughout Australia then we must take into account the viability and stability of the components right throughout the country, not just selective large corporations. Some of the ones the honourable member referred to tonight just do not depend on television for their profits. 
The point I make is that nobody denies that some television companies are going through a period of substantial profitability. Nevertheless, overall there is a necessity to take into account the commercial viability of the system. I do not think that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  could have quite understood proposed new sections 82 and 84 because when a licence is granted of course it is granted by me, as the Minister, upon certain specifications. Proposed section 84 (2) simply states that the conditions of the licence are: 
the specifications so determined by the Minister; 
We have to refer back to proposed new section 82. It is those specifications upon which the applications for the licence were first considered. I believe it is a responsibility of government, through the Minister, to be able to lay down specifications. We are not dealing with the old 
Australian Broadcasting Control Board; we are dealing with the new Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. It is the role of government through the Minister, to be concerned with planning, which is very much akin to policy. Therefore, in calling for applications for a new licence, of course it is desirable that the Minister should spell out the technical specifications. In the granting of the licence those same specifications are used and, in addition, whatever decisions the Tribunal may make are taken into account. To suggest in any way that that gives a Minister the right to interfere in the programming of a particular broadcasting or television station I am afraid just is not, and cannot, be acceptable. 
I hope that when the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  reads the  Hansard  report tomorrow morning of what he said he will hide it from ethnic communities in his electorate. Really, he made an attack on the ethnic communities when he said he was not in favour of the setting up of the Special Broadcasting Service. The honourable member for Burke was unhappy with the functions of the Service. They are: 
to provide multilingual broadcasting services and, if authorised by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; and 
to provide broadcasting and television services for such special purposes as are prescribed. 
The present Government, in its policy speech prior to the last election, said that it would set up a statutory permanent authority to look after ethnic broadcasting. That was the policy we spelt out and the policy which we are now proceeding to implement. One could have done so through the Australian Broadcasting Commission but the ethnic communities themselves wanted to have their own statutory authority. We called it the Special Broadcasting Service because it may well prove desirable for the Government, in the years ahead, if there is a request, to provide some special broadcasting service for example, to the Aborigines throughout Australia or to the social welfare area. Therefore this Special Broadcasting Service is being set up. It is a statutory authority. It has its own commission. It will virtually be conducted upon similar lines to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. When honourable members opposite make an attack upon it, they make an attack upon the concept which the ethnic communities throughout Australia are applauding. It will provide a great opportunity for ethnic broadcasters. They are now being interviewed. Forty of them will be joining the staff to provide for many hundreds of thousands of Australians a service which is long overdue. The point the honourable member made was that somehow a Minister could interfere with programming. 
-Well, let us dispose of that. I remind the honourable member that this Special Broadcasting Service will be a statutory authority. It will have commissioners whom we will appoint before too long. There is also the advisory council which has already been set up and there are State advisory councils which are already set up. The Bill quite clearly says that any extension of this service beyond ethnic radio broadcasting will be a matter of separate decision by the Government, by the Cabinet. After discussion within the Party room the matter will come into the Parliament and, as the honourable member will know, will be prescribed by regulation which can be debated and disallowed in the Parliament. Is the honourable member going to suggest that every decision of the Government with regard to broadcasting will require a separate Bill? The contention of the honourable member for Burke that this legislation will allow a Minister to decide what the programs will be in the Special Broadcasting Service is of course patently ridiculous. 
This is one of the major policy initiatives of the Government of which we are very proud. We are giving to the ethnic community for the first time a permanent structure for ethnic broadcasting. Honourable members opposite are obviously very sensitive tonight because they know that whilst they experimented with broadcasting for the ethnic communities they made no attempt to set up what we are setting up by way of a statutory authority, with all the provisions and all the safeguards of a statutory authority- a permanent structure within which the ethnic communities can play a very real and vital role. This is one of the most desirable pieces of legislation. It will be applauded by every ethnic community and group throughout this nation. Honourable members opposite are worried; that is why they were interjecting so much. 
(9.38)- I move: 
In paragraph (d) of sub-section (1) of proposed section 1 19a, omit ', where no inquiry was held in relation to the renewal of the licence '. 
The purpose of this amendment is to allow for an appeal if any licence is renewed for less than three years whether or not there has been a public inquiry. As printed, this clause does not give the right of appeal for a licence renewed for less than three years if there has been a public inquiry. We wish to omit the words set out in the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I will move my amendment first. I move: 
After sub-section (2) of proposed section 1 19a, insert the following sub-section: '(2a) For the purposes of a review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in pursuance of an application referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), the Tribunal shall be constituted by a presidential member alone. '. 
This amendment is simply to ensure that for the purposes of a review the Administrative Appeals Tribunal shall be constituted by one member, the presidential member, alone. 
I will respond quickly to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I regret that I cannot embrace the suggestion that he puts to the Government. I believe that there has to be a limit to the right of appeal. This clause is designed to give licensees that particular right. I think it is neither desirable nor necessary to have a situation which means that any interested party can clutter up the appeal procedure. 
Clause as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave-taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this 
Bill and the Commonwealth Electoral (Redistribution) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, but put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-Yesterday I received a letter from the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, to which I wish to refer. I inform the House that towards the middle of September the Channel 0-TEN network decided to do an hour-long general interest television program called 'Life At The Top'. It was based upon a week in the life of the Prime Minister. The decision was reached because of the general interest and audience appeal of the program. The television program was screened in late October. On 27 October  Mr Combe,  the National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party, wrote to the  Chairman  of the Broadcasting Tribunal. I quote from part of his letter 
Dear Mr Gyngell 
I write to inform you and the Tribunal of correspondence which was directed by me earlier this week to the  Chairman  of television station TEN Sydney regarding what we believe to be a serious breach of balance in respect of political programming. 
Attached is a photocopy of this correspondence which was forwarded Priority Paid to  Sir Kenneth  Humphries on Monday morning last; to date no reply has been received. 
I do not want to read all the letter. It demands equal time for the Australian Labor Party and for the Tribunal to give this matter consideration. Because a formal request was made to the Tribunal,  Mr Gyngell  convened a meeting of the Tribunal to consider the demand of the National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party.  Mr Gyngell  informed me by letter 
The Tribunal viewed the program yesterday and decided that it did not have the power to act on  Mr Combe  's demand for equal time for the Opposition as it is not yet the election period for the Federal election. 
The interesting letter to which I wish to refer is the letter that  Mr Combe  wrote to  Sir Kenneth  Humphries. I quote from part of that letter 
I read this morning with some concern that your station has prepared and is putting to air next Friday night at prime time an hour long documentary about the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser.  My concern is based on the fact that to the best of my knowledge no opportunity has yet been given to the Opposition to have an hour of prune time on your channel. 
A later paragraph states: 
After our experiences of recent years the ALP has no intention of sitting by compliantly while it is being in its opinion screwed by television station licensees. 
It further states: 
Therefore 1 deem it appropriate that you should provide an hour of prime time to the ALP as the official Opposition. While I would prefer that such an hour be given to a similar documentary on a week with the Opposition Leader, I am certain that we could negotiate a program which would be mutually acceptable. 

 Mr Combe wants to negotiate a television program. I point out to the Leader of the Opposition that  Mr Combe  was not quite sure whether he wanted a week with the Leader of the Opposition or whether he wanted to use the television time in some other manner. I think the most interesting paragraph of the letter is the last paragraph. It states: 
However, in the event of us failing to receive equality of opportunity to that which is being given to the Prime Minister, I would undoubtedly find it necessary to recommend to our Executive that we lodge a formal complaint to the Broadcasting Tribunal and that failure to receive satisfaction should lead to us contesting your right to have your licence renewed when next it is under consideration. 
We see a most sinister threat by the National Secretary of the Australian Labor Party to the freedom of the media. After listening to the comments of members of the Labor Party last night in the debate on the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill, I can only conclude that this is a first-class example of the most insidious danger to this country should the ALP ever have the control of the media again. 
-Would you like it incorporated in  Hansard? 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to have the three letters incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The letters read as follows- 


 Sir Kenneth Humphries, 
Chairman of TEN, 
Channel 10, 
Epping and Pittwater Roads, 
NorthRyde,NSW2113 
Dear  Sir Kenneth, 
I write to you rather than to your General Manager because of my belief that it is more appropriate that you should consider the matter which I am raising. Whilst I have no doubt that  Mr Kennon  is a most competent and effective General Manager for your station he was, nevertheless, closely associated with the formulation and production of the now infamous television commercials produced by  Mr John  Singleton at the 1974 election, and must therefore be assumed to have close association with our political opponents. 
I read this morning with some concern that your station has prepared and is putting to air next Friday night at prime time an hour long documentary about the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser.  My concern is based on the fact that to the best of my knowledge no opportunity has yet been given to the Opposition to have an hour of prime time on your channel. 
Your are no doubt aware of and have probably read my evidence to the recent Broadcasting Tribunal Inquiry into self-regulation of television stations. Equally, I am sure you are aware of the Tribunal's Report in so far as political con- - tent is concerned. While it did not recommend amendments to the law to enforce equality of treatment of both sides of politics it did give strong support to the principle that licencees were obligated to be fair and equal. 
You will be aware that I brought to the Tribunal evidence showing that some stations in Australia had been most unfair and inequitable in their treatment of political parties in non election periods. In particular I made reference to the times at which Addresses to the Nation from the Prime Minister and the Opposition Leader have been put to air on some stations. In the case of your station I made reference to the fact that, using the April 6 and April 13 addresses as an example,  Mr Fraser  had been put to air at the prime viewing time of 7.30 p.m. and that  Mr Whitlam  had competed with the National Anthem one week later at 1 1.58 p.m. 
After our experiences of recent years the ALP has no intention of sitting by compliantly while it is being in its opinion screwed by television station licencees. 
This brings me back to the program in question. The proposed one hour long documentary, as it was filmed at a time when the Prime Minister was clearly seen to be engaged in an election campaign, can be viewed by us only as a gift of an hour of prime time to the Government parties. I am sure that not even the most ignorant Australian would argue that at the time the documentary was filmed there was not a better than reasonable prospect of a general election in 1977. (Need I remind you that as long ago as early March I was able to forecast that such an election would take place). 
Therefore I deem it appropriate that you should provide an hour of prime time to the ALP as the official Opposition. While I would prefer that such an hour be given to a similar documentary on a week with the Opposition Leader, I am certain that we could negotiate a program which would be mutually acceptable. 
However, in the event of us failing to receive equality of opportunity to that which is being given to the Prime Minister, I would undoubtedly find it necessary to recommend to our Executive that we lodge a  formal  complaint to the Broadcasting Tribunal and that failure to receive satisfaction should lead to us contesting your right to have your licence renewed when next it is under consideration. 
Your early response would be appreciated. 
Your sincerely, 
D. COMBE 
National Secretary 

 Mr Bruce Gyngell 
Chairman 
Australian Broadcasting Tribunal 
PO Box 1308 
North Sydney 
New South Wales 2060 27 October 1977 
Dear  Mr Gyngell, 
I write to inform you and the Tribunal of correspondence which was directed by me earlier this week to the  Chairman  of television station TEN Sydney regarding what we believe to be a serious breach of balance in respect of political programming. 
Attached is a photocopy of this correspondence which was forwarded Priority Paid to  Sir Kenneth  Humphries on Monday morning last; to date no reply has been received. 
Since writing to  Sir Kenneth  it has come to my notice that the program in question was a most recent scheduling in that the current issue of  TV Times  indicates that the scheduled program for the 7.30 p.m. time slot on Friday night is emergency'. 
I am sure you will agree that we can be forgiven for thinking that the decision to replace that program with the hourlong documentary on Prime Minister Fraser was indeed an emergency one prompted by anticipation of that gentleman's announcement of a general election on 10 December 1977. 
I should advise you that I took the liberty of forwarding for information a copy of my letter to  Sir Kenneth  to the General Managers or television stations in the O/TEN network in Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide; subsequently I have learnt that the program in question was screened last evening in prime time by ChannelO Melbourne. 
In view of the fact that no approach has been received by us from Channel O Melbourne regarding the provision of equal opportunity and time and that no reply to my correspondence to  Sir Kenneth  has been received, 1 now ask your Tribunal to exercise its influence to ensure that, consistent with the sentiments expressed in your recent report, equal opportunity is provided to the Australian Labor Party. Action on your part to ensure the provision of such opportunity is fundamental to the establishment of your Tribunal as an effective body which cannot be manipulated by the government of the day to its own partisan political purposes. 
I look forward to your early reply. 
Yours sincerely, 
D. Combe 
National Secretary 
-I do hope that nobody ever runs the risk of putting you on the board of any commercial organisation because, frankly, the way you juggle figures up in the air and the way they fall out is appalling. I refer to the comments you made last night in which you referred to the dividend rate of some companies throughout Australia. You referred to the dividend rate as if it applied to the share issue, not to the market value of the shares. 
Before I address myself to some of the comments, let us just look at the record. You are asking us to consider the lowering of charges. For the last two year period basic charges have been held. Indeed, a number of initiatives have been taken which have reduced charges, particularly in rural areas. Now that is in contradiction and in contrast to what you people- yourselves and the Commission- did in three years. The basic charges for telephone calls went up from 4c to 9c in a three-year period. In the two years that we have been in office, despite the fact that we have had a rate of inflation which although now moderating has had to be contended with, because we have shown a great deal of concern and interest and have had co-ordination with the Commission we have increased services and have held charges. 
Let us look at this surplus. You well know what are the provisions of the Act. You well  know that under the provisions Telecom has to find at least SO per cent of its capital requirement out of internal revenue- by way of depreciation, by way of long service leave and by way of surplus. Yet you use a figure of 47 per cent when the return on capital invested in Telecom is of the order of 2 per cent to 3 per cent. On the capital invested in Telecom, the surplus is of the order of 2 per cent to 3 per cent Indeed, this Government, with the co-operation it has had from the Commission - 
The advertisements do demonstrate the contribution that the Australian Telecommunications Commission is making to communications generally throughout Australia. What has not been recognised by members of this House and indeed by the community at large is the substantial number of initiatives which Telecom Australia is taking to improve services throughout the country. When loose comments are made as to the so-called profit or surplus of Telecom, people lose sight of the fact that under an Act of this Parliament there is a need for the Commission to find at least 50 per cent of capital works, long service leave and depreciation allowances out of revenue. That is a decision of this Parliament. The capital requirement for Telecom Australia this year alone is over $900m. If we talk of the capital involvement in Telecom we are talking of the order of $6,000m. So the surplus has to be seen in relation to that. 
Generally speaking, I think that the Parliament and certainly the Government are very pleased with the relationship with the Telecommunications Commission. I know from my discussions with the Commission that it is seeking and will continue to seek ways and means of improving communications, particularly in the rural areas of Australia. We have a vast island continent. Regrettably in some parts of it the population is shrinking and it is terribly difficult to maintain the services that Telecom would wish. I believe that a greater acknowledgment by members of this Parliament and by the community as a whole of the immense contribution Telecom makes would be helpful. After all, all surplus is ploughed back for the benefit of the system. The Australian community owns Telecom and any surplus that is made is of course used for the benefit of increased communications. 
In this growth market members of the Opposition would do well to seek to use whatever influence they have to get people in the trade union movement to co-operate in the use of the technology that is available. Regrettably at the moment some members of the trade union movement want to set their face against technology. If we are to have the best possible communications in Australia we have to use technology and we have to pursue development. I hope that each and every one of us will make a contribution in that way. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In my speech on 28 February 1977 1 said that the total revenue forgone in respect of decisions already taken by the Government exceeded $2000m annually. 
The estimated revenue forgone as a result of the application of the various measures for the 1976-77 financial year is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Telecom Australia advises that statistics showing the incidence of public telephone faults attributable to vandalism are maintained on a Telecommunications District basis. 
The St George electoral division covers about half of the Newtown and Sutherland Telecommunications Districts. Public telephones in these two Districts average eight vandalism faults per unit per year with the rate on some units being up to 30 faults per year. 
Approximately $3m. 
Statistics on vandalism are not maintained for Red phones but generally vandalism is not a significant problem as most are installed at the premises of, and supervised by, lessees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
National radio news bulletins: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics conducted a survey of earnings and hours in May 1977 from a sample of employers including Australia Post 
Yes. 
Only a sample of employees was surveyed. 
The survey forms were completed by employers from payroll and other records. 
The Bureau collected the information under the authority of the Census and Statistics Act 1 905. 
To enable the information reported on the forms to be verified with the employer, some form of employee identification was required. It was pointed out to employers that it was not necessary to include the name of employees if some other form of identification such as a payroll or personnel number could be used. The identification used was shown on a detachable slip on the top of each form so that it could be destroyed at the completion of the survey. The identification of the employee was not recorded on any file. 
The provisions of the Census and Statistics Act 1905 provide that the contents of the returns are confidential and are to be used for statistical purposes only. 
The survey was developed to provide details annually of the distribution and composition of earnings and hours. The Population Census is conducted only once every five years and in any case does not collect these details. 
The first survey was conducted in May 1 974. 
The May survey of earnings and hours (distribution and composition) is the only one of its type conducted by the Bureau in that employers selected are requested to supply relevant details, on separate questionnaires, for a sample of employees. 
1 1 ) See answers to parts 6 and 7. It is not considered that the survey involves an invasion of privacy. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia Post does accept travellers ' cheques in exchange for purchases and change may be given on those cheques. 
Australia Post does not accept travellers' cheques for cash as this type of transaction is considered to be a function more related to banks and outside the normal service provided at post office counters. If this facility were to be provided additional costs could be incurred in overcoming cash liquidity problems which may occur at post offices, particularly at holiday resorts. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy of the Postal Commission is to provide the best possible mad service to all users. It views with concern any action by Commission employees which disrupts or denies services to communities or particular individuals and organisations. Whenever such action is taken the Commission attempts by direct negotiation or by reference to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to resolve the problem as quickly as possible. 
I am kept closely informed by the Commission of any action which disrupts or denies services. In every case the Commission has taken some positive action to resolve the matter and has taken those actions with my support. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has decided that the Postal Commission should repay to the Commonwealth $28m in 1977-78 by way of reduction of its capital indebtedness for past borrowings. 
The Government decided in establishing the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions that accumulated postal trading losses and telecommunications profits prior to Vesting Day (1 July 1975) were to be written off and capitalised respectively. The opening balance sheets of the two Commissions reflected this decision. 
It was also decided that the accumulated deficiencies in the Commissions' provision for long service leave at 30 June 1975 and the superannuation liability up to 30 June 1975 would be written off. 
The amount concerned will be paid to Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The Government has decided that the balance of the accumulated surplus should be applied, as necessary, to hold postal rates for standard letters and registered publications. As indicated in (1) above it has also decided that the Commission should use some of its liquid assets not presently required in the business to repay $28m of its capital indebtedness to the Commonwealth for past borrowings. This will mean lower annual interest payments by the Commission to the Commonwealth. 
Lockheed Corporation Sales in Australia (Question No. 1533) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 1116. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia Post's current monthly charge for redirecting mail is $5.00 for businesses and $1.50 for private persons. If pensioners qualify for either the pensioner medical service or pensioner concession travel, they are entitled to have their mail redirected free of charge for the first month of a redirection period. 
These charges came into force on 1 September 1975. Prior to this date, the charges were as follows: 
Australia Post advises that on the expiration or discontinuance of a redirection order, articles are delivered as addressed, since private arrangements may have been made by the former occupants to have mail forwarded to their new address. If mail is returned to the post office endorsed to the effect that the addressee has left the address, action is taken where practicable to return the article to the sender. 
In instances where the postmen can recall an address to which mail has been permanently redirected, delivery may be attempted on a 'try basis. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is to overcome technical problems affecting statutory authorities established by Territory ordinances. In 1973, it became apparent that provisions for the payment of Budget appropriations may be beyond the power of a Territory ordinance. The Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Act 1973 was therefore enacted as complementary legislation to overcome this deficiency. 
Since then, it has become apparent that certain other provisions concerning loans and taxation may also be beyond the powers of an ordinance. Clause 6 of the Bill will re-enact the substantive provisions of the 1973 Act while the remaining clauses concern loans and taxation. These clauses are in terms similar to provisions in Acts constituting Commonwealth Authorities. 
Thus clause 7 will provide on the usual lines for the Minister for Finance to determine the terms and conditions of Commonwealth loans to Territory authorities, and will enable the Treasurer to give Commonwealth guarantees on other borrowings. Clause 8 of the Bill provides that certain non-commercial Territory authorities specified in Part 1 of the Schedule to the Act are exempt from Commonwealth and State taxation, unless regulations under the Act make a particular authority subject to a specified tax. Clause 9 provides that certain commercial Territory authorities specified in Part II of the Schedule are subject to taxation under the laws of the Commonwealth, but not subject to taxation under any law of a State unless the regulations make a particular authority liable to a specified State tax. 
The authorities set out in the Schedule are limited to those established since 1973, when legal doubts about the powers of an ordinance arose. Ordinances creating new Territory authorities since 1973 have been prepared on the basis that certain financial provisions were probably beyond their power and would be provided for in complementary legislation. No problems have come under notice concerning the financial arrangements for Territory authorities established earlier. 
Specific provision is made in clause 9 for the Canberra Commercial Development Authority to be liable to income tax and sales tax, in order to comply with the intention when the Authority was established in 1974 that it should be liable to all taxes and charges normally applicable to private commercial enterprises. The  Chairman  of the Authority was advised in 1974 and subsequently, that it was intended that the Authority should be so liable. 
The Authority is to be made subject to income tax retrospectively from the date of its establishment so that it may benefit by offsetting any trading losses incurred in its early years against future taxable income, in the same way as a private developer. Because of administrative difficulties that would be involved in attempting to impose sales tax on past transactions, the Authority will be subject to sales tax from the date of commencement of this Act. In view of the advance toward self-government in the Territories there will be appropriate consultation before any authority is prescribed under this Act or before any amendment to the Schedule is proposed to the Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947 I present the annual reports of the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund, the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund for the calendar year 1976, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Superannuation Act 1922, the Superannuation Act 1976 and the Superannuation Amendment Act 1976 to rectify some shortcomings that have emerged in the new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Government employees since it commenced on 1 July 1976. When introducing the superannuation legislation in 1976 I explained that the legislation was extensive and complex and had been produced under considerable pressure because of time constraints. In these circumstances the Government gave an undertaking that if any shortcomings emerged in the operation of the new scheme any necessary remedial action would be taken. This Bill honours that undertaking. At the outset, I make clear that the changes embodied in the Bill do not vary the basic benefit structure of the scheme. 
Apart from one change, relating to the taxation position of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust and the Superannuation Fund, to which I shall refer later, the amendments fall into three broad categories. The first group of amendments is to ensure that the intended benefits can be properly paid. The second group authorises the making of regulations prescribing the matters to be taken into account in determining particular benefits as well as extension of the authority to make regulations retrospectively to a date not earlier than 1 July 1976, when the new scheme commenced. The third group consists of drafting changes clarifying the intention and purpose of particular provisions in the legislation, and formal drafting simplifications. I do not propose to detail all the provisions in the Bill but I shall mention the more important ones. 
The Bill deals first with amendments to the Superannuation Act 1922. The principal amendments concern the reversionary benefits payable under that Act. The Bill corrects an anomaly in regard to the benefit entitlements of children of those contributors who died in service before 1 July 1976. For example, children of deceased contributors aged 21 to 25 undergoing full time education will now be entitled to benefits in the same circumstances as the children of pensioners who died prior to 1 July 1976. The 1976 amendments made spouses' benefits available to a wider range of persons including, under certain conditions, a de facto spouse and the spouse of a marriage after retirement. The Bill ensures that the total benefits paid in respect of a spouse or spouses and children of a contributor or pensioner who died before 1 July 1976 shall not exceed the pension that would have been payable to the member. 
The amendments to the Superannuation Act 1976 are more numerous. They include provisions to ensure that the legislation provides for payment of the intended levels of benefit. An example is an amendment that provides for the apportionment of a spouse's benefit according to relative needs where a deceased contributor is survived by more than one eligible spouse. Other provisions have the purpose of clarifying some of the provisions of the 1976 Act. For example, one such provision will enable regulations to be made prescribing that certain costs of, and incidental to, the management of the Superannuation Fund by the Investment Trust may be charged to the Superannuation Fund. Another clarifies the procedures relating to the issue of benefit classification certificates in respect of employees who, on entry, are found to have a physical or mental condition that would affect their entitlement to particular levels of benefits. 
It has been found that under the 1976 Act a person already in receipt of an early retirement or age pension who is re-employed and thereby qualifies for a second pension can obtain a higher aggregate rate of pension than if there had been no break in service. The Act is to be suitably amended to correct this situation. The Act presently does not allow a member or the spouse of a deceased member to alter an election for a particular form of benefit once it as been made. The Commissioner for Superannuation has received requests from time to time to reverse an election made to take a lump sum in lieu of the contributor-financed pension. 
The Government has agreed that, in some circumstances, it should be possible to. cancel such elections, for example where it is apparent that at the time of the election all relevant information was not available. The Bill provides that in deciding whether or not an election may be cancelled the Commissioner shall have regard to any matters that are prescribed in regulations and to such other matters as he considers relevant. Clause 27 of the Bill provides that the Investment Trust and the Superannuation Fund are not subject to taxation under a law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory to which the Commonwealth is not subject, except where prescribed by regulations. The Government will be examining whether the Superannuation Fund should continue to enjoy complete exemption from taxation, given that private sector superannuation schemes do not have this advantage and having regard to the practice of the individual States in respect of their own schemes. 
The Bill also includes provisions of an administrative nature. Examples of these are the introduction of procedures for the recovery of overpaid or falsely obtained benefits and provisions to take account of changes made by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1976. The Acting Australian Government Actuary has advised that overall the changes to the scheme proposed by the Bill will not have any significant cost implications. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments are expected to be made during December 1 97 S to those contributors who elect to take, in cash, a part or all of the supplementary contributions allocated as part of their equity in the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund on thentransfer to the new superannuation scheme on 1 July 1976. Payments due to pensioners are expected to be made in September next. 
-In recent years in Australia there have been substantial changes in the outlays in the Budget. Ten years ago, in 1967, the amount outlaid for social welfare was about 17 per cent of a Budget of about $6 billion. Today social welfare payments exceed 27 per cent of the Budget outlays. The proportion of the Budget outlays on health has increased from less than 6 per cent to nearly 1 1 per cent today. Education outlays have risen from below 3 per cent to virtually 9 per cent of the Budget outlays. So there have been enormous changes. I might add that 67 years after Federation we needed $6 billion of the taxpayers' funds for the national expenditure; we now need $26 billion. In that context it is worth remembering that in the three years of the Labor Administration the outlays more than doubled, from $10 billion to $21 billion, with all the excesses that that imposed upon the nation. The honourable member asked me whether these changes have had a disadvantageous effect on some elements of the Budget. The answer is yes. If one looks at the assistance to industries one will see that all industries, including the rural industries, are now receiving a much smaller share of outlays than they were receiving 10 years ago or even before the effects of the Labor Administration were felt. 
-It is a fact that a few months ago an increase of about $300,000 was made in the vote for the Australian Tourist Commission. That maintained the Commission 's vote roughly in accordance with the previous year in real terms. There was a continuing restraint on the Tourist Commission. The reason for that action is that one of the great industries of the world is the tourist industry. We are also very concerned, as I hope every honourable member in the Parliament is concerned, about the growing gap between what we earn in Australia from tourism and what Australians spend overseas. We want to encourage Australians to go overseas but we also have to do more to encourage people from overseas to visit Australia. Therefore, the role of the Australian Tourist Commission is terribly important. 
A lot will depend upon many policies of the Government, including policies with regard to transport. But this is an area in which promotion can help. We must bear in mind not only that the tourist industry is labour intensive and therefore has an employment potential which is of value but also that it touches every electorate in this country. It does not touch only my electorate which happens to include the Gold Coast, which of course is the premier tourist resort of this nation but, as the honourable member for EdenMonaro rightly said, the tourist industry touches every electorate. I think that we as a Parliament ought to take more interest in the overall industry and its development. 
in reply- I thank the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  for reminding the House of the benefits that will flow from the Superannuation Acts Amendment Bill. As he said, it carries out an obligation which we gave that if the superannuation scheme needed adjustment or improvement we would not hesitate to do so. The Bill now before the House reflects discussions with Public Service unions and goes a long way towards sorting out the anomalies and the problems that have emerged during the period of the scheme's operation. I assure the Opposition spokesmen on superannuation matters, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  that I will look very closely at the comments he made in his speech this afternoon. There is no desire on the part of the Government to be secretive about this matter. In fact, my desire in all matters is to be as informative as I possibly can. In this matter it would be helpful if the Opposition were informed on every aspect. If there is more information that I can give the honourable member, I will do so. 
One problem has emerged. I refer to the question of an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Under the Bill the Administrative Appeals Tribunal will be composed of a presidential member- a judge- and two nonpresidential members. It has been put to me that some appeals could be unfortunately delayed if there is a requirement that a presidential membera judge- be available on all occasions. My first reaction was that perhaps we should not have that requirement in the Bill. But if it were deleted we could be in the position in which the non-presidential members could, either directly or indirectly, be beneficiaries of the superannuation scheme. Therefore, it may not be desirable for people in that capacity to sit on a tribunal and to adjudicate on a particular matter. I inform the House that the Government is now considering that matter. If there is a view that the legislation should be amended, bearing in mind the problems that have emerged, I will inform the honourable member for Gellibrand of the Government's decision. The Bill brings about a commendable improvement. As the honourable member for Barton said, it in no way changes the basic benefits. In fact it improves what is a very desirable- indeed, a generous- scheme for the Public Service. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The Government is of course aware of the substantial amount of damage done by the cyclone. My understanding is that the honourable member will be returning to his electorate later this afternoon to represent the Prime Minister, to take a personal interest and to do all that he possibly can to assist. I understand that the Prime Minister has indicated to  Sir Charles  Court, the Premier of Western Australia, that the Government stands ready to be as helpful as possible. Of course it is not possible yet for us or for the Government of Western Australia to put a figure on the damage, but let me remind the House that, in the case of personal distress and hardship as regards food and shelter, the Government will provide assistance to individual people on a dollar for dollar basis with the Western Australian Government. We go beyond that. In the case of major disasters a base figure is set for each State. It is a very low base figure and it has not been changed since 1971. The base figure for Western Australia is $ 1.5m. 
Where a major disaster strikes and the costs are to be more than 10 per cent of that base figure the Commonwealth Government accepts responsibility in a wide range of areas, not only in the event of personal hardship but also with grants to restore government, semi-government and local government facilities with a small share having to be contributed by those authorities. In addition it provides loans to primary producers to get them producing again, rail rebates to primary producers with food and clothing being carried free of any cost at all, subsidies on road transport for stock and fodder, loans to small businesses at concessional terms- all loans are at concessional terms- and loans to churches, and community and sporting organisations. Altogether the Government takes a very generous approach when disasters affect the Australian community. I repeat to the honourable member for Forrest that we stand ready to hear from him and, through the Western Australian Government, to be of as much assistance as possible. 
-I have not seen the comments of Professor Nevile. I do not spend my time reading comments by academics about the Australian economy. It is a pastime in which far too many members of this Parliament indulge, particularly members of the Opposition side. It seems to me that they listen to far too many comments from half-baked left wing academics who have no experience at all. The one person more than anybody else who seems to delight in quoting them is the present Leader of the Opposition, but of course if honourable members look at his track record as Treasurer and at his capacity to manage any aspect of that portfolio they will not need reminding of the dismal record of the former Treasurer. 
-I am just answering the question. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this amending Bill is to permit increased assistance to Tasmania in respect of the continued operation of the Mt Lyell mine at Queenstown. Honourable members will recall that Parliament legislated last year to allow payment to Tasmania of up to half the amount paid by the Tasmanian State Government to the Mt Lyell  Mining and  Railway Company Limited. The Government provided this assistance to Tasmania pending consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's interim report on copper. In case further assistance might be warranted pending the Commission's final report, the legislation provides for assistance up to 30 June 1978. 
The Commission's interim report was considered late in 1977, and the Government announced on 8 November that it accepted the Commission's recommendation to extend the period of assistance pending consideration of the Commission's final report. The Government announced that its offer of extended assistance was based on previous arrangements between the Commonwealth and Tasmania, under which the Commonwealth had assisted Tasmania on a dollar for dollar basis. The Tasmanian Government subsequently indicated that it was unwilling to continue those arrangements. In conformity with its announced intention that the mine should continue pending consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's report, the Commonwealth Government then announced it was willing to provide all the necessary assistance, apart from an amount equal to the State 's receipts from payroll tax on the mine 's employment. This Bill accordingly seeks removal of the provision which limits Commonwealth assistance to half of the amounts paid to the company by Tasmania. 
The uncertainty of the future world copper price makes it difficult to estimate accurately the cost to the Commonwealth of the increased assistance to Tasmania. However, a recent estimate is that the total cost of Commonwealth assistance for the period from November 1977 to June 1978 would be between $3m and $4m. Following the termination on 8 November 1977 of the first Commonwealth-Tasmania agreement, and pending the introduction of this legislation, Tasmania has been paying to Mt Lyell the whole of the assistance necessary for the mine's continued operation. However, Tasmania has done this in the expectation that the bulk of this assistance will be reimbursed by the Commonwealth. This legislation authorises reimbursement on the more generous basis we now envisage, and should ensure that Tasmania continues to provide assistance to the Mt Lyell operations at Queenstown on the agreed basis. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The figures for the last part of last year and the first months of this year show a deterioration in employment which, of course, was expected and which, I hope, is understood by everybody here. No doubt the honourable member's question is based upon what I said yesterday. I invite him to read what I said yesterday when I was referring to the estimates provided in last year's Budget Papers by the previous Treasurer in which he indicated the targets for the growth of the economy and employment. I say to the honourable member for Cunningham and other members of the Opposition that they are falling into the very serious trap of looking at figures ibr a particular quarter or a particular time of the year and hoping that by repeating those figures they will somehow create a greater feeling of gloom and despondency about the economy. 
I indicate to the honourable member for Cunningham that when I talk about a Budget I refer to the growth over a year and that cannot be assessed until after the year is over. I am told that figures on unemployment will come out later today. I suggest that they will give a sign of what has been occurring as we move towards the end of the financial year, as I indicated yesterday. I say to the honourable member that he should not be too impatient. He will fall into a trap if he takes a selective set of figures based on a few months and tries to build a story over a whole financial year on them. The last matter as to whether the Government is considering capital expenditure is not a matter on which I shall comment. If the honourable member wishes to know about that he should ask the Treasurer. 
-In regard to the question of Budget outlays, I took the opportunity to indicate to the House in answer to a question the tremendous change in the pattern of what has happened in Australia over the last 10 years. I referred particularly to the acceleration of those changes in the three years from 1973 to 1975 inclusive. If one looks at what has happened over that period of 10 years, there was an extraordinary increase from 1 7 per cent to over 27 per cent in social welfare expenditure, health expenditure almost doubled, and education expenditure trebled. However, in regard to education we have to allow for the fact that there has been a transfer of responsibilities from the State to the Federal area so that, in themselves, those stark figures do not reflect completely the position with regard to education. If one looks at reimbursements to the States, which are of the order of 20 per cent or more, of course there has been a reduction in assistance to industry and capital works. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred particularly to the building industry and talked about the depressed state of the economy. The Leader of the Opposition loves to talk about the depressed state of the economy. He will take any opportunity, any set of figures, any comment by anybody, to try to continue the story of gloom and despair that he has been telling ever since he went into Opposition. I do not know why he does not cheer up a little. Let us look at the building industry. Nobody would deny the significance of the building industry to the Australian economy; nobody would deny its significance to employment, but it is about time that the Leader of the Opposition and the industry started to realise that the over-expansion of the industry in 1976 created problems for the industry. When more homes are provided than the market requires, of course there has to be a period of adjustment. We are going through a period of adjustment. 
For the benefit of the Opposition, let me reinforce that point. The Opposition is falling into the error that it fell into when in government. It is too impatient; it will not wait until the true facts are known. The underlying forces within the economy demonstrate very clearly that there are some strong points, and it will not be too long in the future before the sorts of questions that the Leader of the Opposition asks, which are designed to depress further the Australian economy, will be seen for what they are- questions of propaganda that cannot be supported by facts. 
-Does the Opposition claim that there has not been growth in employment during the course of this year? 
That statement is confirmed by the 'greens'. A whole sentence is then contained in the 'greens' that does not appear in the  Hansard  report. That sentence is: 'It is perfectly clear that that has occurred'. Those words have been scrubbed out on the 'greens ' and do not appear in the  Hansard  report. That again, I submit, changes the meaning of what the Minister was saying. Furthermore, the report goes on to say: 
Again, far too much emphasis is put on the negative aspects of the Australian economy. There has not been substantial employment growth. 
In the 'greens' that second sentence, as it was typed by  Hansard,  reads: 
There has been substantial employment growth. 
The word 'not' has been inserted in hand writting. I suggest that there have been three changes to those 'greens' which dramatically change the meaning of what was said by the Minister for Finance.  Mr Speaker,  I suggest that you should investigate this matter, if necessary by comparison with the tape recording of the proceedings, and order that the original statements by the Minister be placed in  Hansard. 
It may help honourable members if I inform them that just before the division was called I was notified that this matter was coming on. I was on the verge of issuing a Press statement from my office on this matter. That is the reason why the Government is not permitting this debate to occur. That Press statement - 
-I inform the Parliament that as soon as I return to my office I will authorise a Press statement which suitably answers the allegations that were made. I do not need to use the forms of this House. 
-by leave- I refer to the allegations made by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  against me concerning the redistribution of Federal electoral boundaries in Queensland last year. When I first heard of these allegations very late last year I contacted the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  by telephone in Perth. Subsequently on 18 January I met with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser), Senator Withers  and the honourable members for Fadden, Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in the Prime Minister's office. 
The honourable member for Fadden, after some hesitation, made a general allegation towards me but he refused to give any details or to be specific concerning his allegations. He did, however, indicate that I was the Minister he had been referring to and said that I had used influence on the Distribution Commissioners. I indicated to the Prime Minister in the presence of  Senator Withers  and the three Queensland members that I rejected the allegation completely and that it was without foundation. I said quite clearly that at no stage had I sought to influence the independent deliberations of the electoral commissioners, nor had I asked any other person so to act. 
The honourable member for Fadden refused to accept that assurance and, when it was suggested by the Prime Minister that since this was an allegation of a criminal act against a Minister and which involved Commonwealth law, that perhaps the Commonwealth Police should be asked to make enquiries. I indicated that I completely agreed with this suggestion and in fact encouraged it. After all, a very serious allegation had been made towards me. The honourable member for Fadden was not attracted to this suggestion at all and, even though requested to do so, continued to refuse to discuss the matter further in my presence. 
I then withdrew from the meeting and I understand that the honourable member for Fadden had further discussions with the Prime Minister and  Senator Withers  and subsequently discussed at length the matter with both the SolicitorGeneral and the Attorney-General. The SolicitorGeneral and the Attorney-General reported to the Government on 15 February 1978. I was informed that no further action was to be taken but did not see that report until it was tabled in Parliament last Friday. Honourable members are of course aware in that report that it is indicated, in the opinion of the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General, that the matters complained of neither required nor warranted investigation by the Government. It said suggestions of impropriety on my part are in their view unfounded. 
As far as I was concerned I thought that was the end of the matter but last Friday the honourable member for Fadden saw fit to make a personal explanation to the House. Honourable members will remember that he made further allegations concerning a lunch in Beaudesert in Queensland last year. I have been contacted by the  chairman  of that lunch who has authorised me in the plainest terms to say that he rejects utterly the interpretation that has been made upon a general informal discussion which occurred regarding speculation on the likely outcome of the Federal redistribution. 

 Mr Speaker, from the very inception of this regrettable incident I have deliberately not sought the protection of the Parliament; I have made a speech outside the Parliament to my own electorate conference on this matter; I have given a television interview and a radio interview on the same matter. I at no stage sought meetings with any people because there is no basis whatever to the allegations. 
Let me repeat in this Parliament without any reservation, without qualification, and in the most unequivocal terms that I can give the House my assurance that at no stage in any way did I seek to influence the independent deliberations of the Commissioners. I have never personally sought or made representations with a view to influencing them, nor have I sought directly or indirectly to influence others so to act. I reject utterly and completely the allegations made against me by the honourable member for Fadden. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:- 
None. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I present Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1977-78 which, together with Appropriation Bill (No.  4)  1977-78, which I shall introduce shortly, comprises the Additional Estimates for 1977-78. In these Bills, Parliament is asked to appropriate moneys to meet essential and unavoidable expenditures additional to the appropriations made under Appropriation Acts (Nos. 1 and 2) 1977-78. 
The additional appropriations total $365.452m. Of this, $283.232m is sought in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $82.220m in Appropriation Bill (No. 4). The additional appropriations sought in the Bills are offset to some extent by savings in other appropriations made by Appropriation Acts (Nos. 1 and 2). These savings which have resulted partly from the Government's determined efforts to achieve expenditure savings wherever possible, are expected to amount to $209m. A document detailing these savings under the relevant appropriation headings has been distributed to honourable members. 
Notwithstanding the additional appropriations that are now sought, current expectations are that total outlays in 1977-78 over the whole of expenditures, including those financed from special appropriations, will exceed the Budget estimate by only a relatively small margin. 
Taking account of the urgent additional and unforeseen requirements that have arisen since the Budget, this situation reflects the Government's adherence to its policy of expenditure restraint, a policy which it has firmly resolved to maintain. 
I now outline the main areas where there has been found to be an unavoidable need for the additional appropriations that are the subject of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1977-78. The most significant area relates to salaries and wages. Honourable members will recall that the Budget contained an allowance of $90m for prospective salary and wage increases for commonwealth employees but that that amount was not appropriated in individual salary votes. Parliament is now being asked to appropriate a net $77m in respect of increases in award rates since the Budget. 
Appropriations of $7m are included for the rearrangement of functions between departments and the creation of a Department of Home Affairs last December. These appropriations are offset by savings in original appropriations. Under the heading of Other Services, additional funds totalling $3. 6m are sought for migrant education services, and $6m for aged persons homes and hostels. An additional $14m is included for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development for payments under the Home Savings Grants Scheme. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations requires an additional $30. 7m to meet an increase in payments to employers and trainees under the National Employment and Training system. 
Other additional provisions include $5. 7m for the Australian National University for cost supplementation, $5.7m for the Community Health Program, $2.1m for the Community Youth Support Program, $3.7m for the Australian Broadcasting Commission and $8.6m for the Australian National Railways. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I present Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1977-78 in which appropriations totalling $82. 220m additional to those made by Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1977-78 are sought for capital works and services, payments to or for the States, and other services. As I explained when presenting Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1977-78, the proposed appropriations are needed to meet essential and unavoidable expenditures for which provision was not made in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1977-78. 1 now mention some of the major items in respect of which additional appropriations are sought in the Bill. An amount of $2. 04m is being provided for additional expenditure on capital works and services for the Cooper Basin gas field. An amount of $3m is also required to meet increased applications for loans from the Australian Capital Territory Commissioner for Housing. 
Additional requirements for payments to or for the States include $20m to meet Commonwealth commitments to the States in respect of recent natural disasters, principally drought relief, and $2m to cover increased costs of the Tasman Bridge reconstruction and associated assistance for which the Commonwealth is liable under the agreed arrangements. An amount of $28. 18m is also included for payment into the Uranium Stockpile Trust Account. This additional amount is fully offset by an increase in revenue. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
As I foreshadowed during the debate on the Bill, further consideration has been given to clause 61, in consequence of which an amendment was introduced into the Senate on 10 April 1978. The amendment removes the requirement in the Bill that a presidential member should preside over all administrative appeals tribunals hearing superannuation cases. It will be recalled that I mentioned that this requirement could lead to delays in the hearing of these appeals. The amendment provides that tribunals hearing superannuation cases shall, in the absence of a presidential member, consist of three members, at least one of whom shall be a senior nonpresidential member and at least one a contributor or pensioner. The Government is satisfied that the interests of the Commonwealth will be sufficiently protected, notwithstanding that a senior non-presidential member presiding over a tribunal hearing a superannuation case could, either directly or indirectly, be a beneficiary of the scheme. 
-I gave evidence before the Royal Commission. If the Leader of the 
Opposition and other honourable members want to read all that evidence I point out that there are about 100 pages of it in the transcript. I have nothing to add to the evidence I gave. 
-In answer to the honourable member I repeat that the evidence was sworn evidence given at a royal commission. The record of that evidence has been read out correctly. I have nothing to add to that evidence. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These Bills will give effect to the proposal announced in the Budget Speech to reduce the rate of sales tax on motor cars and station wagons from 27V4 per cent to 15 per cent. The nine amending Bills are necessary because sales tax is imposed by nine separate Acts in order to meet the constitutional requirement that an Act imposing taxation shall deal with only one subject of taxation. Vehicles affected by the reduction are listed in the Fifth Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. The ones more commonly used are sedans, station wagons and taxi cabs. In aggregate terms, this reduction in sales tax is expected to involve a revenue loss of $155m this year. It also will be significant for the individual car buyer as it should mean that the price of an average family car now costing around $7,000 will fall by some $530. The new rate is to be effective tomorrow, 16 August 1978. This accords with the normal practice under which changes in rates of sales tax take effect on the day following their introduction into Parliament. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bills in detail is being circulated for the information of honourable members. 
I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
-No one has ever suggested to me that my testimony be altered in any way whatsoever. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority needed to meet the prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1978-79. At the same time it will, together with authorities expected to be available under other legislation, provide the borrowing authority needed to finance the estimated overall Budget deficit for the financial year to be undertaken. Honourable members will be aware that, for many years there has been legislation for these purposes in the legislative programs of successive governments. In the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced that the prospective overall Budget deficit for 1978-79 is estimated to be $2,8 13m. Except in so far as funds are available from accumulated cash balances or other miscellaneous financing transactions, this deficit must be financed by net borrowings. Such net borrowings must, of course, be within proper authority from the Parliament. The overall Budget deficit takes into account all relevant transactions of the three separate funds used to record the Commonwealth's receipts and expenditures. 
These funds are the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund. The amounts which may be paid from each fund are limited to the amounts legally available to it. Underlying the overall deficit estimated for 1978-79 is an estimated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of $1,903. 5m. Details of the current estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund transactions are set out, for the information of honourable members, in table 3 of Budget Paper No. 4- Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1979. As payment from the Consolidated Revenue Fund cannot exceed moneys available in it, it is necessary either to reduce payments from the Consolidated Revenue Fund by charging to Loan Fund some expenditures normally met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, or alternatively, to supplement the receipts of the Consolidated Revenue Fund from some other source. Appropriate legislative authority is needed for such transfers. The simplest and traditional means of providing appropriate legislative authority is a Loan Bill of the type I am now presenting. 
This Bill will authorise borrowings for defence purposes in order that defence expenditure, which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, may instead be met from the Loan Fund. The Bill authorises borrowing for defence purposes, but it does not authorise any defence expenditures additional to those which have already been authorised by Parliament in Supply Act (No. 1) 1978-79 or which will subsequently be authorised in appropriation Acts for this financial year. It will simply allow reallocations between the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loan Fund of defence expenditures to be made during the remainder of the financial year, following the enactment of this legislation. In this regard I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 8 of the recently introduced Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79, which makes that Bill subject to the provisions of the proposed Loan Act. I should also mention that as borrowings under this legislation will be for the purpose of financing defence expenditure, those borrowings will not require approval from the Australian Loan Council. 
However, the Bill includes a specific limit to the amount of such borrowings that may be undertaken; this limit is directly related to the level of defence expenditure which is expected to be made from the date of enactment of the Bill to 30 June 1979. Honourable members will be well aware that at this early stage the estimate of the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit is inevitably a qualified one. The actual figure for the year will be affected by presently unforeseen developments during the year which could cause departures from current estimates of receipts and payments of the Fund. In setting a limit on borrowings for inclusion in the Bill these inherent uncertainties need to be recognised. The limit that has been included is $2,000m. This provides a relatively small margin over the estimated Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit of $ 1,903.5 m. Borrowings under this proposed legislation will be undertaken within the framework of the monetary policy objectives which were referred to in the Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1978-79, totalling $477,933,000. This amount represents the grant component of the Loan Council program for State governments in 1978-79 and is one-third of the total program of $ 1,433.8m agreed at the June 1978 Loan Council meeting. The Bill also provides for the payment of capital grants in the first six months of 1979-80 up to an amount equal to one-half of the 1978-79 amount, pending passage of legislation to authorise grants in 1979-80. Payments authorised under this Bill may be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or from the Loan Fund, and appropriate borrowing authority is included. This is consistent with past practice. These grants represent a continuation of arrangements initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government in June 1970, which provided that portion of the State governments' Loan Council programs should take the form of interest-free nonrepayable grants in lieu of what would otherwise be interest-bearing borrowings by the States. The effect of the grants is to relieve the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to pay, and the grants accordingly have a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial positions. The grants were introduced to help the 
States finance works such as schools, police buildings and the like from which debt charges are not normally recovered. The States are, however, entirely free to apply these grants as they choose and no terms or conditions are attached to them. 
Turning to the details of the Bill, clause 3 authorises the payment of grants to the States totalling $477,933,000 in 1978-79 and clause 4 authorises the Treasurer to make advance payments in the first six months of 1979-80 at the same annual rate as in the current financial year. The amounts payable to each State are set out in the Schedule to the Bill. Clause 5 of the Bill provides for payments to be made either from Consolidated Revenue Fund or Loan Fund and clause 9 provides for the necessary appropriation of these funds. The extent to which the payments will be met from Loan Fund will depend in part on the level of government borrowings during the year, and this cannot be precisely estimated at this point. Clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill authorise the Treasurer to borrow funds in the period from the commencement of the Act to the end of December 1 979, up to the total of the amounts of the grants payable in 1978-79 and in the first six months of 1979-80. This borrowing authority will be reduced by the amount of any borrowings made before the enactment of this Bill, under the authority of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1977, which may have been used to finance grants made in the first six months of 1978-79. 
I turn now to the general context in which this Bill is being introduced. The grants which are the subject of this Bill form part of the Commonwealth's total assistance to the States which comprises no less than 36.4 per cent of Commonwealth Budget outlays. In this year of great stringency, these payments and net advances to the States from the Commonwealth Budget are estimated to increase by 5.1 per cent. It could hardly be expected that payments to the States could be immune from the rigorous approach to which all other Commonwealth outlays have been subjected. This was both necessary and responsible. Nevertheless, Commonwealth general purpose payments to the States, which are the most important element of payments to the States and of which the grants proposed in this Bill form a part, in total are estimated to increase by 7.9 per cent to $6,232. 5m. On present estimates these general purpose payments to the States should thus increase in real terms in 1978-79. 
Specific purposes payments are estimated to increase by 1.7 per cent in 1978-79. In addition to these funds provided to the States there are the Loan Council borrowing programs for the States' larger semi-government and local authorities. These are estimated to increase by 8.5 per cent in 1978-79. These funds for the States' authorities are not Commonwealth Budget outlays, but they are an important source of funds for the States' policies, and, of course, their level affects the market for Commonwealth bonds and the extent of Commonwealth support needed for the State government borrowing programs, which are underwritten by the Commonwealth. 
The overall picture then is that restraint has had to be applied to Commonwealth payments to the States, as they have to other Commonwealth outlays; but these restraints have been applied in such a way as to leave the States with the maximum flexibility to allocate their resources according to their own priorities. 
I emphasise that this flexibility includes the flexibility to use general revenue funds from the Commonwealth for capital purposes and vice versa. This Bill provides one-third of the State governments' Loan Council programs by way of an interest-free grant. It is an important measure in the overall arrangements for Commonwealth assistance to the States. I commend this Bill to the house. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this amending Bill is to permit the continuation of assistance to Tasmania for a further three months up to 30 September 1 978 in respect of the continued operation of the Mount Lyell mine at Queenstown. Honourable members will recall that the principal Act provided for assistance to Tasmania for Mt Lyell for the period ending on 30 June 1978 and that the assistance was provided pending the final Industries Assistance Commission's report on copper ores and concentrates. 
The Government considered the final report in June and it decided that the Commonwealth Government would negotiate with Tasmania and the Mount Lyell company on the question of any future assistance for the Mount Lyell mine being shared by the three parties. Ministers from the Commonwealth and Tasmania met company representatives on 14 August 1978. Discussions were frank, with the company expressing its concern for effects of mine closure on the Queenstown region while at the same time acquainting Ministers with the outlook for the Mount Lyell mine in the short to medium term. The Government will be considering the proposals advanced by the company and the Tasmanian Government during those discussions and an announcement will be made as soon as the Government has reached a decision on the matter. 
The Government previously announced that pending the outcome of the negotiations it proposed to continue assistance to Tasmania for the Mount Lyell mine for a further three month period from 1 July 1978 on the terms and conditions which applied in the period to 30 June 1978. This Bill, therefore, seeks to extend the end of the period of assistance from 30 June 1978, as provided in the principal Act, to 30 September 1978. In accord with the terms of the previous Agreement, the Tasmanian Government has indicated that it will continue to remit payroll tax due by the company during the three-month period while the Commonwealth would meet the balance of the cash deficit including the cost of necessary capital and developmental expenditure. 
The level of assistance which the Commonwealth will need to provide is dependent on the price of copper and it is difficult to foreshadow future price movements. A recent estimate, however, indicates that Commonwealth assistance to the order of $lm will be required for the period. Following the termination on 30 June 1978 of the previous Commonwealth-Tasmania Agreement, and pending the enactment of this legislation, Tasmania will bear the cost of assistance necessary for the mine's continued operation. The Bill, therefore, will have the effect of enabling the Commonwealth to reimburse expenditure paid by the State in the first instance. I commend the bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which relates to the Northern Territory, has a simple purpose. Commonwealth and State government departments and authorities are entitled to exemption from sales tax on goods purchased for their official use and not for sale. The relevant exemption, however, does not extend to departments and authorities controlled by the Northern Territory Government which came into being on 1 July 1978. 
The Bill is designed to extend this exemption to goods for official use and not for sale by departments and authorities under the control of the Northern Territory Government. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill is being circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Life Insurance Act 1945 to bring the provisions applying to the Life Insurance Commissioner into line with more recent legislation relating to similar statutory offices. More specifically, the Bill will enable the terms and conditions of appointment and service of the Commissioner to be determined under the Life Insurance Act. 
The existing legislation does not contain adequate provisions to allow for determinations to be made of the remuneration and other conditions applicable to the appointment of a Commissioner. This deficiency has not presented any problems in the past as occupants of the office of Commissioner have until recently also occupied the position of Australian Government Actuary created under the Public Service Act and have been entitled to the salary and conditions applicable to that position. 
In view of the increased workloads of the positions of Life Insurance Commissioner and Australian Government Actuary, it is no longer appropriate for these two positions to be filled by the one person and when the positions became vacant last year upon the retirement of  Mr S.  W. Caffin, it was concluded that the positions should be 'split' and filled by separate persons. Earlier this year the Treasurer announced the appointment of  Mr G.  L. Melville as Life Insurance Commissioner and  Mr J.  R. Ford as Australian Government Actuary. Pending amendment of the Life Insurance Act, the present Commissioner's salary and other conditions of appointment are subject to temporary arrangements agreed to by the Public Service Board and the Remuneration Tribunal. The Bill will enable the arrangements applying to the Commissioner to be placed on a permanent basis. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following former members of parliament currently hold office as a Judge, Ambassador, High Commissioner, or Administrator of a Territory of the Commonwealth and are in receipt of a parliamentary retiring allowance: 
The Rt  Hon. Sir Garfield  Barwick, G.C.M.G, Q.C. 
The  Hon. Sir Nigel  Bowen, K.B.E., Q.C. 

 Mr J. A. England 
The  Hon. Sir David  Fairbairn, K.B.E. 
The  Hon. Sir Gordon  Freeth, K..B.E. 
The  Hon.  L. K. Murphy, Q.C. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In January 1 978 the Premier of Queensland sought the Prime Minister's agreement to widening and varying the drought relief measures which the Commonwealth had already agreed to support (in November 1977) under the natural disaster assistance arrangements. 
Department of Finance records of advances for natural disaster assistance to the States are based on financial years. These advances are made to the States on the basis of 
State estimates of expenditure on agreed relief and restoration measures. If a State is receiving assistance in a financial year for more than one disaster (as was the case for Queensland in 1977-78) it is difficult, in the absence of audited statements of expenditure, to provide accurate statements of expenditure on a disaster by disaster basis. Audited statements are not generally available until some time after the close of the financial year in which the advances have been made. 
A further complication which tends to prevent indentification of Commonwealth assistance in terms of particular disasters is the requirement that each State must meet from its own resources a pre-determined 'base' amount of expenditure on natural disasters for a financial year before Commonwealth assistance becomes payable. 
The following table shows estimated total Commonwealth payments to Queensland in respect of natural disaster assistance in 1977-78. 
-I answered a question from the Leader of the Opposition on this matter yesterday and I thought I made myself perfectly clear. If I did not, let me say today that at no time have I been put under any duress by any person on any matter pertaining to this Royal Commission. At no time have I been under any duress from any person on any matter. 

 - Mr Speaker, I answered a question from the Leader of the Opposition on this matter yesterday and I answered a question from him on this matter a few minutes ago. I have nothing further to add. 
-I do not have the transcript of my evidence in front of me now- I have it with me- but, from recollection, the sections of the transcript which the Leader of the Opposition has read out are accurate. I invite the Leader of the Opposition, and anybody else who wants to do so, to look at the totality of the evidence. There are 100 pages of evidence attributed to me and well in excess of 2,000 pages of evidence throughout the Royal Commission. Of course the Leader of the Opposition was away for a considerable part of the time. No doubt he is taking a real interest in it now. I invite him to look at the totality of the evidence. The discussion on the dates mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition did not encompass the totality of the evidence. 
The draft note which was released yesterday was the first basis of a possible letter to the Prime Minister. It was dictated to a member of his staff following his request- I might add, a request in good faith. Let us have that quite clearly on the record. 
-Does the Leader of the Opposition want to interject or to know the facts? What is his object? Does he want to know the facts? 
-I have made it perfectly clear to the Leader of the Opposition that the evidence I gave that Royal Commission was given on oath and with good faith, and I do not entertain any doubts about that evidence at all, none at all. Could I answer one section of a question of the Leader of the Opposition that I did not answer earlier- did I destroy the letter? Yes, I did, the morning after. 
I present the following paper: 
Advance to the Minister for Finance 1977-78- Statement of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901. 
Ordered that the statement be taken into consideration in Committee of the Whole House at the next sitting. 
-I would have thought that the information I gave yesterday to the Leader of the Opposition would have been sufficient to avoid his asking this question today. The fact is that the totality of the evidence given by me to that Royal Commission- evidence on oath and evidence given in good faith- has been on the public record now for more than three months for the Leader of the Opposition or anybody else who wishes to read it. Yesterday information was given to the Leader of the Opposition of the circumstances surrounding the  preparation of the first draft of a possible note to the Prime Minister on 8 August. I have nothing further to add to that. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence to correct an answer I gave this afternoon to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  In referring to evidence given to the Royal Commission I said that my evidence had been on public record for over three months. Whilst the Commission took evidence from 15 May- over three months ago- my own evidence was given very early in June. Therefore my evidence has been on public record for a period approaching three months, not over three months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 29 April 1976, as Minister Assisting the Treasurer, I introduced a Bill to amend the Audit Act 1901. That Bill received honourable members' approval and was subsequently introduced in the Senate but it was not debated there and was lost when the Parliament was prorogued early in 1977. The reason why that Bill was not proceeded with was that the Government wished to give further consideration to certain of its provisions. That has now been done and the changes decided upon are reflected in the Bill now before the House. 
The Audit Act of 1 90 1 has been amended on a number of occasions since it was first enacted. It has an important place in the statutes because it not only provides for the audit of the Government's accounts but also sets down important controls which are fundamental to the accounting for receipts and payments under the control of the parliamentary departments and the departments of State. It conferred important powers and responsibilities on the Treasurer for financial management across the entire departmental spectrum- power which, following the transfer of the administration of the Act to my portfolio, became the responsibility- with one important exception, that is, section 70b -of the Minister for Finance. Historically, the Act was drawn from the audit Acts of the States in force at the time of Federation, but its origins can be traced to the British Exchequer and Audit Departments Act of 1 866. 
Because of the important part the Audit Act plays in the regulation of accounting for receipts and expenditure of public moneys, all governments have approached the question of its amendment with appropriate caution. Substantial amendments were last made in 1969 and many of the proposals embodied in the current Bill have been under examination since then. It is, important however, that the audit legislation be responsive to growth in the volume and variety of transactions and, more particularly, to changes in accounting and auditing methodologies, while maintaining in an appropriate way proper elements of control and accountability which Parliament would expect to be applied to the management of the Government's financial affairs. In the past 10 to15 years there have been significant changes in accounting methods and procedures. Many of the accounts payment systems now in use, particularly those which process repetitive payments such as pensions, are fully automated, that is to say, the calculations are performed by computers which also prepare the accounting documents and write the cheques. My own Department makes extensive use of computers in maintaining the accounting records of the Government- use which commenced as long ago as 1964. In fact, most of the Government's millions of individual transactions are recorded, analysed and summarised in accounting records that are processed by computers. The benefits of modern computer technology have been well and truly realised in this field of government administration. 
I want to emphasise that it is not enough to have modern equipment and up-to-date systems unless the legislation under which departments must operate is sufficiently flexible to allow vast numbers of accounts to be processed quickly yet accurately without the need for unwarranted clerical effort. This Bill will amend the Audit Act in a way which will provide that flexibility without destroying the principles of control which are necessary, and have been necessary since 1901, to ensure that moneys are paid out only when it is clear that there is proper authority for the transaction and that the supply or service has been performed. 
As I said in relation to the 1976 Bill, many of the amendments are of a technical nature and I do not propose to explain or even to refer to all of them in this speech. Some have been decided upon, following legal advice, to rectify defects in the present law and thus to validate existing procedures. All of them have the full support of the Auditor-General, who has been closely associated with the preparation of the Bill. The proposals have, with certain exceptions, been explained to the eight, ninth, eleventh and twelfth Joint Committees of Public Accounts. I now mention some of the principal changes which are proposed. 
Clause 5 makes it abundantly clear that the permanent head of a department is responsible for making appropriate arrangements for implementing the provisions of the Act, the regulations and directions in relation to his department. The existing legislation makes no reference to the responsibilities of a permanent head in relation to the financial management of his department and the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration felt that some clarification was needed, although in practice this responsibility was accepted and exercised by permanent heads. Not only does the Government consider it desirable to put the matter beyond all doubt but also the amendment will be followed up by the transfer to permanent heads of responsibility for certain management decisions which have, up to now, been under the control of the Minister for Finance. 
Clause 20 amends section 32 of the principal Act in order to remedy a defect in the present wording which was raised by the previous Auditor-General. In certain Acts which contain standing appropriations, the payment of moneys is expressed to be conditional upon some event occurring or some action being carried out, and legal advice is that until that event occurs or that action is taken there is no available appropriation. The proposed changes to this section will make it clear that an appropriation is available for expenditure subject to the occurrence of the contingency or condition expressed in relation to the appropriation. This does no more than give proper legal backing to procedures which have been followed for many years, probably since Federation. This and other amendments to this section do not imply any change in procedures or any reduction in control and they do not vary the long-standing requirement for the Minister to seek a Governor-General's warrant to cover the amounts he expects to be disbursed, and the Auditor-General to certify, before the warrant is submitted to the Governor-General, that Parliament has provided an appropriation which will authorise the disbursement of those amounts. 
The steps relating to the payment of accounts set out in the present section 34 are to be amended by clause 24 to provide a framework of control within which the processes governing computer-based and other payment systems may be developed and prescribed. Such processes depend upon control points built into computer programs and officers whose duty it is to certify as to the correctness of the accounts cannot certify as to the correctness of individual calculations other than by reliance on the execution of the programs and the observance of appropriate checks and controls as designed for the system. Under the proposed amendment it is this latter aspect- that of full observance of appropriate checks and controls- that becomes the central responsibility of the certifying officer. 
Clause 25 introduces a new section 34a in place of section 34(4). The new section spells out more clearly the Minister's power to approve act of grace payments and will authorise him to delegate this power. Provision is also made for a committee of officials to advise the Minister on the merits of requests for substantial act of grace payments- those exceeding $25,000 or $5,000 per annum in the case of continuing payments. The total number of act of grace payments and the aggregate amounts thereof made by each department will be reported to Parliament as part of the statement prepared in pursuance of section 50 of the principal Act- see clause 42. 
Clause 27 inserts a new section to deal with the considerable administrative difficulties which currently arise with appropriations and appointments when the administrative arrangements are changed resulting in the abolition of departments or existing functions being transferred to another department or departments. This provision will authorise the Minister to issue moneys, already appropriated for the discharge of functions in one department, to another department for the purpose of corresponding functions which have been transferred to it by order of the Governor-General. The Minister would not, however, be authorised to issue funds beyond the limit of appropriations already made by the Parliament. 
Section 42 (2) of the principal Act contains what is known as the surcharge power. Clause 36 of the Bill will repeal that provision. Over the years that the surcharge provision has been in existence the Auditor-General's Office has experienced almost insurmountable difficulties in establishing default or neglect and the section has therefore been virtually non-operative. Moreover, it is no longer considered appropriate that the Auditor-General have the responsibility of deciding that recovery should be made in a particular case and without there being a requirement for proof of guilt or for a defence by the person at fault. Clause 57 replaces these unworkable and, indeed, unjust provisions with more equitable procedures for the recovery of the loss of public moneys or stores where the loss was caused by the gross negligence or misconduct of an officer. The proposed provisions will require a permanent head to take action to effect recovery in respect of such a loss; they include a right of appeal by the officer to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or at his option to have his liability determined by a court. The Government expects these provisions to provide a more effective and satisfactory means by which losses caused by the gross negligence or misconduct of its officers can be pursued and appropriate recompense made. 
Clause 40 will give effect to the Government's decision that the Auditor-General should be empowered to undertake efficiency audits of departments, statutory authorities and government-owned companies. Honourable members will recall that this decision followed a very strong recommendation from the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration and that it was the subject of a statement in the House on 7 November 1977 by the Honourable A. A. Street as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. The proposed definition of efficiency audits is contained in section 2 (4) and the proposed ambit of the efficiency audit powers is dealt with in the new section 48c while sections 48f and 48G set out the requirements for reporting the results of efficiency audits. Subject to exceptions outlined in the Bill, these reports will be transmitted to the Parliament. The proposed sections 48j to 48p make provision for the appointment of an independent auditor to carry out both financial and efficiency audits of the AuditorGeneral's Office. 
Clause 41 amends section 49 of the principal Act to require the Minister to publish a monthly statement of the receipts and expenditures of public moneys in a form determined by the Minister. Lest honourable members think that this would give the Minister power to publish the statement in a form which contained no useful information, I draw attention to the provision for disallowance of the Minister's determination in the same way as for regulations. When this amendment is enacted I intend making a determination which will set out the form of the statement as currently known to members. An important change to the form of the Minister's annual statement of receipts and expenditure under section 50 of the principal Act is proposed by clause 42 of the Bill. I refer, of course, to the statement which the Auditor-General is currently required to report upon and explain. 
It is proposed that, with effect from 1978-79, the annual statements of the Minister for 
Finance will comprise statements for each department grouping all departmental receipts and expenditure together with summaries of those statements and other relevant information. Each permanent head will be required to provide, for inclusion in the statements, information as to act of grace payments; waivers of amounts due to be received; amounts written off under section 70C of the Act; particulars of action taken by him under Part XIIA of the Act during the year and information relating to and explanations of the financial transactions of his Department. The Minister for Finance may include such further explanations as he deems desirable in the statements transmitted to the Auditor-General. This change will emphasise the responsibility of individual permanent heads for reporting upon the use of appropriations under their control and on other financial transactions. The Government believes that this new format will be greatly welcomed by the Parliament because it will enable information on each year's transactions to be reported more clearly and concisely without any loss of the information now published. 
As a consequence of the significant changes to be effected by clause 42 of the Bill, Clause 43 will amend section 5 1 of the Act to omit the requirement that the Auditor-General explain the statement in full. Instead, he will be authorized to add what further information and explanations of the statements that he thinks appropriate. This will have the desirable effect of allowing the AuditorGeneral to make more effective use of his professional staff resources. Clause 54 inserts a new Part XI to make provision for the audit by the Auditor-General of certain authorities established under an Act or an ordinance; the inclusion of standard accounting and audit provisions of the kind normally included in public authority legislation; the making of arrangements for the audit of other bodies, and the payment of audit fees. The standard provisions were proposed by the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel to simplify the task of drafting future public authority legislation. The purpose of Division 4 is to provide proper authority for the Auditor-General to undertake 'by arrangement' and other audits including audits of certain companies in which the Commonwealth has an interest. 
Two further amendments of particular interest to honourable members are contained in clause 58 of the Bill. The first is the repeal of existing section 70B of the principal Act under which the Treasurer may guarantee loans made by specified banks for the purposes of the Commonwealth. The Government has taken the view that such guarantees ought, in future, to be given only upon the authority of the Parliament. This is provided for in the new section 70B. The second is a provision to enable the Auditor-General to authorise an officer to sign for him reports in respect of particular bodies nominated in regulations. The Auditor-General will, of course, still have the general responsibility for the audit of the accounts of those bodies. The purpose of the amendment is to relieve the Auditor-General of some of his personal work load which has increased over the years. 
Clause 59 will authorise the Minister for Finance to waive the recovery of amounts of moneys which are legally recoverable but which, for good reason, ought not to be recovered, under similar procedures as those proposed for act of grace payments. Clause 60 inserts a new section to provide for the exemption of certain parts of the accounts of prescribed departments and organisations from inspection, examination and audit by the Auditor-General and introduces processes for reporting to Parliament in respect of expenditure from such exempt accounts. Under the Act as it stands at present there is no provision to exempt any part of the public accounts from such examination and audit but the Government is satisfied that provision should be made to allow the exemption of certain parts of the accounts of the security and intelligence organisations relating to highly confidential expenditure so that there could be no risk that the operations of the organisations might be prejudiced in any way. The Government is concerned to see that the principle of accountability for the moneys appropriated by the Parliament is preserved and believes that the procedure required to be followed will ensure that accountability. 
Honourable members will appreciate from what I have said that this Bill contains some farreaching changes which are directed towards the more efficient regulation of our public accounts and the efficient use of resources by departments and other bodies. The need for many of the changes has been forcefully drawn to our attention in the reports of the Auditor-General and of the previous Auditor-General extending back for many years. The Government has recognised that need. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) $17,952- from date Department created on 7 December 1 976; ( b ) $200, 1 6 1 ; (c) $99,575. 
133,962 hours. 
(a) 2; (b) 30; (c) 12. 
The Department's records do not show whether the maternity leave taken was in respect of first or subsequent children. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Waste paper-Recycling arrangements have been made by the Department of Administrative Services- see answer by Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 1437. 
Metals/glass, etc.- Some metal waste is produced at the Royal Australian Mint. This waste is recycled to extract usable metals. (2)See(l) above. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1 926, 1 present the audit of accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947, 1 present the annual report by the trustees of the services canteens trust fund for the year ended 3 1 December 1977, together with the report of the AuditorGeneral required under section 35 of the above Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 10 October 1978 REPRESENTATIVES 1679 
Question No. 1625 was answered by the Acting Minister for Finance on 28 September 1978 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  page 1586). 
In accordance with the undertaking given to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  by the acting Minister for Finance  (Mr Howard)  in answer to Parliamentary Question No. 1626 on 10 October 1978, I present for the information of honourable members parts III and IV of the handbook for Commonwealth medical officers which relate to the medical guidelines used in the administration of the Superannuation Act. 
-I am not aware that there is any disquiet amongst members of the Commonwealth Public Service, either pensioners or contributors. I am aware that there is a substantial amount of interest in this matter and members will be aware that we had the new scheme put in in 1976. Since then, there has been a tremendous amount of work. This matter of working out what funds are in excess of what is needed to maintain the fund is very complex. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Acting Minister for Finance to his Question on Notice No. 1625  (Hansard,  28 September 1978, page 1586). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Acting Minister for Finance to his Question on Notice No. 1626  (Hansard,  10 October 1978, page 1666) and to parts III and IV of the handbook for Commonwealth medical officers tabled by me on11 October 1 978 (  Hansard,  page 1694). 
Honourable members will recall that the Tasmania Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 was introduced on 16 August 1978 to give effect to the Government's decision of 28 June 1 978 to continue assistance for the Mount Lyell company. The Government announced at that time that the Commonwealth would continue assistance for Mount Lyell for the three months after 1 July 1978 pending the outcome of negotiations with Tasmania and the Mount Lyell company on the question of further assistance to the company. On 23 August 1978 it was announced that the Commonwealth had reached agreement with the Tasmanian Government and the company to provide assistance for the operation of the Mount Lyell mine for a further 2 1 months period ending on 30 June 1980. 
The amendment now being proposed to the Bill is to allow this further assistance to be provided. The amendment to the Bill would permit agreement to extend assistance up to 30 June 1980, and up to a limit of $3.8m, subject to Tasmania itself bearing at least half the cost of the further assistance. The Government has been prepared to share the cost of this assistance to 
Mount Lyell on a dollar for dollar basis with Tasmania because of the serious consequences which would be suffered by thelong-established but isolated Queenstown community and region should the mine close. 
The government was aware of the level of private ownership of community facilities such as housing in Queenstown, which is unusually high for mining towns. It was also conscious that the company has achieved a substantial reduction in the cost of mine production and is willing to invest in new road and mine vehicles at an estimated cost of $ 1.8m. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I have an amendment to clause 3, which states: 
Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting '30 June 1 978 'and substituting '30 September 1978'. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended by- 
omitting "30 June 1978" and substituting "30 September1978"; and 
adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: "(2) Approval is given to the execution, on behalf of the Commonwealth, of an agreement or agreements between the Commonwealth and Tasmania for the payment by the Commonwealth to Tasmania, for the purpose of assisting the continuation of the operation of The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited 's mine at Mount Lyell in Tasmania from 1 October 1978 to 30 June 1980, inclusive, of amounts not exceeding in the aggregate whichever is the lesser of- 
one-half of the sum of any payments made by Tasmania to the Company for the purpose of assisting the continuation of the operation of that mine during that period; or 
$3,800,000."'. 
Last night, when consideration was interrupted, I was speaking about the concern of the Government with regard to the private ownership of community facilities, such as housing, in Queenstown. I would refer now to the capital investment that the mine intends to make, of an estimated $ 1 . 8m over a 2 1 -month period, in new roads and mine vehicles so that the mine may be placed on a more efficient operating basis. These measures are intended to enable the mine to reach a cash break-even position by the end of the period, and so enable it to continue operations after this assistance terminates. 
The Government was also mindful of the economic and social consequences for Tasmania and the people of Queenstown should the mine be forced to close its operations at this time. Closure would involve an employment loss to Tasmania. Estimates of this loss range up to 2,000 jobs, which is between 1 per cent and 2 per cent of the total employment in the State. 
The Commonwealth assistance would be by way of an interest-free section 96 grant to the Tasmanian Government, which would be repayable from the future positive cash flow achieved by the Mount Lyell mine and applied to repayments to Tasmania. Agreements between the Commonwealth and Tasmania, and between the State and the company, will be drawn up to give full effect to the arrangements agreed upon by the three parties. These agreements will include provisions to ensure that the Commonwealth's interests are properly protected. There will be comprehensive auditing procedures and certification by the State Director of Mines of the necessity of the development work undertaken. Detailed requirements will be set out regarding the operation of the mine and the subsidy to be paid, including eligible costs, minimising the cash deficit, and substantial maintenance of the employment level. 
Under the arrangements agreed upon with the State and the company, it is estimated that the Commonwealth contribution would be about $1.6m for the additional 21-month period. However, this may vary upwards if copper prices do not recover to the extent expected. 
Accordingly, the amendment proposes that there be a limit of $3. 8m on the Commonwealth payments to Tasmania in relation to the period 1 October 1978 to 30 June 1980. This is the level of assistance required if the price of copper is 10 per cent less than that which has been forecast. The three parties have agreed that if the world copper outlook deteriorates significantly, each will have the right to seek a review of the arrangements. It is, of course, impossible to forecast future prices with any certainty. However, the likelihood of substantial deterioration from the present depressed prices is not thought to be high, and the agreements reached look rather to a degree of recovery by mid- 1980 that would allow the mine to pay its way. 
On behalf of the Government, I thank those members, from both sides of the chamber, who took part in what was an interesting debate last night. I think I should in winding up the debate, make one or two comments. The Government appreciates- I am certain Tasmanians appreciate- the very enthusiastic way in which all of the Federal members representing Tasmanian electorates spoke on this matter. The considered judgment of all of the Tasmanian members, bearing in mind their responsibility to their State, was that the Commonwealth should, within its philosophy and policy, consider granting assistance of this kind. Although other Government members have taken issue with them on the ground of overall government policy, and have demonstrated that there has to be a limit to the assistance that can be given, it was understood that this was a particular case and one in which every consideration ought to be given by the Government. We look forward to its successful conclusion. 
One or two pertinent comments were made about the role of Tasmanian members. It is perfectly clear that the interest that Tasmanian members have demonstrated in this legislation, and in this matter generally, has been reflected by the high degree of electoral support which those members have received in that State. That is understood and accepted. Indeed, in the days when we were in Opposition, there was constantly on the part of our parties a very real interest in the development of that State. We have reaped the rewards of that by now having the representation that we do in Tasmania. As a tribute to that representation, the Government was prepared, on a balanced judgment, to put forward the amendment which I moved earlier. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) All members of the Ministry have delegated to officers of their departments the power to approve expenditure. This is necessary in the interests of effective administration. The delegations relate only to the approval of expenditure within the limits of appropriations approved by the Parliament or within approved forward commitment procedures. The delegations to officers are given mainly under section 34(5) of the Audit Act 1901 (which provides that the correctness of every account in regard to rates of charge and faithful performance of the services charged shall be certified by the person incurring the expense or the person appointed for that purpose by the Minister administering the department concerned), Finance Regulation 49 (which provides that after a certificate that funds are available for the purposes of a requisition has been given the requisition shall be submitted for approval to the Minister of State administering the department in which the requisition originated or to an officer appointed by that Minister for the purpose) and Finance Regulation 48 (which provides that a requisition for supplies that are to be obtained from or through the Department of Construction shall be submitted to the Minister administering the department from which the requisition originated or to an officer appointed by that Minister for the purpose). 
Yes, within the abovementioned framework. 
Most Permanent Heads have unlimited delegation within the framework outlined in the answer to part ( 1 ). 
The pattern of delegation varies from department to department and reflects such considerations as the nature and purposes of individual appropriations and the size and individual spread of departments. Many officers have multiple delegations. In consequence, the number of individual delegations that have been made is very large and a detailed collection and tabulation would result in a voluminous document the preparation of which would require a heavy commitment of departmental resources. I do not think this would be justified but if the honourable member wishes any specific information regarding my own department I should be happy to provide it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply which the Prime Minister gave to Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  House of Representatives, 17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States (Question No. 2114) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have today answered the honourable member's Question on Notice No. 1 594. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions as follows: 
Question 1626, to which Question 2027 related, was answered on 10 October 1978. Question 1594, to which Question 1997 related, involved matters of greater complexity and is being answered today. Beyond that I have nothing to add to the answers to Questions 1997 and 2027 that were given by the then Acting Minister for Finance. 
I do not maintain such records but the information requested can be derived from the relevant Notice Papers and  Hansard. 
On behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  I move pursuant to notice: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 23 November 1978. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 26 October 1978I announced the timetable for the allocation and distribution between and among pensioners and contributors of the old Commonwealth Superannuation Fund existing as at 30 June 1976. I said that eligible pensioners would receive payments on 9 November 1978.I said also that those contributors concerned who elected for a refund of some or all of the amount of their 'supplementary' contributions could expect to receive payments on and after 15 December 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal referred to did not include a statement that it is the responsibility of every contributor to the Commonwealth superannuation scheme to make sure that his or her fortnightly superannuation payments are the correct amount, nor a statement to that effect. 
See answer to (1). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to permit the provision of assistance to New South Wales for the 15 months to the end of 1979 in respect of the continued operation of the Chrysotile Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd asbestos mine at Barraba in New South Wales. Since the Government first gave consideration to the report of the industries Assistance Commission on short-term assistance for the asbestos mining industry, and to assistance proposals made by the New South Wales Government, it has emerged in further detailed discussions that the company's bank, the Commercial Bank of Australia, is also willing to make a contribution. After further consideration in the light of this situation, the Government announced it would offer assistance by way of an interest-bearing loan of up to $ 1 .4m in relation to the company's operations. This assistance is intended to be provided by means of a repayable grant to New South Wales under section 96 of the Constitution. It would be provided progressively over the 1 5 months to the end of 1 979. 
The Commercial Bank has indicated willingness to accrue interest on loans to the company over this period while the State Government has stated it is prepared to provide certain funds to assist Chrysotile Corporation and also to waive royalties during the period concerned. On the basis of the bank accruing interest, it appears that the Commonwealth's offer to provide $ 1.4m to the State for on-lending, matched by funds of at least that amount from the State together with the waiving of royalties, would enable the company to continue in operation. 
It was in the light of the willingness of the Bank and the State to assist the company that the Commonwealth made its offer of assistance. The Government was mindful of the effect the mine's closure would have on employment opportunities in the region surrounding Barraba, as well as the degree of assistance by the State and the Bank, in reaching a decision to contribute to the total assistance package. The proposed assistance is intended to tide the company over until it resumes a positive cash flow. In particular, the proposals will facilitate the company's plans to introduce new recovery equipment during 1979, which is expected to add substantially to its revenue. 
Detailed agreements between the Commonwealth and New South Wales, and between the State, the company and the Bank, are to be drawn up to give effect to arrangements on the basis agreed between the various parties. The agreements are to include provisions to ensure that Commonwealth interests are properly protected. 
Detailed requirements will be set out to cover such matters as limits on amounts to be paid, means of minimising cash deficits, comprehensive auditing procedures, and maintenance of employment levels. There will also be provision for the amounts paid by way of assistance to be repaid with interest out of future cash flows if the prospects for recovery of the viability of the company's operations are realised. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) My Department does not keep any records of payments made to individual persons and firms by other Commonwealth Departments. The only information I am able to provide is that, so far as the Department of Finance is concerned, a search of the Department's records indicates that the answer to part ( 1 ) of the question is none and the answer to parts ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) of the question is no. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Termination Act 1976 1 present the report on the general administration and operation of the Papua New Guinea superannuation scheme and the contract officers retirement benefit scheme for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947 I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund, the Austraiian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund for the year ended 31 December 1977, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on these statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) I am advised that the Department of Finance 's central ledger record incorporates only end of month data and that the information sought with regard to amounts expended as at 10 November 1975 is not held in the Department 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) My answer to the honourable member's Question No. 2215 outlines the nature of the Department of Finance computer network. In addition to processing its own work, the Department of Finance provides a range of computerised accounting services to departments and computer facilities to the Treasury, and Auditor-General's Office, the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Insurance Commissioner. 
Amongst the services provided by the department is a computerised payroll service. As well as producing output for user organisations, the Taxation Office and the Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office, the service also produces output listing payees, entitlements or deductions for despatch to banks, credit unions, insurance companies, building societies, health funds, et cetera, as authorised by payees. 
Otherwise, information stored in the Department of Finance computer is only available to properly authorised employees within the department and user organisations. 
Information is not, and has not been, made available by the Department of Finance on any other basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The Department of Finance computer network comprises a medium-large scale central computer and a network of mini-computer configurations which edit and transmit data to the central computer. As the mini-computer configurations comprise up to three closely connected minicomputers the term computer has been interpreted, for the purpose of the Honourable Member's question, as referring to such a configuration. 
Fifteen, viz: one central computer eleven data collection systems one enquiry control processor one mini-computer program development and testing installation one mini-computer data collection and file location system located in the Australian Government Retirement Benefits Office (AGRBO). 
Fifteen. 
None. 
d ) None, although some peripheral equipment is rented. 
The cost of purchase and rental of each computer is: central mainframe computer- 
Cost of purchase, $2,847,000 
Rental (of some items of peripheral equipment) $160,000 pa eleven data collection systems (aggregate cost of purchase) $1,399,000 enquiry control processor (transferred from Public Service Board at no cost to the Department of Finance- the figure indicated is the original cost of this equipment) $53,000 development mini-computer system (cost of purchase) $192,000 
AGRBO system (cost of purchase) $92,000 
(i) The central mainframe computer is used principally for financial and management accounting, payroll and payments, processing, estimates consolidation and analysis, Superannuation and Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits scheme processing, analysis of insurance company statutory returns, investment analysis and econometric modelling. 
the data collection systems are used for the collection and editing of financial transaction data, cheque preparation, overseas local payrolls and as communications controllers; 
the enquiry control processor is used as a communications controller, 
the program development and testing installation is used for the development and testing of programs for the other mini-computer systems; 
the AGRBO mini-computer configuration is used for data entry and a file location system. 
With the exception of the data collection systems which hold edited financial transaction data temporarily and of the AGRBO system which holds file location data, the only computer in the network on which data is stored is the central mainframe computer. Data stored on this computer is principally data relating to the Commonwealth's receipts and expenditures, salary payrolls, superannuation and DFRDB contributions, econometric data, audit project management data and data drawn from insurance company statutory returns. 
All mini-computers in the network, with the exception of that located in the Accounting Office, Geneva, are linked, or are to be linked, by leased Telecom lines or in-house lines to the central mainframe computer. 
(i) Authorised Department of Finance Personnel; 
officers of the Treasury, AGRBO, Australian Bureau of Statistics, Auditor-General's Office, Office of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust, and Insurance Commissioner, have access only to their own programs and data through a time-sharing system and normal batch processing facilities; and 
employees of the computer suppliers and Telecom for maintenance purposes. 
The computer based accounting systems, the development of which commenced in 196S on equipment operated by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, achieved substantial staff savings as they were progressively implemented. The savings arose because of the increased productivity of the computer systems and also because separate departmental payroll and ledger systems were largely eliminated. Such staff savings occurred both within the Department of Finance Accounting Offices and departments serviced by the centralised systems, but it is not possible to measure their precise extent 
The Department's central mainframe computer came into operation in 1974. Although the achievement of further staff savings was not its main purpose, it is estimated that net staff savings of the order of 26 operative staff occurred over the period 1974-75 to 1977-78, principally as a result of the introduction of computer controlled data collection systems in the Department of Finance Accounting Offices. 
Aboriginal Mousing in Walgett, N.S.W.: Rental Increases  (Question No. 2696) 
by leave- I wish to thank honourable members for the very useful contributions they have made to the debate on this Bill and in particular for their expressions of support for the Bill as a whole. I think all speakers have recognised the importance of this legislation. This was reflected particularly in the deliberations of the House legislation committee. The standard of debate in that committee was high and reflected a deep and serious interest in the importance of parliamentary scrutiny of public spending. I would like to record my appreciation to members from both sides of the House for the constructive and bipartisan way in which the debate has been handled. 
Honourable members will recall that on 14 November 1978 the Bill was referred to a House legislation committee for review and report. The committee met on 15 and 17 November 1978 and detailed discussion took place on a number of the clauses in the Bill. In the event, the committee passed 16 amendments. I think it important to note, however, that in passing these amendments the committee indicated that it was not necessarily wedded to the precise words of the amendments and indeed it was understood that I would put their proposals to further study or bring forward further amendments. 
In the summer recess I and officers of the Department have given close consideration to the amendments proposed by the committee and, where difficulties have arisen, further detailed discussions have taken place with the sponsors of those amendments in an effort to reach full agreement. I am pleased to say that it appears that a mutually satisfactory position has been reached on all but one amendment. 
Of the 16 amendments made by the legislation committee, I am able to accept nine, those numbered 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 1 1 and 16. The remaining seven amendments cause some difficulty, and following discussions with the movers of those motions, it has been agreed that I should either move that they be disagreed to, or in some cases that they be omitted and replaced by a substitute amendment which is in accordance with the spirit of the original amendment. 
I intend to move that committee amendments numbered 4 and 8 be disagreed to and replaced with my own amendments, which have been circulated and are numbered 5 and 6 respectively. I also intend to move that committee amendments numbered 2, 12, 13, 14 and 15 be disagreed to. This action has the agreement of the members who sponsored those amendments in the legislation committee. In the case of numbers 2 and 12 it is now acknowledged that the Joint Committee of Public Accounts is not precluded, as things stand, from obtaining from departments the names of persons to whom act of grace payments were made or in respect of whom the payment of moneys to the Commonwealth was waived. In relation to numbers 13, 14 and 15, 1 intend to move an amendment, which I foreshadowed iri the legislation committee which expands on the meaning of gross negligence for the purposes of the legislation. 
The only committee amendment on which out-of-session discussions did not reach agreement is committee amendment No. 8 which was sponsored by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  That amendment comprehends that where an efficiency audit report reflects adversely on a person the person should be given an opportunity to respond to that criticism and to have his response noted in the report. I have given this amendment sympathetic consideration. But, however desirable it might be, it would not be practicable to follow the processes envisaged. At the outset I mention that it is not the Auditor-General's practice to comment adversely on individuals. But even if there was an implied criticism the proposed process would require reference of reports to a wide range of individuals and to take into account their comments. My proposed amendment No. 6 would, however, give an organisation that is subject to adverse comment an opportunity to have its views taken into account. This is a more manageable process, consistent with the Government's intention and consistent with the spirit of the committee 's amendment. 
I have also circulated some new amendments. These are minor drafting changes or consequential to amendments passed by the committee and accepted by the Governent. I move: 
That amendment No. 2 made by the legislation committee be disagreed to. 
It has been ascertained that, clearly, the Joint Committee of Public Accounts does have that right. Firstly, it has the right to examine the ministerial statement which, of course, gives the number of instances and total amounts involved. The Committee, under its own Act, can obtain names and details of persons from relevant departments. So the Committee has available to it the power to obtain all the information that it wishes- both under the Audit Act in regard to the ministerial financial statement, and under its own Act as to specific, individual details of amounts and names. 
This provision refers to the ability of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts to obtain information, should it wish to do so, when act of grace payments or waivers have been involved. Originally, members of the Committee were concerned that that information would not be available to them. It has since been clearly established that the information would be available. The Committee has the power to examine the Minister's financial statement. It can obtain, from not just the Auditor-General but from any other department, information spelling out individual cases and names. The question of disclosure is a matter for the Public Accounts 
Committee, which may of course choose to hold its meeting in camera. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Before the Minister proceeds, I alert honourable members to the fact that the procedures that apply to debate here are identical to those which apply in the Committee of the Whole. Each honourable member may speak twice on the question before the House. I call the Minister. 
It is competent for the Public Accounts Committee to refer back to the Auditor-General or to any other department of state. It is of course within the bounds of the rights and responsibilities of the AuditorGeneral as to what action he may take following requests or views expressed by the Committee. 
I give the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  my assurance that the advice coming to me is that there is absolutely no doubt whatsoever that under the Act the Public Accounts Committee can obtain from relevant departments and authorities, details of the number of instances involved, the names of people involved and the amounts involved as distinct from the collective amount and the collective number given in the Minister's financial statement. As regards the question whether the Public Accounts Committee decides to meet in camera, this would be a matter for that Committee. I think that takes up the point raised by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I give the same assurance to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  with regard to the information and the capacity of the Public Accounts Committee. 
I listened carefully to the comments that the honourable member for Grayndler had to make with regard to having the greatest degree of efficiency and co-operation when dealing with complex, detailed and technical legislation of this type. I will take into account the honourable member's comments with regard to the need for a greater degree of co-operation. Since,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am certain that the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler were addressed more importantly to you than to me, I am certain you will also take into account the very useful comments made by the honourable member. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Mr ERIC ROBINSON (McPherson- 
Minister for Finance) (5.12)- I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 40, page 23, lines 6-7, omit', subject to any regulations in force for the purposes of sub-section ( 2 ) '. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make sure that the House does understand that this amendment, that is, amendment No. 3 made by the legislation committee, will remove the power to exempt by regulation a Commonwealth organisation from efficiency audits. The Government is prepared to accept that amendment and the amendment that I have just moved is consequential to that amendment. In other words it is designed to get rid of any capacity to avoid, by regulation, the scrutiny of the Parliament. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 40, page 24, lines 28-30, omit 'unless it is declared by the regulations not to be a public authority of the Commonwealth for the purposes of this Division '. 
Amendment No. 3 of the legislation committee removed the power to exempt, by regulation, Commonwealth organisations from efficiency audits. The committee did not discuss proposed section 48B which would enable the exemption by regulation of Commonwealth public authorities from efficiency audit. To be consistent with the committee's amendment to section 48A(2) the power to exempt public authorities from the efficiency auditing provisions should also be removed, and that will be achieved if this amendment is agreed to. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 40, page 24, lines 46-47, omit 'unless that office or appointment is declared by the regulations to be an office or appointment to which this sub-section does not apply'. 
This conforms with the previous amendments which removed the power to exempt by regulations Commonwealth organisations and public authorities from efficiency audits. This amendment, if agreed to, would remove the power to exempt, by regulation, persons holding or performing the duties of certain offices from efficiency audits. This is just a tidying up process of the previous amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
That legislation committee's amendment No. 4 be disagreed to and the following amendment substituted: 
Clause 40, page 26, lines 1 - 16, omit sub-sections (2) and (3) of proposed section 48c, substitute the following sub-sections: " '(2) A Minister may by writing under his hand, or the Parliament may by resolution of both Houses of the Parliament, request the Auditor-General to carry out efficiency audits of all the operations, or of specified operations, of an eligible incorporated company, and, where the Minister or the Parliament does so, the Auditor-General- 
may make arrangements with the company for the carrying out by him of efficiency audits of all the operations of the company, or of the operations of the company so specified, as the case requires; and 
may, in accordance with arrangements so made, carry out, at such intervals as he thinks fit, an efficiency audit of all or any of the operations of the company to which the arrangement relates. 
An arrangement made by the Auditor-General with an eligible incorporated company- 
may include provision for the payment of fees by the company to the Commonwealth in respect of the carrying out of efficiency audits of operations of the company to which the arrangement relates; and 
may be varied or revoked by the Auditor-General or the company- 
in the case of an arrangement made at the request of a Minister- with the approval of a Minister; or 
in the case of an arrangement made at the request of the Parliament- with the approval of the Parliament given by resolution of both Houses of the Parliament.". 
The purpose of the legislation committee's amendment No. 4 was to allow the Parliament in addition to the Minister, to request the AuditorGeneral to carry out an efficiency audit of an eligible incorporated company. The Government accepts the spirit of that amendment. In considering the wording of the committee's amendment the question arose whether as worded one of the Houses of Parliament could request the Auditor-General to undertake the efficiency audit. Given that the Auditor-General has a fundamental responsibility to the Parliament as a whole I take the view that a resolution from both 
Houses of Parliament should be a pre-requisite to any request so made. 
The proposed expansion of sub-clause 48C (2) by the inclusion of Houses of Parliament requires a consequential amendment to sub-clause 48C (3) to allow the Houses of Parliament to vary or revoke an arrangement made by the Auditor-General with an incorporated company. In effecting these amendments, the opportunity has been taken to redraft the two sub-sections in question to present them in a more logical sequence. 
I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 40, page 29, line 7, after sub-section (2) of proposed section 48f insert the following sub-sections: " '(2a) Where the Auditor-General prepares a report that he proposes to make with respect to the results of an efficiency audit of operations of a relevant body carried out by him under this Act, the Auditor-General shall, before signing the proposed report, furnish a copy of the proposed report to the body in order that the body may furnish to the Auditor-General any comments on the proposed report that it desires to make. (2b) Where a copy of a proposed report of the results of an efficiency audit of operations of a relevant body has been furnished to the body under sub-section (2a) and- 
the Auditor-General has received comments from the body on the proposed report and has considered those comments; or 
a period of not less than 28 days has elapsed from the date on which the copy of the proposed report was furnished to the body and the Auditor-General has not received any comments from the body, the proposed report, or that report amended in such manner as the Auditor-General thinks fit having regard to any comments furnished to him by the body, may be signed by the Auditor-General as his report of the results of that efficiency audit.". 
This motion needs to be considered in relation to committee amendment No. 8, which proposed that where an efficiency audit report reflects adversely on a person that person should have the opportunity to respond to that criticism and have his response included in the report. This amendment was described in the legislation committee as a natural justice provision, and I am in sympathy with the thought that lay behind it. The fact is, however, that it is not the practice of the Auditor-General to criticise individuals. Rather, any criticism is rightly directed at the department or authority subject to audit. 
As the legislation committee's amendment stands, a report containing adverse criticism of a department or relevant body could reflect implied criticism of a large number of individuals. It would be difficult to ensure that all who felt that they were under some implied criticism had the opportunity of commenting. Further, if all were given the right to comment on a draft audit report and to have their comments included in the final report, there would be significant administrative problems and serious delays. Not only would reports be delayed; they would become extremely lengthy. My amendment would, however, give the department or organisation, that is the relevant body, the right to comment on a proposed report provided that is done within a reasonable time, and its comments taken into account by the Auditor-General in finalising his report. That is the process considered by the Government to be the most appropriate way of meeting the problem. In my view it would overcome the administrative difficulties referred to earlier and yet be consistent with the spirit of the legislation committee's amendment. 
I listened carefully to the comments made by the two honourable members opposite. As I indicated earlier, one would naturally want to ensure that people were treated in a just manner; but, of course, the Auditor-General does not comment upon individuals. I accept that in comment upon a body or an organisation or department of state there could be implied criticism and that could involve a very large number of people. Therefore, one has to have an administrative organisation which can work, and work effectively. Whilst embracing the attitude adopted by the two honourable members, namely, that we want to give everybody the opportunity to be treated with complete fairness and complete justice, it just would not be administratively possible to allow what could be a tremendous number of people, who may believe, and may believe wrongly, that the implied criticism was directed at them, to make individual representations. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  referred particularly to an officer having the opportunity to have his point of view put, rather than having just the head of the department handling any comment. 
-I am hardly in a position to give a personal undertaking from the head of every government department, but it would be the view of the Government that a departmental head or the head of any authority should act in such a manner. I believe that the head of any organisation would want to give any officer as much opportunity as possible to make any comment in answer to any criticism or implied criticism, of that particular officer. I take on board the comment of the peak unions and their concern about this matter. I think we have to see how the system works. I give my assurance that I will do all I can to see that it works effectively and with complete and utter fairness. 
Amendment agreed to 
I move: 
That amendment No. 8 made by the legislation committee be disagreed to. 
I have already explained why we cannot support the amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: Clause 34, page 44, lines 33-39, omit 'whether, in his opinion, the statements are in agreement with the accounts and records and', substitute 'whether the statements are in agreement with the accounts and records and, in his opinion, '. 
The Auditor-General has drawn attention to the fact that the existing wording of clause 63H (2) of the Bill does not permit the necessary distinction to be drawn between statements of fact and expressions of opinion in reports by the AuditorGeneral to the appropriate Minister. Whether financial statements are in agreement with related accounts and records is a matter of fact and consequently the words 'in his opinion' should be repositioned. The amendment is designed to achieve that. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 54, page 46, line 2 1 , omit ' , in his opinion, '. 
This amendment is consequential upon the previous amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 54, as amended, agreed to. 
I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
In clause 57, after sub-section (2) of proposed section 70aa insert the following sub-section: 
For the purposes of this Part, an officer shall be taken to have performed duties in a grossly negligent manner if he has displayed, in the performance of those duties, a deliberate or serious disregard of reasonable standards of care.'. 
This matter was discussed by the legislation committee. These were some differing views. Members of the House legislation committee expressed concern that the words 'gross negligence' were not capable of being given legal precision under existing statutes and for that reason the committee made amendments 13, 14, and 15 which are yet to be dealt with. This matter was discussed at some length in the committee and I do not propose to go over the ground again. In an endeavour to clarify the Government's intention I foreshadowed this amendment in a meeting of the legislation committee. I pointed out that it was not intended that every minor act of negligence or carelessness should be dealt with in the manner set out in these provisions but those of a more serious nature. To accept the committee's amendment would be to impose administrative problems of a significant kind which could inhibit the smooth running of the service. There are other ways of dealing with minor acts of negligence or carelessness. In my view this amendment will enable Part XIIA of the Act to be administered in a fair and responsible manner. 
I shall not repeat the arguments that were offered on behalf of the Government before the sitting was suspended for dinner. I want simply to express my regret that we did not have an opportunity for further discussion of this matter. I agree with the comment made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  earlier that we may be able to improve the process of legislation committee consideration if, after that consideration there can be discussion of matters by committee members and officials, a further meeting of minds to streamline decisions and reduce the time spent by the Parliament when the matter comes before it once again. 
The Government has considered this matter on a number of occasions, and earlier I gave our arguments concerning it. I have listened carefully to what my friend the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has said. I know that he has strong views on this matter. He has put them to me on more than one occasion today and he has certainly put them to the legislation committee. 
I assure the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  that there is no intention on the part of the Government or of anyone in the Public Service to permit any diminution of public service standards. We all know that negligence occurs everywhere. It occurs in private enterprise and there are ways of handling it there, through formal and informal reprimands and formal and informal rebukes. Such action is, of course, taken also in the Commonwealth Public Service. The Government believes that this is the best way to approach the matter. We will have to see how it works out but we ought in future to be able to avoid the difficulties which occur only because there has been a lack of communication between people on a matter on which views are firmly held. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
That amendment No. 13 made by the legislation committee be disagreed to. 
This impinges on the very matter that we have been discussing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That amendment No. 14 made by the legislation committee be disagreed to. 
This concerns the same matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That amendment No. IS made by the legislation committee be disagreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause 57, as further amended, agreed to. 
I move: 
That the Bill as reported, and as further amended, be agreed to. 
I give the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  my assurance that the efficiency audit reports will be transmitted to Parliament as expeditiously as possible. The matter has been discussed. The Auditor-General will be very happy to cooperate to make certain that the Houses of Parliament are advised of reports and get copies of reports as quickly and as expeditiously as is possible. 
Bill, as reported and as further amended, agreed to. 

 - Mr Speaker, the facts relating to my resignation and the acceptance of the invitation of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to rejoin the Ministry are on record. On Thursday last, I handed the Prime Minister a letter in which I informed him of my decision to resign from the Cabinet. I reached this decision after experiencing a series of difficulties in a number of areas. These included administrative and organisational matters concerning the Government and the Liberal Party. These matters are now past. There had been, at times, some terseness in my relationships with the Prime Minister. The effect was a cumulative one. Government policy was not involved. 
On Sunday last, I had extensive discussions with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Leader  of the Liberal Party, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  It became clear that there were no significant differences which could not be resolved. 
-As a result, the Prime Minister proposed that I might consider rejoining the Ministry as the Minister for Finance. After further discussion, it was agreed that my reappointment to the Ministry as Minister for Finance would be far the best course for the well being of the Liberal Party and the Government of Australia. 
Inherent in my decision to accept the Prime Minister's invitation to rejoin the Ministry was the inevitable criticism by some, satisfaction by others. If the type of discussion which took place on Sunday with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Leader of the party had taken place earlier, I would not have resigned. With hindsight, it was unfortunate that that discussion did not take place. The essence of these candid and very explicit discussions was that we were able to have a full exchange of views and able to understand each other's views. I make it perfectly clear- no deals were involved; there are no changed arrangements; no policy implications. 

 Mr Speaker, I am deeply conscious of my responsibilities to the Liberal Party, to the Government and to the Prime Minister. After our discussions, let me affirm my full support for the Prime Minister. I have been a member of the Liberal Party for 22 years and a parliamentary representative for a little over six. I have served on the Queensland State Executive continuously for a period of 14 years, five of these as State  President.  I am convinced the future of Australia is deeply interwoven with the principles of the Liberal Party. I make these comments in relation to my party without in any way detracting from the enormous success and co-operation of the coalition parties in the Federal Government. 
My rejoining the Ministry dashed the hopes of the critics of both the Government and the Prime Minister. Their howls of indignation were merely a reflection of the chagrin that they felt at the removal of what they hopefully saw as a tool with which to beat the Prime Minister and the Government. But it is nothing more than a dressing up of their disappointment. They will not have the opportunity to attempt to foster division within the Government. To put it plainly, there must be considerable disappointment amongst those who looked upon my resignation as a tool to use to damage the Government. 
The Opposition's disappointment must be so much the greater because it lacks the cohesiveness and the ability to develop solutions to the tasks facing the nation. The events of the past few days demonstrate plainly that where there is a difficulty in the Liberal Party and the Government, there exist a will and a basic unity of purpose which allow us to resolve it quickly and effectively. That has been done. I support in the clearest terms the policies of the Governmentpolicies which I helped frame and which are essential to Australia's economic recovery. 
-If the honourable member reads into my statement that I have not a recognition of my responsibility to the Parliament he is very misguided. I discharged that responsibility to the Parliament yesterday. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1794 asked of the Minister for Productivity  (Hansard,  23 and 24 November 1978, page 3389). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2903  (Hansard  of 24 November 1978, page 3577). 
(a) None; (b)None; (c)None. 
None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I refer the honourable member to the answers provided by the Prime Minister to Questions Nos 2638  (Ilansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156), 3082  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 131) and 3065  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 130). 
-I will make inquiries as to the matter raised in the honourable member's question and advise him. 
First of all I wish to say that I have nothing but disgust as, I am certain, has the Australian community, for those who make any comments with regard to the Prime Minister and his personal affairs, so I do not respond to those comments in any way. With regard to the whole question of tax avoidance, that matter is continuously under review and remains so as the Treasurer has indicated on a number of occasions. 
-I, like a number of other members, was concerned about the rumours that were circulated about the St George Building Society Ltd. The rumours did cause a lot of people a tremendous amount of unnecessary distress. They caused officials and Ministers a lot of unnecessary work. People ought to know that the Government in its last policy speech committed itself to preparing a scheme which would give insurance to depositors in building societies. A working party was set up, comprising officials from the Treasury, the Reserve Bank and financial institutions. That working party had substantial consultation with the States. It has reported to the Government on a number of options which are available to the Government. Further consultation with the States will occur. I have asked the Treasury to facilitate these further discussions so that we can implement the scheme as soon as possible. 
This is once again a question from the Leader of the Opposition which is designed to cause concern and lack of confidence in the Australian community. The Government has recognised and indeed the Treasurer has recognised that management of the money supply is something to which the Government should give close attention and they have indicated that the parameters which were set in the Budget Speech were not to be regarded as inflexible. The Government is committed to seeing that the money supply is so conducted that it continues to maintain downward pressure upon the rate of inflation. It will attend to that. I have no comment at all to make upon the question of speculation about a March cash loan. I simply indicate to the Leader of the Opposition that the Government's fiscal and monetary policy is working for the benefit of the country and will continue to do so. 
The honourable member invites information from me that obviously is not available to me immediately. I will treat the question as being on notice and provide - 
The honourable member wants to know the facts in a detailed way. I will give them to him in a proper manner. 
-I knew when the Labor Government was in office that there had been a suggestion that a capital gains tax should be introduced. I must admit that I do not remember the details of the matter, but I am aware that the then Treasurer recommended it and that the then Prime Minister avoided it and regarded it as unacceptable to the Labor Government only five weeks later. I do not question the details which the right honourable member for Lowe has given to me. I was not personally aware of them. I have read the article written by  Mr McGuinness  on capital gains tax. If it will help the Leader of the Opposition, the normal courtesy can be provided to him and the Treasury officials will be made available to him if he wishes to be briefed on the matter. I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition needs that briefing because he must surely know that a capital gains tax would simply strike at the initiative and the enterprise that has built this country. Whilst the Leader of the Opposition may be inconsistent in his deliberations upon the economy, he is at least consistent in regard to his role as a tax gatherer, because in the three years of the Labor Government's administration taxes increased by about 100 per cent, and we now have a proposal for capital gains tax and a resource tax. All Labor Opposition members want to do is to get back into government again and to prove once again that they are great and outstanding tax gatherers. They will not be given that opportunity. 
The Leader of the Opposition well knows that the content of those sections in the Income Tax Assessment Act is quite different from the overall policy which he espoused with regard to a capital gains tax and which will affect such a great percentage of the Australian community. I remind the Leader of the Opposition - 

 Honourable members interjecting- 

The honourable member for Robertson ought to take a great deal of comfort in seeing that consumer confidence is starting to emerge right throughout the country again. With his background he ought to have enough understanding and knowledge of the retail industry and of developments and trends in the retail industry over the past few years. Quite clearly, the figures now are demonstrating that there is improved confidence within the Australian community. It is all very well- that is what the Opposition tends to do- to home in on a particular month and then to say: 'Oh, look, is that not a dreadful month? Things are not going too well'. You should talk a little more to the business community instead of staying down here thinking up you funny little tax plans and what you are going to do. You should get out and talk to the Australian community. 

 - Mr Speaker, through you I suggest to members of the Opposition that they start moving around the business community and they will reflect the growing feeling of confidence as a lot of other sections of the community are doing. 
-Can I first of all put an end to any speculation that the Government is going to have a March cash loan? It is not going to have such a loan. As to the second part of the question in relation to gold producers- I recognise the significance of that to the honourable member and to his electorate- let me assure the House that there are no proposals before the Government which will alter in any way the tax treatment of gold producers. 
-I thank the honourable member for the question because it will enable me not to take up the time of the House with a personal explanation. The report in the newspaper of what I was supposed to have said was utterly inaccurate. I did not say what is reported. I did say that there were now in the work force many more women than there had been some years ago and that the structure of the work force had changed completely. I went on to say that some jobs which normally would have been available to males were now occupied by women in the work force. I further said that women have a right to work, for whatever reason. If they choose to work they have a right to do so. To suggest that I blamed women in the work force for the loss of job opportunities for males is utterly inaccurate. I did not say that and to suggest that I did is an utter misrepresentation of my remark. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under the terms of an Agreement dated 1 November 1977 the Commonwealth and Tasmania undertook to share on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis the cost of Mt Lyell 's cash shortfall in respect of the period 15 August 1977 to 8 November 1977. On 30 June 1978 this Agreement was amended to extend assistance to Mt Lyell in respect of the period 9 November 1 977 to 30 June 1978 with Tasmania remitting payroll tax payable by the Company in that period and the Commonwealth meeting the balance of Mt Lyell 's cash shortfall. This amendment also provided for assistance on account of certain capital equipment expenditures necessary for the Company's operations. A further amendment is being finalised to provide assistance on a similar basis in respect of the period 1 July 1 978 to 30 September 1978. 
A separate document is being developed to include arrangements between the Commonwealth and the State for the twenty-one month period, 1 October 1978 to 30 June 1980. The arrangements in relation to this period are for the Commonwealth and Tasmania to meet Mt Lyell 's cash shortfall on a $1 for $1 basis and for Mt Lyell to contribute funds to meet the cost of certain new road and mine vehicles. To date the State has not made any payments to Mt Lyell in respect of this period and, unless the current improved copper price situation is reversed, it is expected that payments will not need to be made to Mount Lyell. 
In view of the repayment provisions in the Commonwealth/State Agreement and in view of the current conditions in the copper industry, the Commonwealth is pursuing with the State the question of the repayment of Commonwealth advances provided to Tasmania on account of the Mount Lyell operations from 15 August 1977 to 30 June 1978. 
I expect shortly to be able to table copies of the agreements which the Commonwealth and Tasmanian Governments have executed on the provision of assistance to Tasmania for Mount Lyell. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The detailed arrangements for the Commonwealth to provide a repayable grant under Section 96 of the Constitution to the State of New South Wales in respect of assistance to the Chrysotile Corporation of Australia have yet to be concluded in a formal agreement between the Commonwealth and New South Wales. The agreement will give effect to the Commonwealth's decision to offer assistance of up to $1.4m to New South Wales in the form of a repayable loan on account of the operations of the Chrysotile Corporation from 1 October 1978 to 31 December 1979. It will include provisions concerning the New South Wales Government's offer to contribute similar assistance and the Commercial Bank of Australia's undertaking to accrue, for this period of assistance, interest on loans made to the Chrysotile Corporation prior to 1 October 1978. 
Drafting of an agreement is proceeding and, when this process is completed, I will approach the New South Wales Government concerning the possibility of tabling the document. 
Public Servants on Long-Term Sick Leave  (Question No. 3044) 
-It is true that the Young Liberal Movement through its vicepresident approached me to see whether I could organise a cost benefit analysis of extending daylight saving. I have done all I can to achieve that through my Department. Indeed, maybe a number of departments of State could take an interest in this matter. I congratulate the Young Liberal Movement on that initiative. I see that it has been taken up by  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales. He is not slow to take up somebody else's idea if he thinks it is a good one. As a Queenslander I am looking forward to a cost benefit analysis. I even have enough optimism to believe that my friends and allies in the Queensland Cabinet will change their view, if the analysis can prove the benefit of daylight saving. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is no, it is not a fact that the accounts of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation have not been audited. I understand that the arrangement agreed upon in 1949 by Prime Minister Chifley, in consultation with his Treasurer and other Ministers, was that expenditure, other than expenditure for sensitive areas, would be subject to audit by the Auditor-General and that for the balance of money spent in very sensitive areas to do with the national interest, a certificate from the DirectorGeneral to the Auditor-General would be relied upon. I understand that that practice is followed in other countries as well. We have just amended the Audit Act to provide a right to prescribe organisations and for them to be exempted. Of course, it will be up to the Parliament to approve regulations for that purpose. But all that the amendments to the Audit Act will do will be to formalise what has been a practice in Australia for 30 years now, under governments of both political persuasions. 
For the information of honourable members I present copies of agreements dated 1 November 1977 and 30 June 1978 between the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Tasmania relating to financial assistance to subsidise Mount Lyell mining operations. 
I put aside the attack by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser);  it does him no credit. Let us look at the facts as to the Advance to the Minister for Finance. It is appropriated by the Parliament to enable a Minister for Finance to make advances that will be recovered during the financial year in respect of expenditure, that is expenditure for the ordinary annual services of the Government, and to make moneys available for expenditure, being expenditure for the ordinary annual services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to the Parliament or pending the issue of a warrant of the Governor-General specifically applicable to that expenditure. 
The basic need for the advance appropriations is to provide some flexibility in the Commonwealth budgetary system by means of a contingency fund. A government could either, on the one hand, not function efficiently if it had to approach Parliament every time it needed to supplement the funds appropriated for any service or purpose or, on the other hand, resort to the device of building into individual appropriations padding' so as to have an insurance against the need for additional funds in at least some of them. A centrally controlled contingency fund is a more efficient and realistic resolution of the problem. As I understand it, the various States in Australia have provisions for contingency expenditures of the kind met from such advances. It is clear that the need for Executive government to have access to contingency fund arrangements is accepted by the various parliaments. Some of these provisions are relatively larger than others and, indeed, much larger relatively than the advances to the Commonwealth Minister for Finance. 
It is of course essentially a matter of judgment what amounts should be sought in the Supply and the Appropriation Bills for the Advance appropriations. The Minister normally decides what amounts should be sought although, on occasions, the decision is taken in consultation with the Prime Minister or as a consequence of consideration by Cabinet. Since, by their nature, the advances are contingency funds no precise estimate of requirements can be made. But regard is had to such factors as the extent of the issues made in the previous year, the likely parliamentary timetable and the Government's general expenditure policies. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  figures showing the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the years 1969-70 to 1978-79. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197903286_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Neither the Advance appropriations themselves nor the Audit Act require that calls should be made only on advances in urgent or special circumstances. Parliament has therefore left the use of advances to the good judgment of the Minister. Because the advances are, in essence, a contingency fund for unforeseen expenditure and limited as to amount, steps are taken to guard against departments regarding them as a conveniently available source of finance, which lessens the need for the best possible estimating. Thus, departments have been advised that funds will be issued from advances only in urgent or special circumstances. With regard to the accountability to Parliament, it is axiomatic, and the Parliament I submit did not intend otherwise, that issues made by the Minister for Finance from the Advance appropriations are for purposes not specifically authorised by the Parliament. The Parliament provides a contingency fund for the Minister to draw upon within certain broad rules and requires him to report back particulars of the issues he has made ibr expenditure. 
The reporting of particulars of amounts made available from the advances for expenditure, other than expenditure on advances that are recovered in the financial year, is achieved by the inclusion of those amounts in an appropriation or an additional Appropriation Bill or where issues have taken place after the close-off date for an additional Appropriation Bill in the statement tabled by the Minister in the Parliament. When the Minister's statement is tabled, the Parliament refers it to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts for examination. As the Committee has pointed out in its reports, in its examination the Committee seeks to ascertain whether or not the expenditure from the advances has been confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Bills or the additional Appropriation Bills. 
How does this purchase meet the rule governing the use of the advances that the need to make a payment shall be urgent and unforeseen? The wording of the Advance appropriations, which has remained unaltered for years without question in Parliament, does not include any such requirement. Parliament has therefore made no such requirement of the Government. However, as a matter of practice, the advances are controlled in this way. The payments for these aircraft were made because they were urgent. For valid commercial reasons Qantas Airways Ltd required settlement by 30 March 1979. The payments were unforeseen at the time of the preparation of the Budget. 
Some honourable members may ask why the Government could not have so arranged the contract with Qantas so that no payments needed to be made until Parliament had considered and passed the Additional Estimates Bills. The Additional Estimates Bills are not normally enacted much before the end of the autumn sittings. This means that settlement would have been planned not before early or mid-June. Negotiations with 
Qantas revealed that it had planned its operations on the basis of the two aircraft being sold in March. To have deferred the sale would have resulted in cash flow problems in relation to new aircraft purchases. Qantas would have had no difficulty at all in selling the aircraft to another purchaser in March consistent with its normal commercial operations. Because the Government expects Qantas to conduct its business as a commercial enterprise, it was fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of payments being made in March. Some honourable members may ask why no provision was made in the Budget. I have already indicated that the Government had not been able to locate suitable aircraft at that time. It was therefore decided that no provision should be made in the Budget Estimates. It is relevant to remind honourable members that the principles to be observed by departments in preparing estimates include the following. Estimates for all items of expenditure shall represent a realistic assessment of the sum that is expected to be spent having regard to the information available to the department at the time of preparation. Estimates shall not include amounts in respect of proposals which are so far from firm that it is not possible to form any real estimate of what payments, if any, will be made. 
Honourable members may ask why the Government did not introduce a special Bill to obtain parliamentary approval for the purchase? It is not the practice for special Bills to be introduced to authorise the Government to purchase particular items of defence equipment or indeed other major items of equipment. The Government rejects completely any suggestion of deceit surrounding the purchase of these aircraft. On 13 December 1978 Cabinet approved the purchase of two Boeing 707-338 aircraft and associated supplies and services at an estimated cost of $ 14.575m. Cabinet was aware that the purchase would need to be funded from the Advance to the Minister for Finance. On 13 December 1978 the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  made a Press announcement of the decision to buy two Boeing 707 aircraft. 
The Government rejects any suggestion that the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance in any way prevents adequate parliamentary scrutiny of public expenditure. The Parliament has appropriated Advance moneys for decades without any restriction against their use to meet the cost of services for which no provision was made in a relevant Supply or Appropriation Act. The use of the advances in anticipation of a parliamentary appropriation has been normal practice for years by governments of either political persuasion. Whether a payment is urgent and unable to await the provision of an appropriation in the normal way must be a matter for decision by the Minister for Finance or by the Government. In accordance with normal practice an amount of $10,200,610 is due to be paid to Qantas by 30 March 1 979- in a day or two. This amount will be included in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) which is due for introduction in the Parliament shortly. Honourable members will have at that time ample opportunity to debate the merits of the Government 's decision. No further payments are contemplated this financial year but it may be necessary to seek funds in the Supply Bill which will be introduced in May to cover the final payment to Qantas which could become due early in the next financial year. 
It may be well to remind members of the Opposition who raised this matter that they also had use of the Advance to the Treasurer, as it was then known, during their term in government. Whilst convention prevents me from having access to records of a previous government there are three well publicised but maybe questionable uses of the Advance when Labor was in government. In April-May 1973, $8.3m was provided for the purchase of pipes for the MoombaSydney pipeline in anticipation of Additional Estimates. Not many people will forget that in September 1973, $1.1 3m was provided to purchase the painting 'Blue Poles' in anticipation of appropriation. This was quite controversial at the time. Other payments were made for equity participation in tourist developments such as the Old Sydney Town project. 
From listening to the honourable member for Port Adelaide I do not really think he is very concerned about whether the Advance to the Minister for Finance has been used correctly; he is more concerned about trying to get some political advantage out of the purchase of the 707 aircraft. I think that we should ask ourselves some questions. Is travel by a national leader necessary? Australia is an important and large trading nation. It is essential that a national leader of the day plays his role in international conferences, whether of a Commonwealth, world or regional character. If we accept that there is a need for the nation's leader to travel, we would hardly disagree with the point of view that these days air travel is a pretty necessary component. Therefore, we should ask ourselves how a leader should travel by air. I repeat that it has been clearly demonstrated from security reports that to continue to allow a national leader to travel by commercial aircraft would be to take security risks which we as a government are not prepared to take. We are not prepared to ignore the warning. If honourable members opposite will not accept the growth of international terrorismthere have been plenty of instances of it- this Government is prepared to accept that it occurs. It will not put at risk the safety of a Prime Minister and the safety of hundreds of other people who could be travelling with him. The honourable member for Port Adelaide mentioned  Sir Robert  Mark. The former chief of Scotland Yard said: 
In a country so dependent on air travel as Australia, the use of VIP aircraft which subtracted attractive targets from the main stream of passengers has much to commend it as a counter-terrorist measure. 
We took that very good advice. We will not risk the life of the Prime Minister of this country and the lives of other passengers who may be travelling on the same aircraft. In addition, when a Prime Minister travels by commercial aircraft there is enormous inconvenience to other people because of the tight security arrangements which are necessary. The Government's decision was based upon security advice. That advice was a critical element in the decision. 
Of course, these special purpose aircraft will not be used simply by the Prime Minister. In fact, their use by the Prime Minister will probably be about one-fifth of their total use. Eighty per cent of their time will be used for the normal defence transport purposes.The aircraft will be based at Richmond which is the headquarters of the transport base in Australia. Each year $ lm alone will be saved in the 24 return flights to Butterworth for which we have been chartering aircraft for a considerable number of years. Far from being used simply by the Prime Minister, 80 per cent of the time of the aircraft will be used by the Royal Australian Air Force in the normal way in which it uses other facilities available to it. The decision was taken after exhaustive investigation and after very sound advice was offered to the Government. The decision was right. It was in the interests of the security of this country. Not only was the decision right but also the manner in which it was implemented, through using on this occasion the Advance to the Minister for Finance, was equally right and proper. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I present Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79 which, together with Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1978-79, which I shall introduce shortly. comprises the additional Estimates for 1978-79. In these Bills, Parliament is asked to appropriate moneys to meet essential and unavoidable expenditures additional to the appropriations made under Appropriation Acts (Nos 1 and 2) 1978-79. The additional appropriations total $289.565m. Of this, $223.205m is sought in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $66.36m in Appropriation Bill (No. 4). 
The additional appropriations sought in the Bills are offset to some extent by savings in other appropriations made by Appropriation Acts (Nos 1 and 2), resulting pardy from the Government's determined efforts to achieve savings in expenditure wherever possible. These savings, amounting to $ 107.1m, are detailed under the relevant appropriation headings in a document which has been distributed to honourable members. 
Notwithstanding the additional appropriations now sought, current expectations are that total outlays for 1978-79, including those financed from special appropriations, will exceed the 
Budget estimate by only a relatively small margin. This reflects the Government's continued adherence to its policies of restraint in public sector spending. 
I now outline some of the main areas where the Government has found it necessary to seek additional appropriations in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1978-79. Honourable members will recall that the Budget contained an allowance of $50m for prospective wage and salary rate increases in the Public Service but that that amount was not then appropriated. Parliament is now being asked to appropriate $43. 5m in respect of such increases since the Budget, and a further $ 12.4m is needed, mainly for essential staff increases, particularly in the Department of Social Security and as a consequence of the rearrangement of departmental functions which took effect on 5 December 1978. The appropriations for the latter purpose are offset by savings in the appropriations of the abolished departments. 
Included under Administrative Expenses votes is $2. 9m for the Department of Transport due to increased activity, particularly in the air transport area, and to cost increases; $4.7m is required by the Attorney-General's Department for legal aid payments to private legal practitioners, although a substantial portion is offset by savings in amounts appropriated for payments to State legal aid commissions, which will not now be spent due to delays in the commencement of some commissions. 
Under the 'Other Services', heading, $ 1 6.5m is sought for the Department of Defence for replacement equipment and stores and a further $48.2m for new equipment and stores. Of the latter amount, $ 10.2m has been included for the purchase of two Boeing 707 aircraft for special transport purposes. This amount represents an addition to that which otherwise would have been decided upon by the Government for defence purposes. 
An additional $3.3m has been included for the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs for the extension of the Community Youth Support Scheme and $3m for the Department of Foreign Affairs for increased contributions under the United Nations High Commission for refugees program of assistance for Indo-Chinese refugees. 
Other provisions include: $2. 5m for the Australian National University for cost supplementation; $2. 8m for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, mainly to meet the cost of national wage and other awards; and $3.8m for the Australian National Railways to meet interest charges on interest-bearing advances. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I first met Charles Adermann about 13 or 14 years ago, but I knew a lot about him as a member of parliament and a Minister well before that. He left the Parliament before I became a member of it but I had a lot to do with him. It is really as an outstanding Queenslander that I want to remember him. I well recall his actions when certain discussions took place between the Liberal Party and the then Country Party in Queensland. At times those discussions got a little robust. People have spoken about  Sir Charles  being friendly. That was very true. They have also spoken about his being tough. I saw that characteristic on a number of occasions. I regarded him as a very shrewd person. He did not hesitate to pull up officials of the Liberal Party or the State parliamentary leaders if he thought they were getting a little over the fence, but he was even-handed. He had no hesitation in pulling up members of his own party, including the present State parliamentary leader, if he thought that the occasion demanded it. He was able to do so simply because he was respected by us all. He was a very fine Queenslander. I convey to Lady Adermann and to my friend the Minister for Veterans' Affairs my sincere sympathy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. 
(a) to (c) Not applicable. 
Trailer Vehicles: Jack-knifing (Question No. 3841) 
The story of Labor's three-year rule makes a sobering case study of what can happen to such an economically advantaged country as Australia when high spending proponents of big government are voted into power. Between 1972 and 1975 the Australian people were treated to economic mismanagement the like of which has never been seen before in this country. The results of this mismanagement are on record. All the huffing and puffing of recent days by the Opposition has been so much meaningless political posturing. The simple fact is that, in government, too many Labor Ministers proved to be poor managers and administrators. Perhaps because of inexperience and a measure of naivete, they failed to work together as an efficient management team, either with one another or with the full time professionals who make up the Australian Public Service. The pursuit by Labor Ministers of individual goals and the failure to think through the economic consequences of their actions imposed intolerable strains on resource allocation in this country. 
Labor's approach to management of the country's affairs provides an object lesson in how not to do it. Much of Labor's problems and troubles in government were caused by the inability of Ministers to grasp economic realities. For the last 24 hours, the Australian people have listened to an Opposition which still promotes policies which contributed to the serious economic downturn in this nation. The Labor Party, as expressed through their spokesmen during this debate, are once again asking the Australian people 'to endure the unendurable'. The Australian people showed decisively in 1975 and once again in 1 977 that they were not prepared in any circumstances to endure the economic hardships forced progressively upon them during 1973, 1974 and 1975. For three years this Government has fought hard to rectify the economic sabotage wreaked upon the nation by a party totally lacking in any form of economic responsibility. The task has not been an easy one. The energies of this Government have been totally directed towards reducing inflation and facilitating a revival in private sector activity. Having just listened to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  it is quite obvious that he does not like private enterprise, that he does not like profits, that he is completely immersed in socialist philosophies. 
Inherent in the Government's economic policies has been our unremitting objective to control Government expenditure. This critical component of our economic policies falls directly within my portfolio responsibilities, and let no one here underestimate the Government's determination to continue exercising a tight control over this area of economic management. This commitment, this promise, if you like, to the Australian people, enunciated first in 1975 and reaffirmed in 1977, is being honoured. The first point to be emphasised is that the statement made on Thursday night by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  did not pretend to be a full catalogue of our expenditure decisions for 1979-80. Those decisions will be set out in the Budget. Rather, the Treasurer's statement illustrated, for a number of important programs, the kinds of decisions the Government has had to take in its continuing battle to check the growth in its own spending, and hence in taxation and in the deficit. 
Decisions were announced to provide time for the necessary adjustments in the spending plans of individuals and of States and departments; To maximise savings from the measures in 1979-80; and, importantly, to counter wild and uninformed speculation about the Government's intentions- speculation which is often encouraged by unscrupulous people bent upon undermining confidence in the economy and causing needless worry and anxiety to those least able to cope with it. There is no denying the vital contribution which our policies of sustained restraint on expenditures have made to the restoration, after 3 years of economic hooliganism under our predecessors, of responsible and commonsense economic policies. It is clear that the Government, unlike its predecessors, is not a government of big spenders. The record demonstrates this conclusively. 
In the first Labor Budget- 1973-74-outlays grew by 20 per cent. At that time this was the largest increase in the post-war period. But in the following year the Labor Government trumped that figure and outlays increased by 46 per cent. Even the big spending Labor Government realised that increases of this magnitude were too much for the economy to digest and in its last Budget it tried, miserably and dismally to cut back. In the event, outlays grew in 1975-76 by 23 per cent- half the rate of the year before. This occurred only after a coalition government which came into office at the end of 1975 had undertaken a major expenditure review. 
During Labor's three years Budget outlays overall more than doubled as did taxation. Personal income tax increased by about 90 per cent. It was a dismal record of profligate spending. The huge and unprecedented spending binge of the Labor Government created economic headaches of an equally massive magnitude. There is no question that the excessive increases in Budget outlays under Labor, with its accompanying large deficits and burgeoning money supply, were a major contributing factor in the serious inflationary problems with which this country and this Government has had to grapple over the past three and a half years. It is just as clear that a key element in any concerted attempt to overcome these problems must be firm restraint upon the Government's own spending. As for our record, the figures speak for themselves. 
The honourable member should listen to the figures. They provide a good comparison with the figures I mentioned a few moments ago. Budget outlays increased by only 10 per cent in 1976-77 and 11 per cent in 1977-78. The increase in the current year is expected to be only  %Vi  per cent, which will be the smallest increase in a decade. 
It is too early to be specific about what the increase in Budget outlays should be for next year. In broad terms, however, our objective will be to achieve an overall rate of increase next year no greater than that in prospect for 1978-79. The achievement of this objective represents a task of substantial magnitude, particularly given the momentum for increased expenditures which is built into modern Budgets. No government can ever begin to meet all the requests for assistance that are laid at its feet and still expect to bring down a fiscally responsible Budget. 
The forward estimates of expenditure for 1979-80, which were collected a few months ago, point to a prospective total increase in Budget outlays next year of about 13 per cent. This increase was almost entirely in respect of continuing or ongoing programs and activities. Taken together with existing policy estimates of receipts, it implied, as the Treasurer indicated, a deficit of about $4,600m. Clearly, early and decisive action to cut back projected expenditure was called for if we were not to slip back into the morass of burgeoning deficits and money supply and the rampant inflation of the Labor years. Arriving at the right prescription, however, is the easy part of the process. To identify the cutbacks is much more difficult. To this end, we embarked upon a careful and painstaking examination of our major expenditure proposals. The decisions announced by the Treasurer are the first products of that continuing process. 
These decisions will not always be popular. Programs with intrinsic merit are having to be scrutinised carefully and commitments to some individual programs are having to be modified to satisfy commitments to responsible economic management and the restoration of sustainable economic growth. At the same time we are concerned to see that the most needy and vulnerable groups in our community are protected. The decisions announced by the Treasurer last Thursday testify to our concern for these various considerations. 
Let me give some examples. Good seasons and large increases in rural incomes have provided an opportunity to scale down support for primary producers in 1979-80 but we have not gone and will not go so far as to threaten the longer term viability of the industry. Declining school enrolments and stabilising enrolments in universities and colleges of advanced education also provide an opportunity to moderate the flow of resources into those areas. Evidence of inefficiency in hospital operation and administration clearly calls for urgent action to eliminate such inefficiency. Hospital charges could not continue to be held constant while hospital operating costs go on rising sharply. The Government cannot afford to continue to offer, out of taxpayers' funds, home savings grants for the purchase of expensive homes by those who can finance home ownership from their own resources. 
So far as action to protect the needy is concerned, let me remind the House that standard ward hospital accommodation will remain free for uninsured patients. Existing generous medical benefits covering arrangements for pensioners and the socially disadvantaged will be maintained. There is an assurance that social security pensions and benefits and repatriation payments will be maintained. The point to be emphasised again is that whilst the decisions on outlays announced by the Treasurer on Thursday reduced prospective outlays for 1979-80 by some $400m, and thereby contributed to the framing of a responsible Budget in August, there can be no let-up in our resolve to contain government spending. 
The present Government has achieved a reputation for responsibility. The Labor Opposition knows only too well that when it was in government the deficit as a percentage of the gross national product reached as high as 5 per cent. Today it is about  3Vi  per cent, and we are committed to a further reduction. In relation to taxation, the rapacious taxation laws that were operative under the Hayden tax scale meant a marginal rate of about 45c in the dollar for people in the $10,000 to $11,000 income bracket. Today, even with the surcharge operating, the marginal rate paid on incomes up to $16,000 is more than 10c in the dollar less than that paid under Labor. There has been a substantial reduction in personal income tax. 
Good signs are emerging in the economy. Increased investment and production, rising commodity prices and improving farm incomes will all benefit the Australian community. The Government is not prepared to allow any reemergence of inflationary trends to put at risk in any way the gains that have been made. The Government's prime objective is to continue the downward thrust on the rate of inflation, and a critical element in that fight is the reduction in the growth of government expenditure. The Treasurer's statement of last Thursday night indicated our commitment to that objective. It will be reflected again in the 1979-80 Budget. 
Recovery is on the way. There is growing confidence and optimism in the community. I ask honourable members to compare this with the despair of just  Vh  years ago. The gains have been hard won; they will not be put at risk. Th  z  Government parties are united behind the Government's policies. The Labor Party had its chance and mucked it up. It wants to continue those same policies now. It has learned nothing from its period in government. The criticism of honourable members opposite is entirely destructive; they offer nothing constructive. Condemned in government, they remain condemned in Opposition. This Government has proved to be responsible and successful, and will prove to be even more so in the years ahead. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report by the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust on the management of the Superannuation Fund during the year ended 30 June 1978 together with cash statements in respect of that year in the form of a receipts and payments statement and an investments statement; and, an interim report by the Commissioner for superannuation on the General administration and operation of the Superannuation Act 1976, other than Part III, which deals with the management of the Superannuation Fund, and the superseded Superannuation Act 1922 during the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to Regulation 8A(2) of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Superannuation Regulations made on 30 May 1977 under the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act 1973,I present the report on the operations of the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Board and the Contract Officers (Papua New Guinea) Retirement Benefits Board for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
by leave- I inform honourable members that pursuant to section 48K of the Audit Act 1901, the GovernorGeneral has approved arrangements made by me for  Mr Evan  D. Cameron, F.C.A.,  Chairman  of the National Management Committee of Hungerfords, chartered accountants of 167 Macquarie Street, Sydney, New South Wales, to be the independent auditor of the AuditorGeneral's Office. Hungerfords is a national partnership totally owned and controlled in Australia. The firm is one of the four founding firms of Alexander Grant Tansley Witt, an international accounting association represented by some 8,000 people in more than SO countries. Whilst each of the member firms has the right to use the international firm name, Alexander Grant Tansley Witt does not itself practice. Its purpose is to lay down the technical standards and policies for all of its member firms in order to ensure that clients of the member firms are provided with services of the highest quality in whichever countries they operate. 

 Mr Cameron has been a partner of Hungerfords since 1962. He became  Chairman  of the firm's National Management Committee in 1977.  Mr Cameron's  appointment is for three financial years commencing with the year 1978-79. As required by the Audit Act, his first report will be in respect of the financial year 1978-79 and will be annexed to the AuditorGeneral 's Report in respect of that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the majority of cases, the amounts of basic contributions allocated to contributors to the old pension scheme in the allocation of the old Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1976 were less than the contributions actually paid by those contributors. In other cases, including contributors to the old Provident Account, basic contributions exceeded the contributions paid. In no case, however, was the total allocation to a former pension scheme contributor, that is basic and supplementary contributions combined, less than the contributions paid, this being a condition of the arrangements approved by the Government. 
The predominant reason for basic contributions of pension scheme contributors being, in the majority of cases, less than contributions paid is to be found in the insurance basis of the old pension scheme. Under that scheme, substantial benefits were available to a contributor on his invalidity retirement or to his widow and children on his death whilst a contributor. The cost of these benefits was met partly by the Government and partly from the Superannuation Fund. Generally, a contributor at the time of his premature retirement or death would not have paid enough, even after allowing for earnings on his contributions, to meet the expected cost of that part of the future pension benefits payable from the Superannuation Fund; the shortfall, which was considerable when the retiring or deceased contributor was young, was shared amongst the remaining contributors. 
Thus, at 30 June 1976, the total allocation of basic and supplementary contributions for each contributor not only reflected the contributions paid by him and the income those contributions had earned but also his share of the cost of benefits payable to others and any surplus and refunds of excess contributions he had previously received. 
Surplus interest earnings on contributors' funds during the period 1 July 1972 to 30 June 1976 were allocated in a similar manner to that used at the 1974 distributions of the surplus found in the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1972, and was included in pension scheme contributors 'supplementary contributions as at 30 June 1 976. For each of the four years in the period 1 July 1 972 to 30 June 1 976 the average actuarial reserve in the Fund for a contributor was calculated. The surplus interest earned in each of those years was allocated in proportion to the average actuarial reserve for the year for each contributor, this approach being designed to achieve equitable treatment for all contributors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question No. 3172. (Weekly  Hansard  for the week 4-7 June, page 3 1 43 ). 
My understanding is that the figures and percentages cited by the honourable member for Murray are correct and that there was an increase. However, I think that four years ago the figure was 53 per cent, not 75 per cent. Of course, the question of retirement of public servants is a matter for either the Public Service Board or the employing authority. Standards of health are set down by the employing authority and are carried out by the Department of Health. Obviously mental health falls within those examinations. Periodic reviews are also conducted by the Commissioner for Superannuation and I think that last year about 40 people were deemed fit to resume service. I do not know that any further action can be taken, but I will consult with the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters and the Minister for Health to see whether I can give the honourable member any further information. 
I present the following papen 
Advance to the Minister for Finance 1978-79- Statement of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1 90 1 . 
Ordered that the statement be taken into consideration in Committee of the Whole House at the next sitting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Expenditure of $10.20 lm from the Advance to the Minister for Finance in respect of two B707 aircraft resulted from a decision by the Government last December. 
and (4) See the Prime Minister's answer on 31 May 1979(Senate Weekly  Hansard,  pp. 2510-1 1 ). 
The requirement for urgent payment was a condition of the Qantas offer and was dictated by commercial considerations on Qantas ' part. 
Boeing VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 3684) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the event the actual amount authorised to 30 June 1 979 on the two B707 aircraft was $ 1 3.553m made up of: 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1 947, 1 present the annual report by the trustees for the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31 December 1978, together with the report of the AuditorGeneral required under section 25 of the above Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has not been drawn to the report referred to. 
It is not possible to specify what the effects on government spending of hypothetical transactions might be. 
by leave- I move: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of the report of the Auditor-General for the year 1978-79. 
That the paper be printed. 
The copy of the report which the AuditorGeneral has transmitted to the House in respect of the 1978-79 financial year is, as required by section 53 (3) (A) of the Audit Act, accompanied by a copy of the annual financial statements prepared by me pursuant to section 50 (4) of the Audit Act. The form of the statements differs from that presented in previous years as a direct result of one of a number of important amendments made by the Audit Amendment Act 1979, which was assented to on 7 March 1979. 
The amendments affect the statements in two basic ways, both of which reflect the greater emphasis now given by the Audit Act to the responsibility of permanent heads for the financial management of their departments. Firstly, the information on receipts and expenditure has been rearranged so that the basic classification is by department rather than by fund. All relevant transactions of a department whether from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Trust Fund or the Loan Fund, are shown under the departmental heading. In accordance with the definition now contained in the Audit Act, 'department' in this context includes a branch or part of the Australian Public Service in relation to which a person has the powers of a permanent head. 
Honourable members will, I am sure, find this form of presentation much more useful than the format followed for very many years in the previous statement of receipts and expenditure which accompanied the Auditor-General's report. Summaries of total receipts and expenditure from the various funds, however, continue to be shown in tables similar to those used in previous years. The second basic change results from the requirement of section 50 (3) of the Audit Act for certain information to be furnished by permanent heads. Prior to the recent amendments, the Auditor-General was obliged to explain in full the statement prepared by the Minister for Finance. That requirement has been removed. Instead, it is now the responsibility of each permanent head to provide explanatory material in respect of his own department. 
In particular, the Act requires that the explanations include the following details not previously reported to the Parliament: The total number and aggregate value of act of grace payments made during the year under my authority; the number and aggregate value of payments due to the Commonwealth, recovery of which has been waived during the year under my authority; particulars, in summary form, of amounts written off during the year in respect of losses or deficiencies of moneys or stores, irrecoverable revenue, irrecoverable debts and overpayments. 
In redesigning the statements to incorporate these basic changes, a number of improvements has also been made to the format. Some of the summary tables have been changed to give more information. Honourable members will note that additional detail is given on the transactions of individual trust accounts within the Trust Fund. 
On the other hand, we have omitted some of the tables previously included in the AuditorGeneral 's explanations where that information is available in other Budget papers. 
I should also add that, earlier this year, there was an exchange of correspondence on the form of these statements between my Department and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. As a result of that, an undertaking was given to the  Chairman  that these statements would be discussed with the Committee following their presentation and, if necessary, revised in the light of the Committee 's view. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's questionis as follows: 
1 refer the honourable member to the answer given to his Question No. 38S0  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, page 977). 
None, but a copy of the article referred to was forwarded to me by the honourable member on 12 September 1 979 and received by me on 1 3 September 1 979. 
3 ) 1 do not propose to make any comment on this article. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Administrative Services on 1 1 September 1979 to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  pages 972-3). 
-I have seen reports in the financial Press about the alleged effects the matter raised by the right honourable member for Lowe might have on some motor vehicle importers and distributors. I was not aware until this morning that Leyland in fact did operate in the electorate of the right honourable member for Lowe. I am not aware that the Government has reconsidered this matter. It was a matter for Budget consideration in two areas: The first was the question of fixing as a maximum the amount of money in relation to which a taxation deduction could be claimed for depreciation purposes; the other was the question of non-taxable capital gains for vehicles which had been sold and which had been subject to leasing arrangements over a period of years. Of course, I have respect for the views of the right honourable member for Lowe. I will certainly take into account his comments to me. I will get from him as much information as I can in relation to the effects, as he sees it, on the various areas that he has indicated. 
The Government's guarantee as to the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd is for half of $9m. It was a joint guarantee with the Victorian Government for commercial borrowings. The Commonwealth has guaranteed up to $4.5m. Information coming to me is that there are difficulties in the industry and the position has somewhat deteriorated. It is not possible for me to tell the honourable member for Moore whether there will be any loss. I understand that abattoirs in Victoria, because of some reduction in the throughput, are having difficulty. There has been a request from the  Chairman  of the co-operative for an additional $4m from the shareholders to be paid to that co-operative. No allowance at all is made should there be a loss incurred by the Commonwealth Government with regard to the guarantee. 
Other borrowings that I know the honourable member for Moore and other honourable members have been interested in include the borrowing of $2. 4m for the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd. Mount Lyell is now in a cash flow situation. I expect that money to be repaid during the course of this financial year. I have had correspondence with  Mr Batt,  the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania, about this matter and I see no reason why it should not be repaid during this year. In fact the receipts allow for repayment of that figure. The other area of concern is the matter of the Chrysotile Corporation of Australia at Woodsreef. The agreement with the New South Wales Government and that company has not yet been finalised but the amount with which the Government could be involved is $1.4m. I can only indicate in that respect that my information is that one cannot be very optimistic, given the report that I have concerning that industry and that corporation. Of course, we do give a number of other guarantees. Guarantees to organisations such as Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd involve very large, substantial, even immense amounts of money. I do not see any possible risk in those very substantial guarantees that the Commonwealth has given. 
-Yes, I have seen reports concerning this matter. There has been a substantial amount of publicity about it in recent weeks. It is a Budget measure and, as such, was announced by the Treasurer. Of course, it will require separate legislation which as yet has not come before the Government for finalisation. I have not had any personal representations on it. I can recall receiving correspondence about it. It is my understanding that the Treasurer, prior to his going overseas, did see some people from the industry who expressed concern at the effect it had. The honourable member is quite correct; it is in two parts. I thought that I had mentioned that earlier. First of all, there is the fixing of the maximum figure for a vehicle on which depreciation deductibility will be allowed. Secondly, there is an area which has been abused substantially, and that is people who have had a vehicle on lease selling it to an associate for the residual figure and then selling it for a much higher figure, with a capital gain and no taxation. I am not sure of the figure, but I think that $20m to $25m was the tax lost because of that particular occurrence. 
by leave- This report was tabled on 3 April 1 979. It raised a number of fundamental and complex questions about the public expenditure process, the role of the Parliament in that process, and the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive. The Government is giving very careful consideration to the issues raised in the report, particularly because of their nature and importance. The Government will therefore not be in a position to respond to the report in detail strictly within the time frame of six months which it is our policy generally to adhere to. However, I wish to inform honourable members that I expect to be able to make a full statement to the House on the Government's response to the report within the next few weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3172 (House of Representatives  Hansard  of7 June 1979, page3143). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The most recent year in respect of which the relevant data are available is 1976. ABS statistics indicate that at 3 1 December of that year: 
foreign control of finance companies in Australia, based on balances outstanding on finance agreements, was 48.2 per cent; and 
on the same basis, control of finance companies in Australia by United States companies was 26.5 per cent and by United Kingdom companies 17.9 per cent. 
These statistics should be interpreted in the light of the Explanatory Notes in the ABS Bulletin 'Foreign Control of Finance Companies 1976' (5324.0). Comparable data for the years 1 977 and 1978 are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
ABS statistics indicate that for the financial year 1975-76: 
1 ) Eighty-one enterprises contributed towards expenditure on petroleum exploration in Australia. 
The total value of the exploration expenditure, including both on-shore and off-shore exploration, was $59.6 million. 
Forty of the enterprises involved were foreign-controlled. 
The percentage of expenditure funded by foreigncontrolled enterprises was 74.4 per cent. 
(a) 22 of the enterprises were US-controlled; and(b) 8 of the enterprises were UK-controlled. 
(a) The 22 US-controlled enterprises accounted for 34.1 per cent of the total expenditure on petroleum exploration; and (b) the 8 UK-controlled enterprises accounted for 36.7% of the expenditure. 
These statistics should be interpreted in the light of the Explanatory Notes in the ABS Bulletin 'Foreign Control in Mineral Exploration 1975-76' (5323.0). Comparable data for the years 1977 and 1 978 are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
ABS statistics indicate that for the financial year 1 975-76: 
1 ) 502 enterprises contributed towards expenditure on mineral (excluding petroleum) exploration. 
163 of the enterprises involved were foreign-controlled. 
54.4 per cent of expenditure was undertaken by foreign-controlled enterprises. 
Of the 163 foreign-controlled enterprises, 56 were US-controlled and 39 were UK-controlled. 
The proportion of expenditure on mineral exploration (excluding petroleum) which was funded in each State and in the Northern Territory by foreigncontrolled enterprises was as follows: 
New South Wales (40.6 per cent); Victoria (25 per cent); Queensland (58.3 per cent); South Australia (41.8 per cent); Western Australia (63.9 per cent); Tasmania (60 per cent); and the Northern Territory (38.4percent). 
These statistics should be interpreted in the light of the Explanatory Notes in the ABS Bulletin 'Foreign Control in Mineral Exploration 1975-76' (5323.0). Comparable data for the years 1977 and 1978 are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics showing the percentage of value added accounted for by the largest 200 manufacturing enterprise groups in 1977 and 1978 are not available. 
The most recent ABS statistics are for 1 975-76. These statistics indicate that in 1975-76 the largest 200 enterprise groups accounted for 50 per cent of the value added of all manufacturing industry. 
1977-78 data are not available. In 1975-76, 86 of the largest 200 manufacturing enterprise groups were foreign-controlled. 
In 1975-76, the 86 foreign-controlled enterprise groups in the largest 200 manufacturing enterprise groups accounted for 43 per cent of the value added by those enterprise groups and for 22 per cent of the total value added by manufacturing industry. Comparable data for later years are not available. 
The foreign-controlled enterprise groups amongst the largest 200 manufacturing enterprise groups in 1975-76 accounted for 40 per cent of employment, 41 per cent of wages and salaries, and 49 per cent of fixed capital expenditure in manufacturing industry. Equivalent proportions of total manufacturing industry were, respectively, 18 per cent, 20 per cent and 29 per cent. Comparable data for later years are not available. 
In 1975-76, of the 86 foreign-controlled enterprise groups amongst the largest 200 enterprise groups in manufacturing industry, 45 per cent (39) were UK-controlled and 41 per cent (35) were US-controlled. Comparable data for 1977 and 1978 are not available. 
Statistics covering the operations of all foreign-controlled enterprises in the whole of the economy are not available. 
These statistics should be interpreted in the light of the Explanatory Notes in the ABS Bulletin 'Foreign Control in Manufacturing Industry: Study of Large Enterprise Groups 1975-76' (5315.0). In particular, it should be noted that while the question refers to 'enterprises' the information requested is available only in respect of 'enterprise groups'. The 'enterprise group' is defined as the aggregation of all manufacturing establishments operated by a group of enterprises related in terms of Section 6 of the uniform companies legislation. 
-I did not read the article referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. It is true that the Government has decided to discontinue the trading stock valuation adjustment. That decision was reached after the Government looked at all the implications. It is fair to observe that the benefit of the trading stock valuation adjustment was not used by the corporate sector in the manner in which either its architect or the Government believed it ought to be used. I know from my own experience that a number of people in the corporate area now recognise that it was not used in the manner in which it ought to have been used. 
The Leader of the Opposition continues with his attitude that discontinuance of the trading stock valuation adjustment will create some gloom; that there will be increased prices. That will not be the case; nor will it create conditions under which expansion of the private sector will not occur. In fact, good investment and export signs are evident in the Australian economy which I am certain the Leader of the Opposition could well observe in his quieter moments. 
-I am not aware in detail of that scheme but I will ascertain all the information that I can get and advise the honourable member about it. It is fair to observe that the present Treasurer during his period in the Treasury has done more than anybody else in the history of this country to clamp down on tax avoidance schemes. He ought to be commended on the manner in which he has conducted that responsibility. Indeed, I am not aware of any initiative which the present Leader of the Opposition or two other Treasurers took during Labor's term of office. 
Pursuant to section 2 1 of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Termination Act 1976I present the report on the general administration and operation of the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Scheme and the Contract Officers Retirement Benefits Scheme 1979. 
I seek leave to inform the House of the outcome of the inaugural meeting of the Great Barrier Reef Ministerial Council which took place in Brisbane last Thursday, 4 October. 
Leave granted. 
The Ministerial Council at this inaugural meeting was I as convenor;  Senator the  Honourable James Webster, the Commonwealth Minister for Science and the Environment; the Honourable Max D. Hooper, the Queensland Minister for Maritime Services and Tourism; the Honourable Ivan Gibbs, the Queensland Minister for Culture, National Parks and Recreation. I replaced the Right Honourable Phillip Lynch as convenor, as  Mr Lynch  was not able to be present at the meeting. 
Before going into detail on that meeting, I believe it would be useful if I recounted the developments which culminated in last Thursday's meeting. The relationship between the Commonwealth and the Queensland governments on issues concerning the Great Barrier Reef has continued for a long time. Nearly a decade ago both governments agreed to the appointment of the joint Royal Commissions into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the Area of the Great Barrier Reef, on 5 May 1970. The Royal Commissions reported to both governments on 1 November 1974. 
The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act developed the relationship to a further stage by establishing the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority which provides an avenue for consultation between the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland at the officials' level. That legislation also established the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee which provides a forum for discussion among officials, experts, interest groups and industry representatives. It creates a mechanism for the interest groups represented on it to provide specialised advice to the Marine Park Authority and to the Minister for Science and the Environment. 
The House will recall that on 4 June 1979 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this place announced the Commonwealth's decision as a result of its examination of the report by the Royal Commissions I referred to earlier. The Government decided that there should be no further exploration in the Great Barrier Reef region and that there should be no renewal of petroleum permits in the region until the results of both short and longer term research are known. 
A further- and significant- development occurred on 14 June when the Prime Minister and the Premier of Queensland signed an agreement establishing the Great Barrier Reef Ministerial Council. This Council was established to provide a clearly recognisable forum for consultation and co-ordination at the ministerial level. Such a forum had not existed previously. Both the Prime Minister and the Premier in their joint agreement confirmed that it was the policy of their respective governments to prohibit any drilling on the Reef or any drilling or mining which could damage the Reef. The Commonwealth Government sees the development of the Ministerial Council as being entirely in keeping with its approach to proper sharing of responsibilities between the Commonwealth and the States. 
This brings me to the inaugural meeting of the Ministerial Council. The most important issue was the question of the first section- the Capricornia section- of the Great Barrier Reef region and its development as a marine park. I am very pleased to inform the House that the Ministerial Council, following its careful consideration of this issue, agreed to recommend that this matter should be processed without delay. The reefs and shoals of the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef form a distinct geographical unit. There are several habitable coral cays- islands composed of coral sand and rubble often densely vegetated- which provide a base for intensive recreational, tourist and scientific research use. Parts of this coral reef ecosystem are important breeding areas which are vital to the maintenance of several species of turtles and birds. The Capricornia area is the most accessible part of the reef for visitors from southern capitals and overseas. Local use by inhabitants of Bundaberg, Gladstone and Rockhampton is becoming increasingly heavy. The coastal centres benefit economically from the recreational and commercial uses of the reefs and surrounding waters. 
It might be helpful to the House if I mentioned the marine park concept- a concept which is certainly not familiar to most of us. A marine park differs substantially from a national park, which typically protects the natural landscape and allows only limited human use. The Great Barrier Reef in general- and the Capricornia section of the Reef in particular- presents a very different picture. It is already widely used and enjoyed and effective planning of the environment of the reef can occur only in close cooperation with the community which will continue to use it. I would say that the scale, diversity and complexity of the Great Barrier Reef are unmatched by any other marine environment in the world. Therefore the Marine Park will need to be designed to allow reasonable use while conserving the reef. It will therefore differ, at least in some respects, from other models already in existence or proposed elsewhere in the world. 
Finally, I must not let this occasion pass without mentioning the success of the initiative of creating the Great Barrier Reef Ministerial Council. We believe that in a matter of such importance as the Great Barrier Reef, major decisions need to be considered at the ministerial level by both governments. The Council has provided an appropriate mechanism to ensure that such consideration can take place. Furthermore, the very amicable meeting of the Council showed that the proper approach to issues where the interests of the Commonwealth and the State overlap is to engage in reasoned discussion. This approach is in sharp contrast to that advocated by the Opposition, which has consistently argued that the Commonwealth Government should ride roughshod over the important and legitimate interests of Queensland in this most important matter. The decision to progress the question of establishment of the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is, however, but a first step. There are many important matters which require early and detailed discussions so that we can have a fully operational marine park. I am confident that these issues will be speedily resolved and that the marine park will be an efficiently operating entity which will further serve to ensure that preservation of a unique feature of the heritage of Australia and Queensland. I present the following paper: 
The Great Barrier Reef Ministerial Council- Ministerial Statement, 9 October 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Street)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Total income tax collections in 1976-77 and 1977-78 were: 
The increase in the percentage of net PAYE to total income tax in 1977-78 is attributable to a number of factors. Two of the more significant of these factors are reflected in the table in (2 ), namely the very slow growth in primary producer income and business and property income in 1976-77 (which contributed to the relatively low level of collections in 1977-78), and the reduction in refunds in 1977-78 as a result of the introduction of the so-called Hayden scheme in 1975-76 (1977-78 being the first year in which the full-year effect of that system was reflected in refunds). 
Foreign Government Dossiers on Australians  (Question No. 3309) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table below sets out the ruling rates of interest for housing society investors and borrowers and bank housing loan rates, or their local equivalents in the country concerned, at June 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Accounting Office located with the Australian Embassy at Washington exercises financial oversight of and provides accounting services to the following Australian diplomatic missions: 
Embassies: Washington ( USA), Mexico City (Mexico ) 
High Commissions: Ottawa (Canada), Kingston (Jamaica) 
Consulates-General: New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco (USA), Toronto and Vancouver (Canada) 
Mission: Australian Mission to the United Nations, New York 
Consulate: Honolulu (USA) 
The advantages of the existing system, as compared with the imprest system referred to in part (4) of the honourable member's question, are: 
The Accounting Office provides a co-ordinated accounting service which: maximises the use of the Commonwealth's cash balances: enables transactions to be brought to account against appropriations without delay; avoids the need for the Department of Foreign Affairs to make payments and receive moneys on behalf of other departments and authorities and to render accounts to those departments and authorities in Australia for repayment to the Department of Foreign Affairs (in 1978-79 expenditure chargeable to appropriations of the Department of Foreign Affairs was only 5.3 per cent of the aggregated expenditure of the Commonwealth in the locations referred to in (1) above). 
Because of the aggregated volume of accounting transactions, automatic data processing facilities are applied to the task of controlling funds, maintaining ledgers, preparing cheques, scheduling transactions and preparing payrolls. 
Accounting for and servicing of loans raised by the Commonwealth are facilitated. 
The type of payments made by posts through imprest accounts, rather than by the Accounting Office, is approved by the Accounting Office Director in the light of local conditions in the area concerned and other relevant considerations such as urgency of payment; the size of individual payments is not of itself a determining factor. Expenditure from the post imprest accounts is reimbursed by the Accounting Office which records the transactions in the Commonwealth 's ledgers. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has recently proposed that all payments in respect of the posts at Mexico City and Kingston should be made by the posts through imprest accounts, with the imprest accounts being reimbursed from the Department in Canberra. This proposal is presently being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) An analysis of the costs of employment in relation to total production costs is available from input-output tables prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The latest year for which input-output statistics have been published is 1974-75. Information in respect of that year is provided in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Parliamentary Question No. 45 10 in today's  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Parliamentary Question No. 45 10 in today 's  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Parliamentary Question No. 45 10 in today's  Hansard. 
-I do recall the Treasurer, in answer to a question from the honourable member for Sturt, saying that he would give close study to the honourable member's submission on taxation matters. The Treasurer has asked that the matter be examined. The honourable member for Sturt asked me whether in fact that examination has started already. My understanding is that it has not, for the simple reason that the tax officials have been very busy, involved with Budget legislation and also tax avoidance legislation to which the Government and indeed the Parliament as a whole would want the Austraiian Taxation Office to give priority. 1 give an undertaking to the honourable member for Sturt that the report on his proposal will be available as quickly as possible and on the Treasurer's return this weekend I will put to him for consideration the suggestion that the proposal should go to the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) The net amounts of income tax outstanding in respect of companies at 30 June 1978 and 30 June 1 979 were $ 1 92m and $294m respectively. 
Of the amount outstanding at 30 June 1 978, $2 1 m related to assessments in which the due date for payment was after 30 June. A comparable figure for 30 June 1 979 is not available but it is known to be at least $35m. 
(a) and (b) Net collections in July and August 1979 amounted to $2 1 m and $62 7m respectively, of which $S93m was in respect of the first quarterly instalment for 1979-80 which became due on 15 August 1979. It is not known how much of the remaining collections had been outstanding at 30 June 1 979 but July collections would be expected to relate to assessments that had been issued prior to 1 July 1 979. 
(a) and (b) This information is not available. However, of the amount outstanding at 30 June 1 979, $ 1 74m was due for payment prior to I April 1979. 
Income Tax Collections from Individuals  (Question No. 4643) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) The net amounts of income tax outstanding in respect of individuals at 30 June 1978 and 30 June 1979 were $496m and $73 lm respectively. 
Of the amount outstanding at 30 June 1978 $99m related to assessments in which the due date for payment was after 30 June. A comparable figure for 30 June 1979 is not available but it is known to be at least $ 1 1 9m. 
(a) and (b) Net collections in July and August 1979 amounted to $66m and $47m respectively. It is not known how much of these amounts had been outstanding at 30 June 1979 but July collections would be expected to relate to assessments that had been issued prior to 1 July 1 979. 
(a) and (b) This information is not available. However, of the amount outstanding at 30 June 1 979, $223m was due for payment prior to 1 April 1979. 
The honourable member for Dawson was perfectly correct when he said that the Treasurer was having the matter of section 26E looked at. My understanding is that the review is virtually completed. I cannot give the honourable member an assurance as to when the legislation will come before the Parliament but I will bring his question to the attention of the Treasurer on his return at the weekend. My understanding is that no assessments at all have been held up by the Taxation Office pending consideration of this issue. If the honourable member does have any complaints, I would be grateful if he would advise me or the Treasurer and we will see that the matter is handled satisfactorily. One finds that some people want to get their assessments as quickly as possible in the hope of getting a refund. On the other hand, a lot of people hope that the assessments will be as late as possible because they know that they will have to pay a lot of money. But, if there are any complaints, please let us know. The Taxation Office assures me that no assessments have been deliberately held up. 
-Over the past few years it has been necessary for the Australian Government to borrow abroad, although the necessity to do that has diminished and is likely to diminish further with the responsible fiscal policy which this Government has been developing. There will be need again during this year to borrow overseas. We are all well aware of the effect that currency fluctuations have throughout the world, but Australia's credit rating is such that we borrow at the best possible rates overseas, and will continue to do so. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

-Obviously the Opposition knows that I come from Queensland. 
-Yes. I am very proud to come from the Gold Coast. I am really not aware of the development of the Moscow Narodny Bank. I have read that it has been active in Australia and in Asia. I certainly have no knowledge at all of any individual loan which it may make. Rules are applied by the authorities in this country regarding overseas borrowings, but I cannot possibly help the honourable member with any detail on any one borrowing. 
-Of course the Government is aware of the decisions that have been taken by the Federal Reserve in Washington. It watches with great interest, as every Australian government obviously does, decisions that are taken in the United States. It would be fair to observe that we are pleased to see that policy decisions in the United States are designed to have a greater degree of fiscal responsibility and to bear down upon inflation. Movement in interest rates has occurred only in recent weeks in the United States and the movement of capital is being monitored very carefully. Interest rates in the United States have increased. The effect which that may have internationally, including Australia, is being and will continue to be watched very carefully. Finally, I am sorry to disappoint the honourable member, but there is no prospect of a credit squeeze in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) It is the firm intention of the Government that  Mr Iwasaki,  his companies and his agents, should comply in full with the terms and conditions of the foreign investment approval for the Iwasaki tourist project at Yeppoon. Iwasaki Sangyo Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd has sought the Government's approval to acquire land and in certain cases to complete contracts entered into subject to Government approval in respect of land in the Yeppoon area additional to that set out in the Franchise Agreement between the company and the Queensland Government. The company has been reminded that the Government's approval has to be obtained before the company acquires, makes any arrangements, signs any contracts, or negotiates to acquire any additional land in any pan of Australia. Further consultations with the company on this matter are proceeding. The company has also been informed that the Government does not propose to consider any proposals to acquire land additional to that set out in the Franchise Agreement until a detailed submission concerning its overall plans for any additional land acquisitions, and the reasons for any such proposals has been received by the Foreign Investment Review Board. (3)No-butsee(l)and(2). 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926 I present the audit of accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30 June 1979. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Finance 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) $50 million. 
(i) defence-$30 million. 
non-defence- $35 million. 
These sums are the allowances included in the Budget estimates of outlays for the costs of prospective wage and salary increases of Commonwealth employees, including defence force personnel, paid from appropriations for salaries and payments in the nature of salary. The allowances do not distinguish between those employees employed under the Public Service Act and others. 
and (3) The allowances for prospective wage and salary increases referred to in answer to the first part of the honourable member's question are not particular amounts appropriated by the Parliament at Budget time. Instead, they are estimates, the calculation of which is necessarily approximate, which are included in the Budget figures of outlays (as distinct from appropriations) to provide Parliament and the public with a better indication of the likely order of total outlays during the year. The allowances are not, therefore, specific provisions which may become exhausted before the end of the financial year. 
Proposed appropriations for public service wages and salaries included in Schedule 2 of Appropriation Bill No. 1 are based on wage and salary rates applying at the time the Budget estimates are prepared. They do not include allowances for future wage and salary rate increases. 
Section 5 of the Appropriation Act No. 1 provides a special appropriation authorising the Minister for Finance, during a particular financial year, to issue out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund such amounts as he determines not exceeding amounts estimated to be necessary to meet increases in salaries and wages and payments in the nature of salary for which provision is made in Schedule 2 to the Act and which become payable during that year in accordance with a law, or an award order or determination under a law. Amounts payable from section 5 are, where possible, covered by later annual appropriations approved by the Parliament, namely in the Additional Estimates appropriations. Increases arising out of awards etc made after the preparation of the Additional Estimates stand as a charge against the special appropriation and are reported to the Parliament by means of the Financial Statements presented by the Minister for Finance pursuant to section 50 of the Audit Act 1901. 
In addition to section 5 of the Appropriation Act No. 1, a number of other special appropriations exist for the payment of salaries and allowances for Senators and Members, Justices of the High Court, Federal Judges, First Division Officers and Holders of Public Office, eg the appropriations contained in section 12 of the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952 and section 7 ( 13) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act. 
I should nevertheless add that the Government is determined to maintain maximum restraint on outlays in 1979-80 and aims, in particular, to hold total outlays in 1979-80 within the total Budget estimates. To that end economies in expenditure will be achieved to the maximum extent that is practicable without unduly impairing services provided to the public or the Government's other expenditure policy objectives. The methods by which such economies will be achieved include absorption of cost increases wherever possible and the financing of new expenditure requirements through offsetting savings in other expenditure items of lower priority. 
I seek leave to move together the amendments to the Bill that have been circulated in the name of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard ). 
Leave granted. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947,I present the annual report of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund 1978. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947, I present the report by the trustees of the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund 1978. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947, I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund 1978. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Amendment BUI 1979 is to amend the superannuation scheme provided under the Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Act 1948. Superannuation arrangements for parliamentary service have been in operation for many years at Commonwealth and State levels. Such arrangements have two main purposes. The first is recognition of the need for some measure of financial security for those who devote a significant portion of their working lives to parliamentary service. The second relates to the particular insecurities of political life; lack of adequate superannuation arrangements could lead to the danger of capable people not being attracted to stand for parliament. 
The existing parliamentary scheme allows a member to convert- that is, commute into a lump sum benefit- up to 50 per cent of his or her retiring allowance. Some State schemes, however, allow their members to commute the whole of their retiring allowance, and the Government considers that this should be also the case in the Commonwealth's parliamentary scheme. Accordingly, this Bill provides that a member who retires after the date of royal assent may elect to commute up to 100 per cent of his or her retiring allowance. The Australian Government Actuary has advised me that the proposed change is expected to reduce the cost of the scheme to the Commonwealth in the long term. The BUI makes a number of consequential amendments. Their effect is to ensure that the rights and liabilities of members who commute the whole of their retiring allowance, and of their eligible dependants, are the same as under the existing 50 per cent commutation provisions. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for National Development on 6 November 1979 to Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  pages 2657-8). 
-I have noticed the enthusiastic and consistent interest of the honourable member for Moore in matters such as this. My understanding is that a couple of weeks ago there was a meeting between the bankers, the miners and Commonwealth and State officials on Woodsreef. Certain facts were presented at that meeting. The bankers' interpretation of them was different from that of the miners. Certainly, one would not describe the outlook for Woodsreef as being particularly bright. The Commonwealth-State agreement has not yet been finalised, but I have asked the Department to hurry that process. There seems to be an increasing urgency that that should occur. 
The final Industries Assistance Commission report on asbestos has been received by the Government. When we give consideration to that report we will no doubt make a final decision as to what the Government's attitude to the future might be. With regard to Co-operative Farmers and Graziers, I cannot give the honourable gentleman any information additional to that which I gave him a few weeks ago. The matter is under scrutiny and the figure of $4.5m is correct; the involvement is there. These decisions are taken by the Government, based upon information given to it at the time of the requirements to assist. However, it is not the Government's policy to be involved in these sorts of assistance or guarantees unless they are believed to be overwhelmingly desirable in the national interest. 
There is obviously no appropriation by the Parliament with regard to the matter about which the honourable member has asked me. As he would well know - 
-As I hope the Parliament - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the Chair to add to an answer which I gave this morning at Question Time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
Pursuant to section 162 of the Superannuation Act 1976 I present the annual report of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust and the Commissioner for Superannuation 1976-77. 
Pursuant to subregulation 8A(2) of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) (Superannuation) Regulations I present the report by the Commissioner for Superannuation on the operations of the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Board and the Contract Officers (Papua New Guinea) Retirement Benefits Board 1 976. 
