-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has he seen the report in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  that the Industrial Court declined on procedural grounds to entertain an pplication by a journalist for an injunction under the Trade Practices Act to restrain Nationwide News Pty Ltd from engaging in misleading or deceptive conduct? In view of the immense practical difficulties experienced by individual citizens in exercising their rights under the Act without expensive legal costs, and in the light of his assertion this afternoon that he is willing to institute proceedings under the Act, will he ask for a report on newspaper companies which mislead the general public with bogus claims of exclusive stories, particularly disgraceful pieces on  Her  Royal Highness The Princess Margaret, or are the activities of the Murdoch empire, no matter how revolting and how distasteful, completely off limits to his Department? 
-Will the Attorney-General indicate to the House the approximate percentage of investigations carried out by his Department and the Commonwealth Police which are initiated by the AttorneyGeneral the first law officer- without prior advice and recommendation from his Department? Am I right in concluding that the Attorney-General initiated inquiries into the Labor Party's advertising agency without much prior advice and recommendation? Did he receive advice or recommendation from or consult with any person outside his Department before initiating the inquiries in question? 
I should like firstly to ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to convey my congratulations to the  Speaker  on his election and myself to congratulate the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. 
It is my great privilege to succeed the Honourable Frederick Michael Daly as the member for Grayndler.  Mr Daly  was in his thirty-third year of service in this House when Parliament was dissolved last year. He was first elected for the seat of Martin in 1943, at what was then regarded as the very young age for a parliamentarian of thirty. In 1949 he was elected to the newly created seat of Grayndler which he represented thereafter with very great distinction until his retirement. He was the Father of the House. 
Single handedly almost,  Mr Daly  popularised the broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings.  His  quick wit and the sting of his speeches assured the pre-eminence of this House in the Parliament, at least in radio audience ratings. This modest man, born in a quiet country hamlet called Currabubula, derived the greatest satisfaction from his career in this Parliament from his service in the Whitlam Government.  Mr Daly  was a magnificent Leader of the House. Charged with managing a great program of legislative reform and faced with a recalcitrant and truculent Opposition, he never flinched from the demanding schedules of his task. Yet  Mr Daly  maintained his unfailing courtesy and, despite extreme provocation, never stifled the freest discussion in this House. The Liberal Party of Australia so admired  Mr Daly  that during the recent election it placed large printed advertisements lauding his popularity, an extraordinary if truly touching gesture. In his portfolio of Services and Property,  Mr Daly  fought hard for the reform of Australia's electoral laws so as to ensure, as much as anything else, that every citizen might exercise his right and duty of voting without undue difficulty. He did not succeed. The conservative coalition in the Senate frustrated these attempts to bolster the basis of parliamentary democracy in this country. 
In any event, after 6 years on the Government back benches during the Curtin and Chifley Governments, and after 23 long and frustrating years in Opposition,  Mr Daly  became a Minister. All the sacrifices of those years must have seemed worthwhile at the end of 1972. He had played the parliamentary game by the rules for 29 years. He knew them well. The men he had watched on the opposite side of this chamber knew those rules too.  Mr Daly  expected his opponents to observe the rules, now that they were in Opposition. 
He was soon to be disabused of that notion. The unprincipled Opposition in the Senate did not wait long. The Government determined to go to the people in 1974 before its term had expired. Labor was returned again. Still the conservative coalition parties would not play by the rules. Amazing fictions were invented, amongst them a gloss upon the principle of responsible government about reprehensible circumstances. On 1 1 November 1975 our opponents struck. In the words of  Mr Daly,  'they tore up the rule book'. That,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  must be the start of any considered response to the GovernorGeneral's Speech. The election of 13 December 1975 may have given the conservative coalition parties government, but the events of 1 1 November 1975 in which they participated and which procured that election deny any sense of legitimacy to this new regime in our eyes. This Thirtieth Parliament is premature and no one in the Australian Labor Party will ever let this new regime forget it. Governments formed in this House, not Governors-General, are supposed to decide whether Parliaments will be dissolved before the House's term of 3 years has expired. 
The reasoning of the statement issued at Yarralumla on 1 1 November 1975 is quite specious. The suggestion that the so-called deadlock last year between this House and the Senate on the issue of Supply necessitated 'the dissolution of the Parliament and an election for both Houses' is wrong. Reliance on section 57 of the Constitution to dissolve both Houses was possible only because of the Senate's treatment of proposed laws other than the Appropriation Bills.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will not press you. Regrettably the rules of debate relating to the conduct of the Queen's representative and standing order 74 preclude my stating the conclusion. 
Members of the conservative coalition parties cannot have it both ways. They cannot state that the results of the election on 13 December 1975, which should never have been held, determine the propriety of the actions of 1 1 November 1975 and at the same time come in here, one after the other, spouting the most fantastically bad law and political theory in supposed justification and amplification of the GovernorGeneral's statement and of the Chief Justice's letter. Honourable members opposite will have to examine their consciences to determine how much and for what reasons they have had to modify over the past couple of years their previous understanding of accepted constitutional practice in Australia. 
No member of the conservative coalition parties should think by my remarks on this question that I am engaging in some kind of ritual. It is not only my colleagues on this side of the House who were members of the Twenty-ninth Parliament and their defeated comrades who resent the dismissal of the Labor Government, every one of us in the Labor movement and every one of the electors who voted for us in times of great economic distress feels an immense rage and despair at the Tories' fiddling with a parliamentary system that we as democratic socialists held dear and believed could provide a vehicle for social reform. Some honourable members opposite must realise this and understand how our attitude to their regime's legitimacy will affect their ability to govern. 
In these circumstances I cannot understand how the new Administration can pretend that the election results solved a problem. It will not just disappear. If Labor is returned to government in 1978 the problem will almost certainly occur again. Why must the conservative parties test the fabric of our already battered parliamentary system so? Constitutional amendment is an urgent necessity in Australia so that unwritten conventions are spelt out and dubious discretions removed from our Constitution. I invite the attention of honourable members to the quite frightening ramifications of section 58 of the Constitution. For the time being, then, the Constitution of our country remains a tyrant's charter. The amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  addresses this deficiency in the Governor-General's speech and is deserving of the support of this House. 
Turning from the ignoble genesis of the elections that confirmed this imposed Administration in power and which gave it a majority in this House, I should like to look at the vision which inspires its Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Ministers. This is not an easy task, but it is one which must be undertaken so that I am able to discern the likely impact of the new regime on my constituents in Grayndler. It might be timely to remind honourable members that this is the reason why Parliament is supposed to exist- the representation of people, human beings and their needs. To hear the detailed topographical descriptions of their electorates in which certain honourable members indulge, one might be forgiven for thinking they were here to represent majestic mountain peaks or babbling brooks, or even sheep and goats. 
Grayndler is small in area; the needs of its residents are not. Its residents comprise old people and young people, women in employment and women who work at home, people who were born here and people came to this country to build a new life, men and women who are employed pursuing courses to improve their skills and persons on the dole desperately seeking employment- all these people look to the Government to create an environment for greater opportunity and fulfilment. They are prepared to make sacrifices themselves for their children's sake. They always have. But there must be a future. Cuts in real living standards now in order to contain inflation and promote employment can only be traded off against firm commitments to a greater future for all, young and old, in housing, education, health, job satisfaction and creative leisure. The Hayden Budget contained those guarantees and was based on those assumptions. 
What does the Governor-General's Speech hold for most of my constituents? Cutting through the cliches with which Ministers daily regale us here at question time about excessive government expenditure, excessive government intervention and the like, one sees that the new Administration has examined 'all expenditures in terms of their priorities'. The Government's priorities are there for everyone to see. They include the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty, the removal of meat export charges, the forgoing of massive amounts of taxation revenue involved in the granting of an investment allowance of extremely dubious economic value, and finally and pathetically the reintroduction of school cadet corps for reasons totally unrelated to defence requirements. 
One does not have to look very far to see the immediate recipients of the new Administration's generosity. Still, what of the rest of us? What comes after the achievement of economic stability. The Governor-General's Speech promises the poor and the disadvantaged 'adequate opportunities'. For the time being, however, there will be massive cuts in the childhood service program, discontinuation of vital migrant services, though some will be hastily revived for a while, a softening in the commitment to the real value of pensions, prevarication about the delivery of effective legal aid and obfuscation leading to the dismantling of the health care program. Not many persons in Grayndler will be exercising their new rights granted by this Government to own gold, but they will be adversely affected by those cuts in expenditure and the new directions of this regime. 
In the Governor-General's Speech mention is made of the critical importance of voluntary welfare organisations. One can have no quarrel with that sentiment. But it may just contain the kernel of the Prime Minister's political strategy and of his attitude towards the disadvantaged in the community. The Prime Minister is an avowed admirer of a fairly well known Russian-born writer, Ayn Rand. Certain colleagues of mine on the Opposition side of the House have remarked upon this from time to time and accused him of pursuing her philosophy. While one cannot doubt the likelihood of the Prime Minister having a warm regard for someone who authors a work entitled  The Virtue of Selfishness,  I think it dignifies Miss Rand's writings to call them a philosophy. 
There is a group in the Australian community which is dedicated to attempting to structure a political program based on the principles of selfishness and egomania extolled by Ayn Rand. That is the so-called Workers Party. The views expounded by spokesmen for this group bear examination. They are quite open about their declared policy of phasing out all government welfare schemes. The Workers Party places large advertisements in newspapers which are directed towards a market of high income earners. Those advertisements tersely state its objective and urge support for what it calls voluntaryism and private welfare. The sentiments expressed attract great support in the salons frequented by the wealthy backers of the Liberal Party. 
The Workers Party is the handmaiden of the Liberal Party, though not of the Country Party whose members have never seriously urged a pure free enterprise economy. The so-called right to property is central to the program of the Workers Party and its supporters characterise the rights of Australian citizens to education, health care and equal opportunity as privileges. They say that in no circumstances must one man's need take precedence over what they characterise very narrowly as another's rights. 
Like the Government, its spokesmen attack the middle income groups as the main recipients of welfare benefits, the bureaucrats and welfare workers. Compare the similar deprecation of the 
Prime Minister in his speech in this debate on 26 February. Creatively interpreting the Henderson report, he said: 
The report of the Inquiry into Poverty conducted by Professor Henderson drew attention to the fact that very large sums are being spent by governments on the pretext that they are helping poor people when, in fact, the great bulk of the money goes to the middle class and poor people get little. 
The Workers Party spokesmen are more frank than the Government in their attitude to the recipients of welfare. They, too, talk about persons being encouraged to remain dependent in language that is scattered recklessly throughout the Governor-General's Speech and the Prime Minister's speech in this debate. But they go on to talk about the 'pain function' and the value of the hard lesson, which expressions are still too blunt to be used by the Government in public. Nonetheless, in the narrow and somewhat atypical area of work tests for unemployment benefit recipients, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  thought it important to profile 70 per cent of such persons as unmarried, two-fifths as under 2 1 and threequarters as being in receipt of benefit for more than one month. The inference is that the unemployed must be out of work through their own fault. Choosing a single unfortunate group, it is sought to characterise all disadvantaged as bludgers and somehow unworthy of assistance. 
Politicians, too, are identified by the Workers Party as persons having a vested interest in a burgeoning and inefficient welfare system. It is argued that new and elaborate welfare systems buy popularity and votes. Here the Workers Party people are clearly wrong. I suspect that the Prime Minister perceives as much. 
There may well be an electoral backlash against public servants, social workers and social welfare which is not wholly unjustified, but it extends also to the more vulnerable people who depend on welfare to survive, and that is wholly unjustified. It is not inconceivable that cuts in welfare spending could become extremely popular. The reason is that the lower paid who work for a living can often be as badly off as the sick, the unemployed or the old and yet they contribute to the public funds from which benefits are paid. A lot of poor, hard-working people resent the assistance provided by government to the disadvantaged. People fear inflation, as the Prime Minister knows to his great electoral advantage. That is how he gained his blank cheque mandate. 
There will always be in the foreseeable future more people in employment than unemployed. There will always be fewer retired persons than persons who are not yet of retiring age. There will always be large numbers of migrants who do not yet have the vote and who are not yet citizens. To set these communities against one another and to set out cynically on an electoral strategy to destroy the welfare system because of short term political ends is an ignoble purpose. 
There should be arguments in this House about the effective delivery of welfare services. My colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  alluded to this problem in his address in this debate. He talked of the different views on providing welfare- whether it should be a universal or a selective basis. We can argue about this productively in this House during this session, but let us not debauch the debate. Let us have no more of this schoolboy rhetoric about people wanting to work hard and the kind of language which is strewn throughout the Governor-General's Speech and the Prime Minister's contribution to this debate. The suggestion that if people are unemployed it is because they do not want to work is nonsense, and every honourable member here ought to know that if he does his work properly in his constituency. 
But the wheel will turn full circle. The ignoble genesis of this Government will come back to haunt it. My pleas will undoubtedly fall on deaf ears and in 3 years honourable members opposite will be dragged from the government benches. They will disappear. But in the meantime I urge those honourable members opposite who are going to go not to debauch this debate, to think of it seriously, not to seek narrow electoral advantage and to try to ensure that the disadvantaged in this country have much more than adequate opportunities. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I call the honourable member for Higgins. I remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. I ask that he be extended the usual courtesies. 
-My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Has the honourable gentleman seen reports of the very serious differences in the views of the Commissioner of Corporate Affairs in Victoria and the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales on tax effect accounting for losses? Is this another example of the absurd variations in the States' company laws and their administration which bedevil the Australian business community? Will he have discussions with officers of his Department about the ways in which the constitutional powers of this Parliament relating to corporations can be used to establish standard accounting procedures throughout Australia so as to restore the confidence of investors for which the Government constantly professes such concern? 
The chart tabled this evening by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  will show a magnificent record by the last Labour Government. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  have spoken in fairly non-partisan terms this evening about the way in which we should address matters relating to social services and repatriation. I subscribe to the view, as I am sure all pensioner organisations do, that to the maximum extent possible, we ought to strive to take pensions away from the sort of bidding up that used to go on in years past. We can argue about whether the automatic adjustment should be in association with the consumer price index or average weekly earnings. But that kind of adjustment would be a very welcome institutionalising in the field of pensions. 
I think it is important that honourable members should address themselves very carefully to the wording of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  When they look at it, they will see that in fact the adjustment which has been carried out automatically at least on the past 3 occasions is not taking place this time. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  in his second reading speech, maintained that the amending Bill will increase the pension and benefit rates in accordance with the movements in the consumer price index. I submit that the Government has not done this precisely because it has not addressed itself to an integral part of the pension rates. 
If honourable members look at the previous legislation on the last 3 occasions, they will see that the section which is amended- section 28- that sets out the rates of pension, has also gone on to deal with the question of the additional pension benefit for children. The Act makes it quite clear that that is designed to be an integral part of the pension. It talks about the maximum rate of pension being increased. On this occasion we have not got that increase. On this occasion it may not be a substantial amount. It would, however, I submit, at least be about 50c a child. When we are talking about these sums in family budgets, that amount of money can be substantial. But what is important is that for the first time the Government is moving away from an important principle which is that this is a part of the pension rate. 
The genesis of this additional pension benefit for children is quite interesting. It also has its origins in 1943 as does another provision which is the subj ect of this Bill which I shall come to later. It was introduced on the recommendation of a joint committee on social security chaired by a predecessor of the Minister for Repatriation as the member for Bass. 
I realise that in a Liberal-National Country Party Government, social welfare does not always enjoy the highest priorities. However, I know that the Minister for Repatriation brings great personal qualities and an appropriate professional background to his portfolio. I urge that in looking at this question, he reconsider and give very serious consideration to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley. It will, I submit make sure that this part of the pension remains subject to automatic adjustment in addition to the basic rate stipulated earlier in section 28 of the Act. The honourable member for Prospect gave some of the figures. I think that they bear repeating. We are not talking about just a few thousand persons who are affected by this refusal to adjust the benefit. At 30 June 1975 more than 130 000 pensioners and more than a quarter of a million children would have been the object of this benefit. So it is a substantial benefit. It is one that the Government ought to reconsider. The amendment seeks to redress that deficiency and it is worthy of support. 
I turn to some other provisions of the Bill. The honourable member for Prospect also foreshadowed the Opposition's intention to oppose clause 7 which seeks to repeal Part IVa of the Act dealing with the funeral benefit. This provision was originally introduced in 1943. It was designed quite simply to give pensioners peace of mind. I do not suppose that the amounts involved really achieve that objective. The benefits of $20 and $40 do not go very far to meeting the cost of a funeral these days. But I think it bodes ill for pensioners when existing benefits are to be removed on such scanty grounds as those outlined in the Minister's second reading speech. We are told that the total saving will be $ 1.7m, that the decision has been taken as part of the Government's review of spending programs and that it is part of its endeavour to reduce administrative costs in government expenditure. But it is a piddling amount. The pensioners can see where the priorities of this Government he. In a throwaway line in justifying the rationale for doing away with this benefit the Minister states: 
I might also point out that some 25 per cent of age pensioners are single and own their own homes. On the death of such pensioners, their estates would generally be sufficient to cover the funeral costs. 
What of the 75 per cent of pensioners who are not in that position? Has there been any inquiry into their position? In the other throw-away line the Minister stated: 
In addition the $20 funeral benefit is often paid to people who are not pensioners and who may not be m need of this assistance. 
Often they may not. Why do we not bother to find out? Why does not the Government find out before it does away with the existing benefit that obviously is of benefit to some people? 
The differentiation in rates was introduced in 196S by a government of the same complexion as the present Government. Presumably then there was thought to be some justification for higher payment to persons in different circumstances. The pensioners affected are, in any event, only those who satisfy the means test for fringe benefits. Half a decade after that differentiation in rates was introduced the Government at any time could have bothered to find out what people were benefiting. It has not done so. Supporters of the Government come into this place and in justification for repealing an important part of the Act which provides a benefit for pensioners they say that something 'often' is paid to someone and it 'may ' not be useful to others. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Hotham refer to a passage in the Minister's second reading speech about the Government proceeding with a review of income security. The honourable member was able to flesh that out a little for me when he said that a new government committee was being appointed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I am fairly diligent in reading documents that issue from all Ministers. But I have not seen a statement in respect of such a committee being appointed. If this committee is to deliberate in private, that is deplorable. This Government has spent a good part of its time in government deprecating the efforts of committees that have held very valuable discussions in public. These committees have received submissions in public and arguments have been presented to them in public. It would be absolutely deplorable if a committee formed to consider the very important question of income security review were to meet in private. 
I will not take up the time of the House further. I think that honourable members opposite should address themselves to this question. They should at least frankly acknowledge that on this occasion they have not adjusted the rates in the way that they have been adjusted in the past. In the past it has been automatic; this time it is not. The amendment seeks to redress that deficiency. It talks about an important element that is now being left out of the legislation. If the proposed legislation is allowed to pass, the principle of automatic adjustment, which many honourable members on both sides of the House think is deserving of bipartisan and even tripartisan support, will be destroyed. So at this stage can we at least redress that anomaly? 
We will be dealing with the funeral benefit later in the debate. At that time we can repeat the call that the Government should at least explain why it is seeking to save this piddling amount of $1.7m. I commend the amendment to the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will have noted that as a result of a High Court decision last October Victorian and Queensland milk producers have an unrestricted right to sell cut price milk and milk products in New South Wales and that the Norco Co-operative Ltd, the 
Bega and Co-operative Society Ltd, the Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co. Ltd and others have threatened to pull out of equalisation when it expires on 30 June. How does the Minister react to the open threats by the Victorian Minister for Agriculture that Victorian producers will forcibly invade interstate liquid milk markets unless they are given a fair share of the market? Can the Minister assure this House and the people of New South Wales that he will not allow stability in the New South Wales milk market to be eroded by interstate rivalry and cut price marketing tactics? 
I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  when he responds to confirm my understanding of his reply in the second reading debate that he will take up with the Trade Practices Commission the question of its views on the adequacy of its rights of intervention under proposed new section 163a which is to be inserted in the principal Act by means of clause 1 5 of this Bill. 
Yesterday the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  gave notice that the Opposition proposes throughout the life of this Parliament to defend most vigorously the basic principles embodied in the Trade Practices Act. Any fiddling with that Act or its administration by this conservative Government must be regarded with grave suspicion. The record of inaction of successive Liberal-Country Party governments throughout the 1950s and the 1960s, combined with the hostility of those parties and of their supporters to the principles of the legislation introduced by the Labor Government in 1973 and 1974, makes such caution essential. The Government has fiddled with the administration of the Trade Practices Act. 
The Bill before the House amends the Act to reflect the curious administrative arrangements of this Government. Responsibility for the administration of the Act now rests with a department of conflicting interests, officially known as the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. There can be no doubt that this arrangement is misconceived and inimical to the interests of the public as a whole. In his second reading speech in this debate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  argued that his portfolio was created 'so that business regulation by the Federal Government could be co-ordinated and administered with a practical orientation'. The fact is, of course, that his Department has no such responsibility. With the exception of sections 62 and 63 dealing with product safety and information standards, Part X dealing with overseas cargo shipping, and section 172 dealing with exemption of primary product marketing organisations, the Trade Practices Act does not provide at all for regulation in the strict sense by the Government. 
The stale rhetoric about excessive government regulation of business may go over well in the boardroom pitches by the Liberal-Country Party bagmen, but at least in the area of trade practices and consumer protection it is patently nonsense. Parliament, not the Government, has made the new rules, and they are set out in the provisions of the Trade Practices Act itself. Ultimately, of course, the regulation of business under the Act takes place in the courts. 
However, the Trade Practices Act does require firm, unrelenting and evenhanded enforcement for its effectiveness. True, the Act created important new rights for citizens and corporations, but their practical importance is somewhat limited by traditional judicial views on the availability of discretionary remedies and by cost. The Attorney-General and a new independent agency, the Trade Practices Commission, were to share the main responsibility for the Act's enforcement. The Government has now changed that. 
Firstly, the Government has removed the Act from the administration of the AttorneyGeneral. That is a retrograde step. The kind of proceedings contemplated by the Act make it particularly appropriate for the administration of the first law officer of Australia. The honourable member for Port Adelaide made that point strongly yesterday. The nature of the discretions available to the Minister administering the Trade Practices Act also emphasises the desirability of the Act being administered by a Minister in one of the great departments of state with a strong tradition of independence, such as the Attorney-General. It is well worth remarking that in the early 1960s  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in his then overtly political and partisan days, proposed that his rather weak trade practices legislation be administered by the AttorneyGeneral. As you would need no reminding,  Mr Speaker,  indeed his Liberal and National Country Party successors as Attorney-General did get custody of his weak and sickly legislative offspring. 
The consequence of handing over the administration of the Trade Practices Act to the Minister of a department with conflicting policy interests is gradually becoming apparent. In the adjournment debate earlier this month on 8 April the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  raised the question of a blatant breach of one of the Act's consumer protection provisions by the Consolidated Press organisation, publishers of the  Bulletin.  The business house and the magazine need no introduction to honourable members. They are both well known, particularly the magazine, for their overwhelmingly anti-Labor stance. The Trade Practices Commission investigated the breach and recommended a prosecution. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs declined to consent. 
The Minister sought to justify his decision by drawing attention to his discretion under section 163 of the Trade Practices Act to determine whether or not he should consent to a prosecution. The Minister further said that the discretion had to be exercised 'both in a policy context and in a legal context'. The existence of the discretion is undoubted, but the reference to the policy context somewhat puzzling. After all, to what policy context is the Minister referring? Is it the consumer protection policy, the only one that seems relevant, or policy relating to one of the myriad other fields for which his Department is supposed to be responsible? The Minister himself is not very helpful, refusing as he did, in a very sensitive case involving a business organisation sympathetic to his Party, to indicate the kind of considerations that weighed with him in the exercise of his discretion. 
The Minister's constant reference to the availability of the discretion under section 163 does not dispose of the matter. Honourable members will be interested to know that the Trade Practices Commission has been most concerned about the question of consumer protection prosecutions. The Commission has no quarrel with the provision being used to prevent capricious prosecutions by persons who are not responsible officials. However, in its first annual report, the Commission drew attention to the mechanism provided in section 163 whereby another person might be authorised to consent to such prosecutions. The Commission went on to suggest that its  Chairman  be so authorised. 
Public confidence in the independent administration of our consumer protection laws might be restored if the Minister were to act on the Commission's suggestion. The Minister would not then be placed in the invidious position of having constantly to defend, in this House or elsewhere, his bona fides in relation to policy considerations that he is unwilling to canvass. At least by strengthening the potential for responsible independent operation by the Trade Practices Commission, the Government and the Minister would go some way towards removing consumer disquiet arising from the hopelessly compromised diverse interests of the Minister's portfolio. 
The Government is also fiddling with the enforcement of the Trade Practices Act in some discrete ways. The honourable member for Port Adelaide referred yesterday to the emasculation of the Trade Practices Commission that continues apace. The activities of the Commission are being curtailed as part of the Government's phoney cost-cutting measures. The effectiveness of the Commission is being undermined by the restrictions thereby necessitated. The Government realises that. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would like nothing more than to point to the ineffectiveness of the Commission as justification for its abolition. The Opposition realises that. Consumers and small business will suffer if the provisions of the Trade Practices Act are allowed to stand unaltered but enforcement of its provisions discontinued. The sinister strategy of the Government, revealed elsewhere, is also to be relied on in the area of competition policy and consumer protection- starve and discredit. 
There is no greater fiction put about by this Government today than the barely veiled suggestion that the Trade Practices Commission is in some way interfering with business efficiency or economic recovery. The Minister at the table, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, and perhaps more predictably the Prime Minister, instance constantly the failing firm denied the employment-saving merger by a Commission concerned with economic theory. 
No single instance has ever been documented. In this debate the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  has also spoken unconvincingly of conflict between the Trade Practices Commission and the Industries Assistance Commission. No doubt the potential does exist in theory for conflict, but again no single instance has been or can be given of such conflict occurring and affecting business efficiency or economic recovery. 
These red herrings are reminiscent of the phoney arguments raised against the Trade Practices Act by the Liberal and National Country Parties and their Press stooges during 1973 and 1974. No doubt it suits the conservatives to muddy the waters. Competition law can be a difficult subject. It may be easy for unscrupulous commentators to misrepresent a dedicated public body, the Trade Practices Commission, as a mere band of theoreticians whose policing of business has no direct public benefit. That is why this phoney campaign continues. The Government's privileged backers are concerned that the Trade Practices Commission is becoming effective, not only in the area of trade practices to the immediate benefit of small business, but most importantly in the area of consumer protection. 
That is why the Government has appointed its review committee to conduct a review for which there was no public demand. Honourable members might note that the Government has flagged for the Committee's special attention 2 practices -mergers and price discrimination. Significantly, those are 2 areas in which the Trade Practices Act is just beginning to work. 
The Opposition is not opposing the second reading of this Bill. That will be clear from the remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. The Opposition is aware that the Bill is basically a tidying up measure. The only amendment of any real importance is the insertion in the Trade Practices Act of the proposed new section 163a dealing with the jurisdiction of the Industrial Court to make declarations and orders. As the Minister conceded in his second reading speech, the former Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  had proposed last year to fill this gap in the powers of the Industrial Court to make declaratory judgments. 
I should like to look very briefly at this new provision and at the conduct of proceedings thereunder before the Industrial Court. The Minister did not mention in his speech, but the explanatory memorandum circulated by him does refer to. the limited right of intervention of the 
Trade Practices Commission in such proceedings.. Proposed new sub-section 163a (3) will only give the Commission the right to intervene in matters that have been or could have been the subject of an application for clearance under the Act. The intervention of the Commission in that restricted class of proceedings is obviously desirable and will be of great assistance to the Court. But what of proceedings under the proposed new section 163a relating to practices for which clearance is not available, such as monopolisation, exclusive dealing under subsections 47 (3) and 47 (4) resale price maintenance and price discrimination? No doubt it is always open to the Trade Practices Commission to institute proceedings under section 77 and section 80 of the Act, but that does seem clumsy. When a person is seeking to exercise his new right under proposed section 163a, perhaps to clear up a grey area the subject of discussion with the Commission, I do not see why the Commission should not be able to intervene as of right. After all, the Commission, not the Minister, has the resources and intelligence about market definition and the like which are central not only to the consideration of clearance applications but the existence of many types of prohibited conduct. Similar comments would apply, of course, to the Commission's right to intervene in proceedings relating to prerogative writs under paragraph 1 (b) of proposed new section 163a. If the Trade Practices Commission does feel disadvantaged in its enforcement of the Act as a result of this limited right of intervention I urge its members to speak up. That said,  Mr Speaker,  I do welcome this new provision. The opportunity to seek a declaration will give business organisations the opportunity to clarify questions raised in investigations by the Commission and its staff. That seems to me to be a much more satisfactory way of resolving doubts in the minds of ethical business firms than to comply less than wholeheartedly with the Commission's view of their practice. 
The other provisions of the Bill are innocuous enough. I was, however, amused at the suggestion of the honourable member for Casey that the clarification of the Government's right to make submissions to the Trade Practices Commission and the Trade Practices Tribunal on public benefit in authorisation applications and appeals represented a great advance for the consumers. Perhaps he can be excused when the Minister himself referred, in his second reading speech, to the Government now being able to make 'public interest' submissions. That is not the position. 
The Opposition is not opposing the Bill. It contains some welcome tidying up provisions. The main effects, hopefully, will be to improve businesses' dealings with the Commission and the Opposition supports it. The Opposition, however, will remain vigilant to see that the Commission is not starved of funds by this Government and that this Government, through the back door by means of committee recommendations, does not seek to emasculate the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security seen reports that the Department of Social Security is enforcing more stringently the requirement that supporting mothers seek maintenance from the fathers of their offspring before receiving a supporting mother's benefit? Does this not mean that the Family Law Courts will be required to set higher maintenance orders, with a resultant increase in both defaults and the costs to supporting mothers of enforcing maintenance orders? Does it also mean that supporting mothers will lose benefits crucial to their personal autonomy? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association has given notice that its members will not provide treatment under Medibank in Canberra hospitals to patients who have not passed a means test for free treatment? If that is the case, what action will the Government take to overcome unilateral action by some Canberra doctors to limit the freedom of choice of patients in Canberra and to deprive patients of their rights under Medibank? 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said, the Opposition is not opposed to the principles of the Customs Amendment Bill, that is, to a change in the basis of the valuing of goods for customs purposes. We recognise that there are difficulties with the present system and that there may be loopholes which will be plugged by this Bill. But that does not mean we are content to let legislation pass without comment. 
It seems to me that in this Bill we are missing the precise and elegant wording, the meticulous attention to detail that we have come to expect from the First Parliamentary Counsel. I remind the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  that in the very first customs case that came before the High Court- Murray and Company v Collector of Customs (1903), 1 Commonwealth Law Reports, page 25- Chief Justice Griffiths set out at page 36 the criteria for a customs measure. He said: 
In construing them,-  that is, customs measuresit  is not unimportant to remember that this is a provision relating to the tariff, and it is common knowledge that tariffs have serious effects on trade. It is important that persons engaged in the trade should know the  existing  law, and it is said to be important that they should also know what the law is likely to be in the near future. At any rate it is important that they should be able to know by reading the statute what the law is upon any particular point. 
But in this important legislation, which will form the basis of our international trade for many years to come, those canons of construction seem to have been ignored. We find that there will be a schedule to the Act- a schedule containing the convention. That convention will be modified in ways set out in paragraphs (a) to (g) of the proposed new sub-section 154 (3), whilst over it all, like pepper and salt, is the wording of paragraph (h) of that sub-section putting a proviso on the word 'freight' whenever it appears. Nowhere is there a way of looking at the convention as amended. Nowhere is there a sign of the protocol which leads to paragraph (d) of sub-section 1 54 (3). Of course, the Minister may have had in mind the consequences of departing from a draft convention as exemplified in the Ellerman Lines case. How much simpler it would have been to remove from the Customs Act the existing provisions of section 154 and replace them with the words which put the convention into effect. How much simpler it would have been to leave section 155 in its present form instead of trying to insert wording about inland freight in Canada in any place where it might conceivably fit. If I can take the Minister at the table back to his law school days, he will remember the words in the case of Dean v Green, 1882, volume 8, Probate Division, page 79. The words of Lord Penzance, reported at page 89, state that it would be contrary to the recognised principles upon which courts of law construe Acts of Parliament to enlarge the conditions of the enactment and thereby restrain its operation by any reference to the words of a mere form given for convenience's sake in a schedule. The Minister will also recall the further rule, admittedly applying only to private Acts of 
Parliament, that the words in a schedule cannot be construed to enlarge the words in the Act. All of the notes in Pan II of the schedule in this Bill could have been inserted as interpretive clauses if necessary, but there is a larger issue. The Minister will recall the case of Salomons v Commissioners for Customs and Excise, 1967, Volume 2, Queen's Bench Reports, page 116, in which a gentleman who had imported a polaroid camera into Britain had its value assessed under the convention we are now adopting and took the issue right through to the Court of Appeal. The Minister will remember that the case turned on the question of which market was to be considered in setting the market price. It is true that to make for certainty our courts follow the Court of Appeal in commercial matters. But when the law has been expounded as it was in Salomons' case and the meaning of the words determined, why can it not be included in the definition clauses of a Bill such as this? In fact, if I read paragraphs 2.41 and 3.16 of the Australian Customs Valuations booklet correctly, I am doubtful whether the decisions of the court are being followed. The Minister will soon have to explain how section 152 of the Customs Act fits in with the proposition in paragraph 2.41 of that booklet. 
Salomons' case raises another issue. It was said that for the valuation of non-commercial goods the British customs had an entirely different system, one carried out by administrative action. Reading paragraph 2.43 of the valuation booklet it appears that there is also a similar system operating in Australia. It may be that simpler methods are needed to value noncommercial shipments, but if that is so it should be included in the legislation. Last year more than 800 000 Australians went abroad as tourists. Most tourists bring something back to Australia. Are all their souvenirs and mementos, their tape recorders and radios, to be valued by a method which differs from this legislation which is solemnly put before us as the method of valuing goods imported into Australia? 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been putting to the House the proposition that when we undertake to adopt an international convention and then pass domestic legislation to do so it is all very well to place the convention in the legislation as a schedule, but it is just as important that the enacting legislation which puts the convention into effect should be clear to all those who have to deal with it. This Bill does not do that. It gives us an enormous piece of legislation by reference. I doubt whether the Minister himself can tell us just what part of the convention is affected by the proviso about inland Canadian freight. 
The next point I want to take up with the Minister is the question of the placing of this legislation in the Customs Act at all. I am well aware of the provisions of section 55 of the Constitution. Before the Customs Tariff 1965 was introduced the tariff was no more than a schedule with some prefatory notes. But since that date it has been expanded. Section 7 provides the method by which the value of parts shall be defined. Section 8 defines how the f.o.b. price is determined- something closely akin to what we are now enacting. Section 3 1 defines the landed price. Why is it that if the value of a part is defined in one Act the value of the whole must be defined in another? Why, if the Minister is correct in his second reading speech when he says that paragraph (d) modifies the definition in the schedule to provide that imported goods be valued on an f.o.b. basis, is this being put in one Act when the power to define the f.o.b. price is in another? 
What does this Bill mean when sub-section (2) of proposed section 154 states that this legislation will provide the basis for duty unless the tariff provides otherwise? I noticed that in the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill which this House passed a couple of weeks ago the title of the tariff had been changed. After 75 years of being one of the only 2 Acts of the Parliamentthe Excise Tariff is the other one- which did not have the word ' Act ' in its title, the Customs Tariff became the Customs Tariff Act. Presumably there was good reason for this. There must have been some discussions and the Minister will no doubt let us know those reasons as he will let us know just what the rules are that divide valuation provisions between the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff Act. 
I now turn to the articles themselves. Article II sets out in broad terms the proposition that relationships between companies should be taken into account. It refers to a commercial, financial or other relationship, whether by contract or otherwise, between the seller or any person associated in business with him and the buyer or any person associated in business with him. How fortunate for the drafters of this convention that paragraph (2) of article II is able to define when persons are associated in business. Of course it is all right in a convention but when it comes to domestic legislation we need to be clear what we are talking about. 
I am glad that honourable members are interjecting. I know of their concern that this legislation should be able to be used by people concerned with the importation of goods to Australia. It has a very real effect on the cost of business and business recovery about which they talk so much. I am delighted to see that they are so interested. Reverting to this question of business association, the Attorneys-General of every State and the Commonwealth have discussed this matter. The companies legislation in each State and Territory goes to great lengths to define whether persons are directly or indirectly associated. Our own federal foreign investment legislation contains the same provisions. But in this case the corporate veil has been lifted in the widest words. It seems to me that we are merely asking for a court to cut down the words to an extent where they will make sense. I read in paragraph 3.41 of the valuation booklet, which seems to me to be the only source of information about what the legislation is intended to do but reads more like what the customs branch will do regardless, that the onus will be on the importer to show that his purchase was not influenced by such an association. And let him look to his list of shareholders, for an importer may find that he has associations, direct or indirect, which he has never even suspected. If he manages to make a good deal in his trading he will be suspect. 
Next, I should like to turn to Article III. It looks all right on its face but note 2 gives me some concern. Harking back to the same valuation booklet, I found that paragraphs 3.44 to 3.50 inclusive all take into account actions which will occur in Australia after the goods have left the control of the customs branch. I anticipate that those provisions will involve a great deal of litigation and I can do no more than warn the Minister of what 6 Justices of the High Court of Australia said in the petrol rationing case, Wagner v. Gall, 79 Commonwealth Law Reports, at page 92. 
They state: 
The power to control imports into Australia which is conferred by the power to make laws with respect to trade and commerce with other countries and the power with respect to taxation do not enable the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws with respect to the use or consumption of goods simply because they are imported goods or because they have been subject to customs taxation. 
The 6 Justices of the High Court wrote those words. They are aware of the importance of this legislation. If the Minister who interjected cannot understand what I am saying he should read it in 

 Hansard The 20 minutes I have to speak will not permit me to go any more slowly or to go over the point again for him. Finally, I turn to what the valuation booklet calls 'the recommendation of 1 1 June 1969', always quoted in inverted commas, always referred to with great reverence. The recommendations sets out rules which appear at appendix 15 of the booklet which seem to have taken on the authority of law. If they are so important, if they are so basic, they should be in the legislation before this House. At the very least the Minister should be able to explain them to the House. 
My colleague from Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has raised the problems of administrative discretions which run wild without appeal. I think those discretions are added to by the way this legislation has been drafted. It seems to me that we are now in the position of letting ourselves breach the canons of taxation which Adam Smith, an authority not often quoted by socialists like myself on this side of the House, put forward so long ago in his work  The Wealth of Nations.  He wrote: 
The tax which each individual is bound to pay ought to be certain and not arbitrary. The time of payment, the manner of payment, the quantity to be paid ought all to be clear and plain to the contributor, and to every other person. Where it is otherwise, every person subject to the tax is put more or less in the power of the tax gatherer. 
Like my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide, I am looking to the Minister to give far more information to this House on the issues we have raised and to make suitable amendments which will take the power away from the tax gatherer and restore it to this House. 
I rise in this debate hopefully to lift the level somewhat. We have heard 3 contributions, one from the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  Having consulted the lunar calendar I am still not sure what he was talking about. It had something to do with a children's crusade. I assume that it was nothing to do with the child care program that this Government is axing so savagely. Tomorrow we will see the Government's Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  present a package which puts the program even further into reverse. We heard the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  for the first time rise in this chamber and talk about something almost serious. For the first minute of his allotted S minutes I thought he was talking about civil liberties, but he went on to identify a non-existent group; he went on the talk about the Croatian people. There are no persons in this country who carry passports bearing that nationality. They all show nationality as Yugoslavian or that they are persons who came from Yugoslavia and are Australian citizens. Introducing that kind of divisive element into this chamber is just the sort of thing I should expect from the honourable member for St George who has been sent here from those right wing elements in the ethnic communities in New South Wales. 
We heard next from the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  He talked about something that exercises the attention of every diligent member in this chamber in attending to his mail. 
It is an arduous task but it is one that we ought to exercise with more diligence than he has exercised. When he assigns to the waste basket- the round filing cabinet, as he calls it- the information given by people concerned about conditions in East Timor, he condemns not just easily identifiable Marxist groups who might be the people whom he can slang at easily; he condemns the Catholic Bishops of Australia who are terribly concerned about conditions in East Timor. The views put forward in this correspondence are exactly the same in sentiment as those being expressed by Bishop Gleeson of Adelaide at the moment. If honourable members opposite who are interjecting want to express a contrary view they will get an opportunity in a few moments to do so. 
How extraordinary it is that in this debate we have had 3 honourable members for the Government parties use the time of this chamber on such frivolous matters. Their contributions were a good swan song because they know what will happen tomorrow in the Parliament, which was called together in mid-February to deal with the affairs of this nation, to put right the terrible mess into which the nation had been allegedly placed by 3 years of Labor government and about which the Government has done nothing until now. It has put forward only one positive measure- the $30m give-away to the rural sector. That is the one positive measure that the Government has introduced in this period. We have had 3 months of fuddling. AH the Government's supporters, all the people who thought: 'Gee, anything better than the Labor Party ' have been so disillusioned. I refer not to  ('eminence gris.  I refer not to the Robert Christian Browns, the  Sir Robert  Creighton Browns; I refer not to those bad men. I refer to the decent honest Australians, the people who were mystified by the developments in world trade and by the contraction of the world economy which caught up with the Australian economy and which confuse the best minds in the whole world, none of which sits on the Government benches in this chamber. That confusion deceived these people and this Government has misled them. Tomorrow the Government will entertain this chamber with such diversions. Into this place tomorrow will come the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  with his package which will slash the hopes of Australians. He will slash Medibank, which the Government parties told the people they would maintain. This Government will slash their hopes and will do it for the meanest of objectives. Honourable members on the Government side will do it because they support a Prime Minister who has never worked for anybody in his life, who lives off inherited wealth, who has never rustled cattle in his life. 
-He has never been caught. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Honourable members opposite should think about it. In the United States of America context, federalism in that country only exists between independent States and the Federal Government of that country. Local government can never have any constitutional part to play in federalism. Let us talk about the proper inter-governmental relations in this country. Let us talk about them not in some structured ideology that devolves everything to the States- to the old colonies- which are, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said, the greatest centralist structures in this country. Every State in this country is ruled from a square mile. One will not find any devolution of power from the State capitals of Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and around the coast, to their hinterlands. One will not find anything in Sydney that makes the people of Murwillumbah feel that they have anything in common with the people of Albury. One finds a terrible centralism in every Australian State. 
But let us talk about the so-called federalism policy. What is it? The Government has put up only 2 speakers in this debate, and certainly the honourable member for Sturt did not tell us what it was. What is this magical percentage? The honourable member for Sturt said that an independent political authority requires independent fiscal authority. All right. Is it not then just as logical to give income taxing powers to local authorities as to offer to give them 2 per cent, 3 per cent, 4 per cent or 5 per cent of personal income tax? That is not giving them any independent fiscal authority so the Government should not make a pretence that it is doing so. What it is doing is removing their access to the Grants Commission, which operates on very different principles, and giving them a flat percentage of personal income tax. The Government will not say what it is but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has worked it out and, on the basis of the statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  the other day, it looks like  lh  per cent 
Let us see what this Fraser federalism means for local government in Australia. In a special supplement to the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday the journalist,  Mr Ian  Davis, talked about the Fraser federalism and what it might mean. He said: 
A figure of anywhere from 2 per cent to 5 per cent of income tax revenue has been tipped. 
The upper, more optimistic range would provide a significant assistance to local government; a figure at the lower end of the scale would almost certainly lead to a worsening of the present financial situation. 
In fact it has not been 2 per cent, it has been   Vi  per cent, and that will be significantly less than local government was receiving from Federal Government revenue sources during the past couple of years when the Labor Government was in power. 
We will get to the States again in a moment. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations talked about the new tax sharing arrangements providing for a fixed percentage of personal income tax going to local government. I hope that in his reply in this debate he will tell us exactly what that percentage is, because until he does we frankly do not know what we are talking about. We are talking in a void. This piece of legislation is premature. It is not a matter of throwing out the baby with the bath water; we are throwing out the baby and hanging on to the bath water. 
I am very glad that I will be followed in this debate by a member of the Country Party because I will be very interested to hear what he has to say about the approach of this Government to the so-called Fraser federalism. Again we can rely only on vague Press releases. No legislative proposals have come before this House or the other House. I will be interested to hear what he has to say about  per capita  grants and about the possibility of equalisation or topping up. Members of the Country Party will know that under the Grants Commission recommendations for financial assistance to local governments over the last couple of years, local authorities in rural areas have benefited very much from the recommendations which were adopted by the Labor Government. It meant not per capita grants at all. It meant that people living under local authorities in rural areas received the equivalent of about $3 for every $1 that was allocated  per capita  in the metropolitan areas. Under what we see now of the so-called new federalism that will disappear. 
We have heard a lot of talk in this debate from the Minister, from senators in the other place and from the honourable member for Sturt about bureaucracy. There would be no leaner bureaucracy having served this country well than the Grants Commission. It is an extremely lean bureaucracy. It has built up a body of expertise particularly, as I suspect members of the Government parties are concerned, in working with this principle of equalisation which it applies in relation to the applications from States for financial assistance and which over the last couple of years it has been able to refine in dealing with applications from local government bodies grouped together in regions. What the Government is proposing to do is to create a further bureaucracy - a further 6 bureaucracies- 6 State grants commissions which do not exist at the moment. One State has a grants commission, a part time body of no expertise. The Government is turning its back on the traditions of this country where we have had one Grants Commission for our nation which has assessed the needs of the States for special assistance and has, over the last couple of years, developed considerable expertise in processing applications from local government bodies grouped together in regions. 
One of the most laughable things in the Minister's second reading speech was the suggestion that artificial regional groupings had been formed under the Act of 1973. Any grouping, from a State to a local government body, is of its nature artificial. The groupings into which the Government will presumably insist that the States force their own bodies will be artificial in some way. There will simply be more of them. 
There will be more people- 6 times the numberto duplicate the work load that could be serviced here by our national Grants Commission. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe interjects that not all wisdom is in Canberra. I would have thought that the whole theme of the Grants Commission Act 1973 acknowledged that But what it sought to do was to give local Government, with its expanding responsibilities, access to the national revenue. Let us be in no doubt about that. What is happening now is that the Government parties are supporting a measure that will cut off access by local government bodies to that revenue. It will insist that local government bodies approach the Federal Government, if at all, through the States, through a level at which they have no vote at all. If honourable members read the Bill they will see that is what it says. . 
-The clause that deletes section 17. Let us look at the Bill. As the Minister said in his second reading speech- this is really comical: 
It also defines 'assistance to a State for local government purposes' in such a way as to comprehend the unincorporated areas in some States where local government-type services are provided by the State government. 
The Bill says nothing of the sort. If one looks at clause 8 one will see that the proposed new section 17 subsection (2) says that a reference to 'a grant of assistance to a State for local government . . . purposes shall mean purposes declared by the regulations'. Where are the regulations? Do we see them? Not at all. At least the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was more frank in his statement in February 1976 after the Premiers Conference when he said that he would ask the Grants Commission what local government purposes were. He has to go back to the body which honourable members opposite are reviling and which the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Bailleau)  says is not the font of all knowledge. Of course it is not the font of all knowledge but it is a body with considerable expertise in processing applications brought forward from local government. 
I am often amazed to hear people here talking of local government as the third level of government in this country. There are no first, second and third levels of government in this country just as there is no upper House. I defy honourable members to go to the Constitution and find that expression. Local government in this country is the primary form of government. It is the form of government at which most people have most contact. It is the area in which they know most of their aldermen or councillors. There are many more of them, and their doors are knocked on more often than are the doors of people in this chamber. Local government is what people see as the primary form of government. We on this side are concerned that local government should have access to the national revenue of this country and it should have access on an equal, fair basis. That is why we support a principle of equalisation which has been administered by the Grants Commission over the years in dealing with the States, and a principle which has been administered over the last couple of years in dealing with local government regions. It is a principle which the Government parties are not supporting here today. It is unfortunate and I am surprised that from the metropolitan area of Sydney, which I know best, we have no speakers listed. They are some of the areas in which local government authorities have benefited from this very principle. 
In his second reading speech the Minister seemed to be terribly concerned about assistance under the so-called Fraser federalism. We are delighted at every indication we get as to what it might mean, because it is not reflected in this piece of legislation. He said: 
Assistance to all local government authorities will be provided. No longer will some councils be excluded from sharing the moneys provided for local government purposes; . . . 
So it will be the same old principle of  per capita  grants across the board. To those who do not need it will be given more than they need and to those who do need more much less will be given. 
-Let me tell you what Councillor Thwaites, the  President  of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, said on 17 May and that is pretty recent. He said: 
There is also some disquiet in local government circles over the lack of definition so far in the new system as it concerns the proportions distributed between 'per capita' and 'needs' classifications in the total assistance program. Clearly, if per capita assistance is concentrated on at the expense of needs assistance, the rich councils will get richer and the poor poorer, and the imbalance between the two institutionalised. 
I come from a constituency where the councils are poorer and where they have benefited very greatly over the last couple of years from Grants Commission recommendations of the assistance that they should receive. I would be delinquent in my duty if I did not stand up in this Parliament and resist the principle which will give more to those who do not need it and take it away from councils such as those in my own area which do need it. I am going to be interested to hear what the honourable member who is to speak after me and who comes from a rural area has to say about the same principle because he will know that the ability of every local government authority in terms of dealing with its rate base is not the same. This particularly applies at the moment in rural areas. They will be very distressed to see the principle of per capita grants sneaking in just as those who represent the more disadvantaged areas in the metropolitan areas of this country are also extremely distressed. 
The problem is, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition put it, that the Government is so premature with this legislation. It is dismantling a system which has given local bodies direct access to the Grants Commission. It is doing it before it has delineated what it says it will do after the Premiers Conference next month- the details of its federalism policy. There has rarely been a piece of legislation that has come before this House which has been so premature, which a Minister justifies by reference to details yet to be announced. Constantly as one reads the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, who is sitting at the table, one will see that details are yet to be announced. 
But when government supporters get up and say that in some way members of the Labor Party are supporting some kind of centralism they are so wrong. This is not just about centralism at all. It is, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has said, about the most effective form of decentralisation. There can be no one who has fought harder in this Parliament or in his party or in all the councils of the party or outside for a decentralisation of decision making. Regionalism, as he said, is not a perfect system but it is a dynamic system that was developing. It was one suiting the purposes of local government. 
I revert again to something that was said in the same survey I have already referred to in yesterday's  Australian Financial Review,  and this time not by a journalist but by a man who is the Secretary of the Local Government Association of New South Wales,  Mr Miles,  who is no member of the Labor Party just as Councillor Thwaites is no member of the Labor Parry.  Mr Miles  says: 
One aspect of the new federalism which has made many local government observers uneasy is that the emphasis on the rights of the States could serve to confirm some of the centralist policies within individual States which have operated very much against the interests of local government. 
I think that is the nub of the matter. I think that is the problem, and that is the problem that arises out of this piece of legislation. It is not the problem that perhaps arises out of some concept of what ideally the new Fraser federalism might mean because we do not know what that is; but we do know now what this piece of legislation is doing. It is made very clear in the fiddling with sections 17 and 18 of the existing Act, and that makes it very clear that local government bodies which are defined clearly in the existing Actbodies incorporated under statute by each of the States, bodies that we do not seek to say will not be treated as local government bodies but bodies which are regarded as local government bodies by each of the States- shall approach the Grants Commission in regions, in artificial regions. Of course they are artificial, as every unit of government in this country is artificial, but are they regions imposed by a Canberra authority? No, they are regions that are agreed on between a Minister of this national Government and a Minister of a State government. Between them they have agreed on regions that are dynamic, that will change from time to time and that can approach a Grants Commission and seek aid on the basis of need, as the Grants Commission has granted. 
That is what this Bill is seeking to remove and that is why it is a thoroughly objectionable piece of legislation. That is why however many objections we may have to the so-called Fraser federalism, to guessing at what percentage of personal income tax will be made available to local government bodies, we at least now have a system that is working, a system that is working to the advantage of local government authorities. It is a system which is granting financial assistance to them for which they are grateful and which they are using. Here we have a Minister who comes in and talks about a Bill which he says will define in the Act 'assistance to a State for local government purposes'. Yet every government party supporter in this chamber will vote for this Bill knowing, as I have pointed out, that in fact clause 8 of the Bill does no such thing; that it leaves it up to regulations. 
It is about time that in this Parliament we did not leave it up to Ministers by regulations to set priorities about what is a suitable local government purpose. We should insist that that is something we talk about here in the Parliament. National goal setting about where and how we make decisions should be decided here in open debate and not by some ministerial decision gazetted, you can be sure, in the 2-month recess before the Budget when we are all back in our constituencies. That is just not good enough. We ought not to be in any doubt when we vote on this Bill. I will make sure that every member of every marginal constituency held by a Liberal Party or a Country Party member in this chamber has his constituents know they are voting to deny the local authorities in their electorate access to the Grants Commission in this country and for no good reason. It is a shameful piece of legislation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Foreign Minister seen reports that the Government of Singapore has demanded the deportation of 3 Singapore students from Australia? If such a request has been made, is he able to assure the House that those 3 persons, or any other foreign students in Australia, will not be deported for the mere expression of private political opinions? 
Can he further assure the House that any overseas embassies making requests in such circumstances will be directed to cease the harassment of and spying upon their nationals in Australia? 
I am moved to rise this evening by some remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who persists in the view that every supporter of a liberation movement in Africa is in some way supporting the communists. He instances the unfortunate example- unfortunate in every way- of Angola. The suggestion is made that Angola in some way is in the situation it is in because of Cuban intervention and Russian intervention. Angola is in the position it is in because the Portuguese occupation was countenanced for far too long by the whole of the Western world, particularly by its North Atlantic Treaty Organisation allies who never applied any pressure to get it out of Angola and to see that there was some proper independent movement to take power in that country. Two or 3 years ago - 
If the honourable member for the Northern Territory keeps quiet he will learn something. Two or 3 years ago the rest of the world supporting the liberation of Angola, as surely as at that time the honourable member for the Northern Territory was supporting its enslavement by the Portuguese, recognised as the government- the government not only in exile but in liberated areas- the government of Holden Roberto of the FNLA. If the rest of the world had helped that government and had helped the Portuguese to get out of Africa, out of Angola, we would have had the FNLA ruling and not the MPLA. I am not here to prejudge the MPLA but it came to power in those circumstances because a government that could have been a viable government was not sup- ported by the rest of the world when it could ave been. 
If the communists have achieved any degree of influence in Angola it is precisely because of the troglodyte views of the honourable member for the Northern Territory and the people who sit on the Government side in this Parliament. I am delighted to see that the grandoise pretensions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to become an Indian Ocean power now extend to the Atlantic Ocean as well. Those fantasies are very well placed when they spring from the minds of people like the honourable member for the Northern Territory. When we hear the ravings of people like this who have never stood up in this place once to demand majority rule for any enslaved nation in Africa it comes very poorly from their mouths to complain about communist influence. Do not say it to people in this side who fought for the freedom movements in Zimbabwe and Angola. 
-My question is addressed to the Treasurer. By way of assistance for the honourable gentleman let me say that the question relates to Statement 2 of the Budget Papers. It is in 4 parts, the first three of which will lend themselves to a very quick yes or no answer. Does Statement 2 project a rate of increase in money supply- broadly defined M3- of 10 per cent to 12 per cent over the forthcoming year? Does the same Statement also anticipate a consumer price index increase of about 12 per cent for the year? Is the rate of growth in real nonfarm gross domestic product projected at 4 per cent? Do these projections not indicate that, if money supply is to be increased to cover cost movements and real growth in the economy, it should increase by IS per cent to 16 per cent and that the much lower rate of increase projectedthat is, 10 per cent to 12 per cent- represents a sharp monetary squeeze for the year? 
-The AttorneyGeneral said it in his second reading speech. When he replies he will tell the honourable member whether he said it. One of the things he said was that this measure was designed to stop hasty and ill-advised marriages. There is no one to whom the Attorney-General defers more or whose judgment he better anticipates than the Governor-General of this country. The GovernorGeneral of this country married last year. In an answer to question on notice No. 515 in this Parliament, which related to whether the parties to that marriage had given any notice under section 42 of the principal Act which is now being amended, the Attorney-General said that he did not think this was the kind of information that ought to be made available to the public. He acknowledged then that when persons sought to get married it was their own private business. He acknowledged it then but he does not acknowledge it now in the amendment that he urges on this House. I do not want to flesh out too much for honourable members what that means, but it will be useful to some of them at least if I tell the House that the case of  Robson  v.  Robson,  which honourable members will remember was discussed in the first sittings of this Parliament, alluded - 
-Those honourable members opposite who are interjecting somewhat frivolously during the debate on this serious subject would do better to be quiet. I know something about being married under these circumstances, being married to a person who was divorced. Those records will be available at Ash Street with the other personal records and information that the Liberal Party of Australia keeps if honourable members opposite wish to look at them. The case of  Robson  v.  Robson  was an expedited divorce hearing. It was heard on 18 April 1975. 1 do not know whether the lady involved was the petitioner or the respondent, but she remarried - 
The honourable member for St George can enlighten me. He will no doubt know the facts. She remarried on 29 April, exactly 1 1 days after the  decree absolute  was made. The person whose judgment honourable members opposite give the greatest credence would not, under the provision that the Government has bought before this House, have been able to remarry. How hypocritical and how typical of honourable members opposite. 
I must say that the honourable member for Prospect has exhibited once again by his interjection that, for a layman, he has a greater knowledge of the law than has the honourable member for St George. That is, of course, provided for in section 42, whereby a prescribed authority can shorten the notice. Even that shortening of notice is not a public document; it is not a public procedure. In any event it is one, presumably, on which the Attorney-General would never enlighten us. This measure is cloaked in humbug. The idea is that marriage exists as some airy-fairy concept outside the real world. The stresses on marriage are the economic stresses, and the social stresses which this very week every honourable member opposite has sought to ignore. They are the stresses that are placed upon marriage and they are why marriages come unstuck. 
If the honourable member for La Trobe, who is not interjecting but who is at least sighing vigorously as if he has had something to do with an upset marriage, wants to know about this matter he can attend on any day he wishes in the Family Courts of this country and find out. It is not because people do not know about tender caresses and the other physical aspects of marriage which, oddly enough, the Attorney-General referred to in the final paragraph of his second reading speech when he talked about this gross invasion of civil liberties being justified as a persuasion and inducement to people to increase their self awareness and their awareness of each other when contemplating marriage. That could have come out of the passages of a Johnson and Masters sex manual. It is absolute nonsense and rubbish. I hope that on this occasion, which I hope will be a non-party occasion, honourable members opposite will feel - 
It has not been made clear yet whether this is a non-party measure for members of the Government Parties. There is no logic whatsoever in extending the period of notice to 30 days. No one on the Opposition side takes any comfort from marriages breaking apart, but at least I hope that that measure- I think it is clause 13,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; correct me if I am wrong- will be opposed by a number of honourable members. 
-Reading legislation is a relatively simple matter. The honourable member will learn to do it after he has been here for a number of years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am disappointed that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has left the chamber. What I have to say is relevant both to what the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  had to say and to what we have just heard. The honourable member for Hunter referred to the subject of the Press and to the fact that the metropolitan Press seems to be extremely selective in its coverage of news involving the employees of politicians who are members of this House. That does not come as a surprise to those of us on this side of the House. During adjournment debates it is quite easy for honourable members on both sides of the House to draw attention to the shortcomings of the Press- either the metropolitan media or the local newspapers, some of which we have never heard of up till now and will never hear of in the future. So often during the adjournment debates in this session honourable members have deprecated the Press for its shortcomings, and I think that I should take this opportunity to draw attention to a splendid piece of journalism in a Melbourne metropolitan newspaper. It puts together very well words that I can easily adopt and address to the situation which has been spoken about so poorly and so shabbily by the honourable member for 
La Trobe. He attempted to extract political advantage out of a very unfortunate situation. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  made it quite clear yesterday, as did the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on national television tonight, that no member of the Labor Party applauds physical violence. Let us examine this in context. In the Melbourne  Age  today Claude Forell- his voice which will not be silenced by the Press barons- referred to this matter. I will read selective passages of his article and, at the end of the week, I will send copies to the constituents of honourable members opposite. When speaking about the kind of behaviour that the honourable member for La Trobe has been engaging in, Claude Forell said: 
It is deceptively easy to dismiss and deplore the anti-Kerr and anti-Fraser demonstrations as manifestations of a few loutish malcontents incited by sinister and subversive forces. 
He goes on to put that in context and states further: . . . many people have again come to feel that they are the unfair losers in a struggle between opposing classes of society, ' them and us '. 'They- the rulers and the interests behind them- have regained power not only by capitalising on the mistakes of the Labour Government, but by systematically twisting the democratic processes to their own ends. 
I interpolate here to say that that applies very strongly to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  The article states further: 
Now they are deliberately depressing the real living standards and limiting the opportunities of ordinary people by maintaining high unemployment, holding back wages and cutting back public services and welfare while enhancing the profits of big business. 
What recourse have these people who feel cheated by those able to exploit the system? To be allowed to cast a vote whenever those who manipulate the levers of power find it convenient to spring an election seems little more than a sop. 
He concludes, talking about the man who is the benefactor of this centre at Monash University which, contrary to the impression that certain Government supporters are seeking to create - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. Does the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs require the debate to be extended? 
-My question is to the Foreign Minister. I refer to the answer the honourable member gave to a question on 26 August when he stated that Government aid to Timor would in the future be channelled through the Indonesian Red Cross. Given the standing of the Indonesian Red Cross in relation to the Indonesian Government and the fact that his decision on aid represents the abandonment of a key element of the Government's past policy, will he now confirm that this decision represents either  de facto  recognition of or a major step towards formal recognition of Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor? 
Firstly, let me commend both the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  for their implicit denunciation of the shortsightedness of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in his conception of foreign aid programs and his reluctance to follow the most creative programs they have developed this evening. In addition- and I want all honourable members opposite to hear this -  ( Government supporters interjecting) 
-The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  is no slouch in the field of numeracy. He had the misfortune to be followed by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  one of the men who in this chamber commands the greatest respect for his dedication to the development of serious policies in relation to social security. There was a joke contribution also by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  whose contribution was, I think, regrettted as much by members on this side as was his appointment to the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial in preference to those of his colleagues who were much more qualified such as the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  a fellow who served in a real war in which we were united. 
I just want to say to both the honourable member for Macarthur and the honourable member for St George that if they look at the real amounts expended in 1975-76 they will see that in that financial year the expenditure was so much greater than the foolish projections of their Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  when she takes averages back to 1954 and then erects figures on 25 per cent of that average. It is a most extraordinary fiddling with figures. If honourable members opposite are silly enough to believe that that pie in the sky will save them from the wrath of the aged persons whom this Government has so grievously deceived these past 9 months they are very, very foolish indeed. My words apply especially to the honourable member for St George whose electorate borders on my electorate and whose everyday deceptions are becoming known to his constituents and those in border constituencies. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 
-There is no more Medibank. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has never grasped that. He continues to mislead the public and this chamber, the use of the expression 'Medibank private functions' would be as logical as the use of the expression 'Medibank standard functions' instead of 'general' functions. The Government has perverted the scheme of health insurance in this country and no one on this side of the chamber would be happy to see the word 'Medibank', which We associate with a noble scheme well accepted in Australia, go into a description of funds that are registered under the National Health Act. It will be seen from the legislation which was so hastily introduced last June that it was not until then that this Government had even introduced a definition of a 'privately insured person'. The Minister says that the heading 'Part IiA-Medibank Private' is more appropriate than the amendment which proposes 'Part IIA- Medical Benefits Fund and Hospital Benefits Fund'. If he looks at proposed new section 8a he will see that it talks about nothing but the right to conduct a medical benefits fund and a hospital benefits fund. The National Health Act was never posited on the existence of any private organisations whatsoever. Medibank private is a solecism. Medibank no longer exists. The amendments deserve the support of this chamber. 
This is a wake and I am glad that so many members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have seen fit to come. The Government has put up a top flight team of speakers- the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  and the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  Against that we put up 2 members of this House who are among the few people who have taken a consistently intelligent interest in matters relating to health insurance. They are two of the people who have had a chance of getting some grasp of the complex system this Government is trying to inflict on the Austalian people. 
Medibank was a simple concept. It was a concept which attracted every one of the members opposite at the last general election. One or two of the members opposite have expressed reservations about Medibank during this debate. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  remarked that amongst other things, Medibank mollycoddled people and was a monster that got out of control. Then last night during the debate on the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill (No. 2) the honourable member for 
Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  came out of his closet and said that he had never favoured Medibank. I. dare say that that was a sentiment that he expressed in very soft tones around his constituency at the last election. 
The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  then the installed Prime Minister- said on behalf of both of those parties on 8 December: 
I have said repeatedly that essential programs in health, education and urban development will be maintained. Medibank will be maintained. 
As recently as 3 February this year the Prime Minister said: 
You've got to look at it against a commitment to maintain Medibank and that's not just a verbal use of the term 'Medibank ' I think the concept of Medibank was endorsed. 
The concept of Medibank is terribly important. It is a concept that was acknowledged in debates here by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  Speaking last week on the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) in his farewell tribute to the staff of the Health Insurance Commission he said: 
I wish to pay tribute to the staff for the significant part it has played in the success of the Medibank program. 
He was not talking about the operations of some statutory corporation in the perfunctory manner of a chief executive or a  chairman  of a company. He was talking about their commitment to a concept. Medibank was a simple, efficient health insurance scheme. It was a scheme for which the majority of the people voted in the elections in 1969, 1972, 1974 and, although they were gulled, in 1975. 
Last year and in the years before that the Liberal and Country Party Opposition fought against the scheme from the beginning, in hand with the Australian Medical Association, the private health funds and the intricate web of interests which stood to benefit from the more than one million Australians remaining uncovered for medical and hospital treatment and from the continuance of more than 200 wasteful, duplicative and hopelessly inefficient health insurance funds. Those funds represent the interests of the institutions which use the money siphoned off into reserves for investment purposes, the well fed bureaucracies which run them and the doctors whose interests were prized by the old system over the patients ' interests. 
Medibank was the first attempt by an Australian Government to rationalise the insurance system covering health care delivery. It was carefully designed, it was simple, it was understood by people. It benefited many people in its. short life. The Liberals gave it less than a year. The Government has caved in to AMA pressure and pressure by the private funds, and has used the health insurance program to offload a substantial 'apparent' amount in the deficit by destroying the original and only meaningful Medibank concept, forcing half of Australia back into the greedy arms of the private health empire. It should be understood very clearly that the Government's motivation is purely a shabby, sideshow attempt to make it appear as if it is reducing the cost of health insurance to the Government. It is not. It is plunging the health insurance business into chaos and uncertainty and is forcing up the total cost of health care in Australia simply so that at the next election the Government can say that it has reduced the deficit by so much. It should be understood that the Government, in breaking its election undertaking last November not to meddle with Medibank, is dismantling Medibank, not to make health insurance more efficient but so that it can fiddle the national accounts around a little, move some figures sideways and some other figures out altogether, and make it look as if it has saved Australia a lot of money by handing health insurance substantially back to the discredited private funds. The reality is that the Government is adding to the total cost of health care in Australia because the administrative nightmares, duplications and extra-procedural work load will mean substantially increased costs. 
A major advantage of Medibank is its inherent administrative efficiency. This resulted from the fact that there are no contributions to collect from members and from the highly computerised processing of claims, including the preparation of benefit cheques. A high proportion of the staff of organisations registered under the National Health Act have been involved in the collection and processing of contributions and the maintenance of membership lists. Furthermore, the scale of operations in each of these registered organisations has not been large enough to warrant automation of the claims assessment procedure. An assessor working in the Medibank system is able to process about 3 times as many claims per day as his or her counterpart in a registered health insurance organisation because most of the calculations, checking and editing procedures are computerised. 
It should be borne in mind that the Health Insurance Commission's centralised computer system in Canberra handles all medical claims at present and will simply be left with excess capacity when a high proportion of claims reverts to the registered benefits funds. Nor are there likely to be any savings in the numbers of assessing administrative staff of the Health Insurance Commission since provision will need to be made for,  inter alia,  the checking of claims to ensure that claimants are not covered by registered medical benefits funds. The difficulties of determining at any time whether a person is eligible for benefits payable by the Commission under the Health Insurance Act or is covered by a medical benefits fund are accentuated by the fact that a contributor to such a fund may commence or let lapse his or her membership at any time during the financial year. 
The Prime Minister and the parties which stand behind him in this chamber conducted a campaign of vilification against Medibank last year to try to create an atmosphere of chaos and confusion and to give Medibank and reputation of being inefficient and open to massive abuse by doctors and patients. In opposition and in government the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister have delivered not one shred of evidence that the abuse they so often talked about actually existed anywhere but in their fevered imaginations. Of more than 17 000 practising doctors in Australia only one has been prosecuted to date for abusing the Medibank system. Honourable members opposite will be interested to learn what one of their conservative newspaper supporters had to say about their dismantling of Medibank. The editorial contained in the  Age of  29 July 1976 said: 
The Federal Government has effectively destroyed the concept of one national health insurance scheme. In so doing it concocted a muddle which in the emotive words of 'costs', 'competition' and 'choice' became a rhetorical substitute for the creation of a fair and economical system of health care. Even now, more than half the population cannot judge whether it will be more advantageous for them to insure with Medibank 's Private fund or with one of the commercial funds . . . . . . more than half the population will be delivered into more expensive hospital and medical care. It may well be that most higher income earners would prefer this option anyway, but the Government has given private doctors and hospitals- as distinct from salaried or sessionally paid doctors and public hospitals- a guaranteed market consisting of the more affluent half of the population. 
The main excuse given for the imposition of this confusing and complex system is that it would restrain the escalating costs of health care. It will do little or nothing of the sort .... the supposedly anti-inflationary motive behind the Medibank changes is largely illusory. The dubious benefits of competition and choice between Medibank and the private funds are likely to be more than offset by the higher administrative costs of this needlessly fragmented system .... the Government has increased the total cost on the community. 
The health insurance mishmash of the Prime Minister is a monstrosity in concept and by design. The details of it are only shakily and imprecisely grasped by honourable members on the Government benches. The scheme is socially divisive. It is inefficient. It will increase the cost of health care in Australia and it will have a disastrously inflationary effect on the December consumer price index. The scheme has caused needless chaos and uncertainty amongst Australians. The ordinary tax payer did not really know the extent of the cost of the scheme until now, as he contemplates the cost which he will be charged after October this year. Bulk billing, one of the mainstays of the Medibank scheme, has been put in grave jeopardy by permitting medical practitioners to charge patients the difference between the amount recoverable and the standard fee charged. The number of beds available in private hospitals is grossly exaggerated by private funds in an attempt to induce people to take insurance which they do not need and which many people cannot afford. 
Hardly a day goes by when both the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister do not change their minds about some aspect of their new monstrosity. They have wasted hundreds of thousands of dollars of taxpayers' money on printing pamphlets which immediately become obsolete. When in opposition they criticised the Labor Government's expenditure of some $750,000 in publicising the Medibank program. Now that they have had to spend millions of dollars over and over again to publicise their frequently changing systems of health insurance, they cry poor. Medimuddle, brought to us by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health, is as easy as one, two three, provided we have a ton of perseverance and a higher degree in pure and applied mathematics. Both the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister have displayed a lack of understanding of what is involved with Medibank and with the operation of national health insurance schemes. This has horrified officers in their departments who have been trying to make this monstrosity work. Members of the Medibank Review Committee have been defamed daily. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Because I was not present last night I cannot judge which Bills the honourable member was speaking on. So far the honourable member for Grayndler has not transgressed. 
-Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am speaking on the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill (No. 2) and the Health Insurance Levy Bill (No. 2). I am explaining their purpose. That might have escaped the attention of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige).  Members of the Medibank Review Committee have been defamed daily in this House when their names have been called in aid of this monstrosity. Reference has been made to a report which they never prepared, which never existed, which has never been tabled in the House and which has never been made available. Their reputations have been shot to pieces because it has been represented in this House by honourable members on the Government side consistently that those Medibank Review Committee members support this mishmash. We have never seen that report. 
During the Committee stage we will get to the very imprecise procedures of collection upon which this Bill is posited. Meanwhile, it only remains to point out that the legislative drafters have instituted a prize called the Robinson Prize which relates to this bad penny which keeps coming back. Every honourable member on the Government side has a red face. They hoped that the issue would be out of the way last June. It was not supposed to come up again. It was supposed to be over. It was a most inept job of parliamentary drafting because it was a most inept thinking process. That was absolutely inevitable. But we will get to that matter in the Committee stage. I say to honourable members: Stick around for instalment No. 2. 
I shall not test your patience,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  by canvassing such a wide field as did the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon).  It is, nonetheless, a great privilege to follow him in this debate. He is an expert on finance. I want him to listen to what I have to say because I want to put some serious considerations to him. I hope that I can draw him back into the debate. I should like to revert to the Robinson Prize- it probably should be called the Robinson-Hunt Prize- because I suspect that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was not as intimately involved in the design of this absurd scheme of health insurance as was the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt). 
-The honourable member should wait and see. At the Legislative Drafting Institute they have had to put up with these ill-devised, ill-defined schemes. This is a debate, as honourable members will be aware, that should never be happening. This is the debate that the Government was supposed to put to bed last May and June so that it would not be faced with the embarrassment of its bungling so close to the time that the taxpayers of Australia are having to fiddle with these stupid forms foisted upon them by the Government. If the Government looked at the legislation it rushed into the Parliament at the end of the last sitting, it would find that the legislation was so badly drawn that in some Bills- for example, the Health Insurance Commission Bill- virtually every substantive provision has been repealed by the Bill which the Government has now produced. Let us examine the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1976. 
Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue. 
-What licence did we give him? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for Holt is addressing the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! If the honourable member for Holt will resume his seat I shall explain the position to him. The Committee is considering the Bill as a whole. Honourable members from time to time, where it might be helpful, could mention to which clause they are actually referring, but there is no such need when the Committee is dealing with the Bill as a whole. I understand the implication the honourable member makes, namely that a second reading debate is meant to deal with the concept or the philosophy of the legislation and that consideration at the Committee stage is meant to stick more closely to the elements of the Bill itself, but at this stage in the debate I do not object to the words used by the honourable member for Grayndler. I call the honourable member for Grayndler. 
I shall refer immediately to the amendment under consideration which in fact does relate to clause 4 in the Bill I mentioned. It is to the effect that the Government now proposes to give an exemption to pensioners who are entitled to pensioner health benefits. This is a change of heart, and the Government ought to own up to it, because it is a noble change of heart. It is one in relation to which it ought to be more forthcoming. It is a provision which was not in the legislation which the Government introduced in May. It is not one which is described in the misleading pamphlets which was produced at a cost of millions of dollars to Australian taxpayers. That pamphlet, produced in August 1976 by authority of the Department of Health, states: 
If you're a pensioner who receives only your pension, you will not have to pay any levy for Standard Medibank benefits. This will include many people who are entitled to pensioner health benefits. However, if you receive any extra money you may have to pay the levy. 
That in fact is not now the case, and the Government has caused needless heartache to a great many pensioners. The genesis of proposed new section 2 5 1 X is very simple. Let me tell the House about it. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who is assisted by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who is at the table, received on the day after he delivered his Budget a delegation from the Combined Pensioners Association of Australia. That delegation put it to him that it was inequitable that many of the people who are now entitled to pensioner health benefits and who do not have to pay for their medical care will, in future, have to pay the levy. Our Treasurer said: 'Oh, no, that cannot be true', with the familiarity that he always exhibits in relation to the Budget Papers. He immediately rang up the Minister for Health. He said: 'Ralph, is this the case? It cannot be so, can it?' Ralph said: 'Yes, I'm afraid it is'. So immediately after that the Government went into this secret operation to give to these pensioners the benefits to which they are entitled. Why does not the Government come out and say - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Do I presume that the honourable member is talking about the Minister for Health? 
I was, in legal parlance, doing what is called a 'verbal. ' I was reciting verbatim the conversation. The Minister for Health, very creditably if belatedly, gave these pensioners their due. What the amendment seeks to do is to give that exemption in the legislation, and not by way of regulation, to ensure that the exemption for pensioners entitled to pensioner health benefits is not made subject to the whim of the government of the day which could prescribe it out of existence by altering the regulations gazetted during a parliamentary recess. Let us put that provision into the legislation, as indeed we do for every other person who is exempt from the levy. For repatriation personnel, for defence forces personnel we have in the relevant legislation an exemption. We ought to put that exemption in this legislation in relation to pensioners entitled to pensioner health benefits. I think it is fair to the pensioners. It is an equitable principle. 
It is in this regard that, if I can, I want to draw back into the debate the right honourable member for Lowe- an important principle of taxation with which he will be familiar. The Income Tax Assessment Act, which is amended by this legislation, does not permit of the prescription of any person as exempt from any tax. The regulations made under that legislation do not permit the government of the day to prescribe exemptions. A very important principle in taxation legislation is that the Parliament gives these exemptions. It is one that wc ought to uphold as an important principle quite apart from the question of giving pensioners justice. I do not ask for any great retraction from the Minister for troubling us with that bothersome debate a couple of months ago because the legislation was so poorly drawn. I simply ask now that the Government makes the position very clear to pensioners who, as every honourable member here who does his constituency duties will know, are concerned about the prospect of their being subject to a levy and to persons who are entitled to pensioner health benefits but who pay income tax and who would, apart from the regulations which we are told it is intended to make under this legislation, have had to pay the levy. Let us stand up for the rights of those pensioners and put it here in the legislation. That is what the amendment proposes. It is a principle of justice for pensioners. It is also a very proper principle in relation to taxation legislation and in relation to the Income Tax Assessment Act which is the legislation that this Bill amends. 
The Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in his second reading speech on the Health Insurance Levy Bill (No. 2 ) stated: 
Its comparative length is due to the need to cater for combinations of less than usual situations. 
I briefly draw the attention of the House to a situation that is not less than usual but is extraordinarily complicated by the procedures laid down by this Bill. It is a procedure which a great many taxpayers around Australia are grappling with today. The Australian Taxation Office exemption forms provide only for people taking insurance under the National Health Act, including the socalled Medibank Private. But a large percentage of young working families are expected to pay only the health insurance levy. As the situation stands, if the husband pays the family levy of up to $5.80 a week, which automatically covers his wife and children for public hospital ward and 85 per cent of medical costs, his working wife will still have to pay the single levy of up to $2.90 a week. This money will be refunded to the wife but not until the end of the financial year when tax returns are filled in. 
If a working husband and wife decide to pay the levy separately at single rates up to a maximum of $2.90 a week, the Taxation Office will demand that the husband pay an additional $ 1 50 at the end of the year to cover his wife. The $150 paid by his wife would then be refunded. This situation could be avoided if the Taxation Office added another sentence to its levy exemption forms stating that a working wife would be exempt from paying the levy if it was being paid by her husband, and perhaps requiring the husband 's levy number to be stated. This problem was raised at question time today with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  A report in yesterday's  Australian  states: 
The Medibank spokesman said: 'The Taxation Department has shown no indication that they will do this. They have taken no steps to make the payment of the levy by working husbands and wives easier'. A spokesman for the Taxation Department yesterday confirmed that working husbands and wives would have to pay the levy and the extra money would be refunded to the wife at the end of the tax year. 
That is not an unusual situation and it ought not to have been beyond the wit of the Government or of its advisers to devise a satisfactory solution to it. This is not a simple scheme. It is extremely complex. The last word on the demise of Medibank perhaps should belong to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He is not here. In his absence I state: The story of Medimuddle is not really that funny. It has been conceived in an atmosphere of lies, deception and humbug and will mean increased cost to the community, chaos and needless confusion. Where once there was a simple scheme which worked for the benefit of all we now have a more expensive and hopelessly more complicated scheme which is socially divisive and inefficient and which many experts say will not work. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  have used Medibank as part of their overall economic strategy to window-dress the national accounts and make it appear as if they are good managers. Few will be deceived by this. 
The Long March in China of  Chairman  Mao is over. The long march of our leader,  Chairman  Mai, is commonly believed by his supporters to have commenced in Launceston and not in some sleazy Toorak encounter after a hamburger or after  Mr Gorton  had been knifed in the back. So let us go back to Launceston, which was the scene of the start of the long march and which is where his favourite Tasmanian- the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)-  comes from and see what the exceedingly conservative  Launceston Examiner  has had to say about this scheme. In its editorial of 30 July it said: 
So what have Prime Minister Fraser and his Ministers been on about for so long? Instead of a better, brighter health insurance scheme, we appear to have a costlier, unwieldier, class conscious, divisive and confusing rag bag designed to satisfy the ideological nit pickers in the Government camp. 
It is indicative of the enormous influence  Mr Fraser  wields in the Government. 
I rise to speak about a very serious matter. Earlier this evening the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  referred to the country's being down on its knees. At that point I want to come in  4-square,  chock-a-block, behind something the Governor-General had to say about the corruption of youth. 
Absolutely not,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I give you that assurance very expeditiously. In today's  Age  there is a report about the Governor-General's concern about the corruption of youth. He expressed this concern at the Returned Services League congress. For once every honourable member on this side agrees with what the Governor-General had to say. He talked about forces being highly organised, campaigning to convert students to political ideologies, forces at work in society today aimed directly at young people, a high degree of organisation in the proselytisation of the young. The guilty men opposite who are trying to interject know that the Governor-General has come out of his closet on this question of the corruption of youth. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)-  the giver of gratuitous advice last year- are now being shown up for what they were by the man they suborned. He has come out to say to them that no longer must their perversion of democracy, their corruption of youth - 
-This is a mere ruse. It is a very serious - 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made several addresses at the weekend in which, quite properly, he referred to the Budget. He said in a speech last Saturday that there is and can be no divorce of economic and social objectives. He further said that the Budget is a document of major social importance. This is a view of the Budget to which every member on the Opposition side subscribes. Honourable members opposite, quite rightly, have concentrated to some extent on the economic objectives of the Budget. They have been unduly optimistic in their assessment of its chances of success. It is fair to look at both these elements- both the economic objectives and the social objectives. 
Let us look first at the economic objectives. The overriding concern of the Government, as it articulates it, is the containment of inflation. That may be commendable enough, but the overriding fact of economic life since the Government assumed office, and it will be for the remainder of the financial year, is continuing unemployment. It is fair to look at what the Government's projections are in this area and what it plans to do about unemployment. It is not a subject that any honourable member should seek to treat lightly or to use for his own narrow political advantage; yet I am afraid that is what the Prime Minister sought to do at the weekend. Instead of talking about plans to bring down unemployment, to put back into employment people who have been placed on the jobless list for the first time in their lives and to give some hope to young people who have left school this year or who will be leaving school at the end of the year, unfortunately he sought to gain narrow' political advantage when, in one of his addresses at the weekend, he said: 
It should be remembered that since the election there, New South Wales, which has only 36 per cent of the Australian labour force, has accounted for 64 per cent of the increase in Australia 's unemployment. Of the 46 000 people who have become unemployed in the last 4 months, 29 000 are in New South Wales alone- what a record for  Mr Wran. 
There is not a single honourable member opposite who honestly believes that the advent of the Labor Government in New South Wales has had one ounce of effect on the level of unemployment in that State. It is related to other identifiable factors. One of the Government's prime supporters, the  Sydney Morning Herald,  commenting in its editorial of Saturday, 4 September, on this line which was put not only by the Prime Minister but also by  Sir Eric  Willis, one of the earliest adherents to the Prime Minister's new federalism proposals, said: 
The best suggestion  Mr Fraser  and  Sir Eric  Willis have come up with is the remarkably silly one that, in some miraculous way, all the damage has been done by  Mr Wran  in the last 4 months. The problem deserves more serious attention than that. 
And so it does. The problem of unemployment, of course, is not one that has attracted the attention of those in the Opposition simply in the last month since the Budget was brought down. Members of the Opposition have been concerned about it right through the period that this Government has been in office. It has been concerned about the Government's unwinding of the schemes that Labor, in government, had instituted to put people back into the labour force. It is quite extraordinary to see in the material put out by the Treasury the way in which in single phrases the Government dismisses the effect of the Regional Employment Development scheme and other such schemes- so called State labour-creating schemes. It is precisely those sorts of schemes that the Government ought to be looking at now. It is precisely those sorts of schemes that would give some hope of people once more being able to earn their own wages. 
The Government's strategy in relation to unemployment has been remarkably consistent. At the same time as it has accepted an increasing level of unemployment, it has gone out of its way to make the situation for those who are unfortunate enough to be unemployed particularly inconvenient. This has been done not through something that was announced in the Budget but through the Government's announcement in March that those leaving school at the end of this year would not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits this year but would have to wait until at least February next year, when they otherwise would have been returning to school. It is about time that the Government and its advisers came out of their castles and realised that very many school leavers, even those leaving at the end of the school year, do not expect to be unemployed during the 3 months before the school year starts again. These kinds of savings are of the order of $33m. What a piddling amount. What an ordering of priorities. 
There is every prospect of continuing high unemployment. The Government, which was keen to get power last year in such a discreditable way, would now do well to tell us what it proposes to do about unemployment. Every member of the Government parties who has spoken in this debate has spoken about the level of unemployment in December 1972 and in November 1975. Let us hear about their plans to reduce it now. The Government owes the people of Australia that, after having tried their patience and torn apart the fabric of this country last year in their desperate pursuit of power. 
The Government also says that the Budget is posited upon a strong growth in consumer spending. This kind of reaction has not been evident. The contrary is true. This has become particularly evident in the last month. Industry stock buildup, which may have been a little evident earlier in the year, has now turned sour. Retail sales are down, and this is confirmed by every major retail group in Australia. The bulletin issued for this month by the Australian Industries Development Association is worthy of attention of honourable members. On page 2 it states: 
Many people in the private sector are also delighted to see these figures representing the apparent slashing of the government sector. But less delight might be expressed when it is realised that the 75 per cent reduction in outlay growth has been accompanied by less than 30 per cent reduction in the inflation rate. So outlays of government in terms of bricks, mortar and jobs, have been cut back absolutely . . . 
The strategy behind this Budget is a base electoral strategy. The purpose of the Prime Minister's advisers is always the same. It is to persuade the Liberal Party, as witnessed in the speeches at the weekend, and its candidates in particular, that the country has at long last moved sharply to the right. Specifically, they seek to persuade them that, politically speaking, there are no poor, no aged, no sick, no Aborigines, no immigrants, no people seriously squeezed by inflation, not many for whom unemployment is a major issue, no one whose health, education, food, shelter, protection from economic abuse or exploitation, or even survival, depends on the services of Government. According to them, there are only indignant taxpayers deeply angered at the wilful idleness of the unemployed. That is the sophisticated policy of the Prime Minister and his advisers. It is a dishonest policy. It is worthy of our condemnation. The strategy of holding down wages by holding over unions and people in the work force the prospect of unemployment is a particularly sick policy, when many of the people whom it will affect most are school leavers who will go onto the labour market without having known what it is like to earn wages. This Government contemplates that prospect quite calmly. 
The question of how to react to the inflation of the last few years is not an easy one to answer. It is not one for which any person on this side of the House has pretended to have a magic cure, but the suggestions put forward, particularly by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  have a great deal of worth. They at least recognise what might be done. They at least hold out some hope for the future. They indicate the role played by the Government in getting spending going again, in holding out prospects of employment to people and to contractors dependent upon government work. It is simply not good enough that the result of economic confusion, which has been a world wide phenomenon over the past several years, has been a division of political life between the conservatives, who prefer unemployment to inflation but do not say so publicly, and people in the Labor Party, some of whom might prefer inflation to unemployment but again do not say so. Obviously there is no political future for the 
Labor Party in such debate because unemployment in the foreseeable future will hurt a small number of people a lot but inflation will hurt a larger number of people a little. That is the kind of base electoral strategy which is at the bottom of this Budget and that is why it deserves condemnation. 
Turning now to the specific words of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  as I shall be the last Opposition  speaker  in this debate I should like to address myself to every individual element of that amendment. Firtly it states: the House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
By itself, that policy deserves condemnation. As an economic strategy it is so dubious that it has not been recognised by business, which has not responded in the last month and did not respond in the preceding months when the Government was flagging this strategy. Investment is not up; consumer spending is not up. Whatever social cost the Government is prepared to pay to witness this high unemployment has not been worth while and cannot possibly be worth while. The amendment continues: 
it abdicates Federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges . . . 
There has been no more sorry spectacle than that of Government Ministers parading around the country trumpeting the virtues of the so-called new federalism- the Fraser federalism. People have woken up to it. New South Wales, the only State which has had the opportunity to vote on it, decisively rejected a Liberal-Country Party coalition that had fallen for this bait. People in New South Wales realised that national goalsetting should be done here in Canberra. They realised that moving for the short term to block grants is a way of removing from sight the kind of programs the grants were intended to fund. Such a move is intended to remove such programs from the national focus here in Canberra so that responsibility can be duck-shoved and pushed off. 
Local government knows only too well the prevarications of this Government. Statistics about the amount of Federal money made available to local government are constantly distorted at Question Time by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  who refers again and again to the general purpose non-tied grants given to local government but always overlooks the huge amount of money made available by the Labor Government to local government for specific purpose programs. Local government welcomed that money. It knows the difference. It knows it has been gulled. It knows that the considerably less than 1.3 per cent of personal income tax which will now be made available is significantly less than the amount made available to local government by Labor. It knows that this reduction will result in increased charges being imposed by local government authorities throughout Australia and/or the reduction of the services they have been able to provide. The amendment continues: 
The House condemns the Budget because- 
It introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending. 
There has been no sorrier deception than that which was initiated on 20 May when the Government persisted in the view that somehow Medibank had survived. Medibank died. In its place is a mish-mash of health insurance which is to be supported for the less well off half of the community by a tax. It is a tax in the way it will be collected, it is a tax in the way it is assessed and where it is placed. 
The inadequacies of the way in which the tax will be collected were traversed at some length last week. However, it bears repeating this week that, as every wage and salary earner in Australia struggles with the ridiculously complicated forms foisted upon them by this Government, they should know that this inconvenience and the extra cost to which they will be put after 1 October is a result of the Government's inadequate performance in health insurance and the breaking of a specific election promise to maintain Medibank. The effect of the levy, the tax, is going to be quite disastrous on the consumer price index for the December quarter, and that too has in it the seeds of a disastrous policy of industrial relations. The Government has been dishonest about how it intends to argue that this segment of the consumer price index should be treated when the matter comes up for argument before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Again, industrial relations will be made so much more difficult as part of a conscious policy of this Government. The amendment continues: the House condemns the Budget because- 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants. 
Dealing with the first of those categories, it was nothing less than nauseating to see the Prime Minister travel to Wilcannia to open projects while in their own Party councils honourable members opposite have had to nod agreement at the expression of racist sentiment and, outrage at the expenditure of the Labor Government on these kinds of projects. In addition to that, we have seen in this Budget a massive cut of $30m-odd from the outlay for Aboriginal affairs. Again, that is simply a pursuit of the cynical electoral strategy I mentioned at the outset. 
The position of the unemployed is terribly distressing, of course, particularly that of the young employed. Statistics are now establishing very clearly a profile of the sort of person registering for unemployment at the moment, and particularly over the last couple of months. He is a person who has never had an opportunity in his life to work for wages and who is less likely to have it as a direct result of the policies of this Government. In relation to migrants, their expectations in so many areas were raised during the 3 years of Labor Government. No longer were migrants to be treated as cannon fodder in factories. Instead, they were to be treated as persons who had come to Australia and were to be given every chance for both themselves and their children, who were born here and were being brought up here. The inequalities inherent in the system were to be smoothed out. Access and social communication were to be made so much easier. Novel experiments were tried. Ethnic radio was a particular experiment, and since the Budget we have seen a less than adequate response from the Government to the demands of the ethnic community- not the demands of interdepartmental committees and boffins in the broadcasting industry but demands of the ethnic communities, clearly articulated but never acknowledged by this Government. Finally the amendment states:  the House condemns the Budget because- 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. 
There is nothing more absurd than Government Ministers running around this country urging business to invest when it is not prepared to make an investment itself in the future of the country, when it says that every dollar that will put someone to work is a good dollar, unless it is a dollar spent by the Government. That is plainly nonsense, and it is no surprise to those of us on this side of the House that business perceives it as such and clearly does not respond. Business is in a slump. The corporate managers of this country cannot be blamed for not responding to the Government's electoral strategy. They see it quite clearly for what it is. Unless they are in one of the favoured sections such as coal mining, most businesses realise that the Government has cynically connived at a strategy of business recovery in 1978, an election year. Business has become much more sophisticated in analysing the plans of government, and it will not respond in this year to those kinds of plans. 
The Budget deserves condemnation. The month that has passed since it was delivered has confirmed all the worst suspicions of the Labor Opposition. The figures produced in that time and the September statistics establish the clear strategy of the Government, not just at Budget time but also at the time of the statement of 20 May and earlier statements such as that made in March about the availability of the unemployment benefit and harder work tests. All these things have pointed up what is going to happen. There will be no revival of consumer confidence in this country while this Government remains in power. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer the honourable gentleman to the statement in the annual report of the Department of Social Security, tabled in the House yesterday, that there is an extensive waiting list of voluntary agencies seeking financial assistance under the migrant social worker grant-in-aid scheme. In view of the fact that five of the limited number of positions available under this scheme have never been filled by the Fraser Government and the fact that at least double that number of such positions are now vacant, will he express to the Minister for Social Security the concern of the ethnically-based voluntary organisations about the Government's casual approach and urge her to cut the waiting list which she has extended so unecessarily? Further, will he urge the same Minister to ensure that the appointment of welfare officers by such organisations, as is proposed in the same annual report, is funded by the Government in addition to, and not in lieu of, assistance under the existing migrant social worker grantinaid scheme? 
-I shall be brief. The Social Welfare Commission (Repeal) Bill before the House repeals the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973. As the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, the Opposition does not oppose that. I should like to look very briefly at one of the more important tasks of the Social Welfare Commission which was the evaluation of the Australian Assistance Plan. The Plan was an experimental program under which the Government funded community welfare projects and the employment of community development officers who were quite often used in projects themselves funded under the Plan. The costs of such projects and the salary costs of persons involved full time in them are no longer funded by the Government. The Social Welfare Commission evaluated these projects and the effectiveness of Federal funding for local initiatives by them through a variety of voluntary bodies and local government authorities. Funding under the Australian Assistance Plan was challenged by the Victorian, New South Wales and Western Australian governments, all of which at that time were under Tory administrations. The Fraser Government now wishes to absolve itself of any Federal responsibility for these kinds of projects. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  says that such projects are more amenable to administration and funding at State and local government levels. The evaluations carried out by the Social Welfare Commission have shown the hollowness of that kind of statement. 
All programs under the Australian Assistance Plan were of course administered locally. Perhaps regional social development councils were not the ideal vehicles for social planning, but after all, the Australian Assistance Plan was experimental. But the clear message of the Social Welfare Commission's work is that Federal funding is essential to the continuing viability of the community welfare projects initiated. Seed money is not enough. Even the Minister for Social Security acknowledges this. The reports of the Social Welfare Commission established in my own area the need for many of the projects. The assessment was funded under the Australian Assistance Plan. Now that the need has been established, the project will not be able to get funds under that Plan because the grants are no longer to be made available by the Fraser Government. One particular crying instance of this relates to the Dulwich Hill community centre. I attended a festival organised by the people who initiated this project with the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  whose electorate adjoins my electorate. At that time I made the point that the grants available under this program were in grave jeopardy. Now that the need has been shown, the funds will not be available. 
The use of expressions like 'proper' and 'appropriate' to describe Federal areas of responsibility are mere smokescreens thrown up by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Social Security. Many projects funded by the Federal Government under the Australian Assistance Plan and evaluated by the Social Welfare Commission obtained a large part of their costs from other Federal programs some of which are still on foot even though the appropriations for them have been cut considerably. Two examples that spring to mind are the grants to community agencies administered by the Migrant Community Services Branch of the Department of Social Security and the Community Arts Program of the Australia Council. Does the Federal Government say that that kind of expenditure is not appropriate for a Federal Government? Of course it is appropriate and so was the kind of expenditure under the Australian Assistance Plan. Those kinds of grants were essential; the work of the Social Welfare Commission clearly established that. The grants made available under the Australian Assistance Plan were also available in more flexible circumstances. The instance I have just cited- the Migrant Social Worker Grant in Aid scheme- has quite inflexible rules and yet grants of the same sort as are available under that scheme were made available to local government authorities. So local government authorities- popularly elected bodies- were able to discharge the duties they should be able to discharge. 
The reports of the Social Welfare Commission established that the worthwhile local initiatives and locally administered projects which were encouraged as a result of the grants from the Whitlam Labor Government are now in grave jeopardy. The Australian Assistance Plan and the grants made available under it provide flexibility in funding gaps in the existing sources of revenue. The absence of such grants will now be severely felt in my electorate, particularly amongst ethnic communities. The reports of the Social Welfare Commission established quite clearly the overlap in indentifying low income families in old, established inner city areas and new settlers in this country. It is no accident that these 2 groups quite often overlap. 
In my own electorate, many projects which were funded to try to help these kinds of persons are now about to be wound down because funds are no longer available. I give the House just one instance- a particularly novel one. We are talking here about tens of thousands of dollars in total. We are not talking about the millions which are given away for projects of very dubious economic value: we are talking about tens of thousands of dollars no longer available. One of the projects involved was the media bus. Instead of taking an information centre in a main street- it may be a set, physical facility quite intimidating to people- it took the information available out into the streets and moved it around. One day it would be in this shopping centre and another day it might be outside a local school. These kinds of projects cost in total tens of thousands of dollars, not hundreds of thousands, not millions. They will now be curtailed as a result of grants for programs which were administered under the Australian Assistance Plan not being available. The work of the Social Welfare Commission which is now to be abolished clearly established this. 
The other speakers in this debate have talked about the need for continuing evaluation of social research and thinking about social planning. That will simply not be good enough if the grants that have been made available within the last couple of years, if the expectations that have been around, are now to be crushed. In my electorate, the Bailey Committee is a hollow joke. The idea that there is a massive duplication of sources of funding available for welfare projects is just not true. In fact the grants that were made available should be made available. The Government ought to think about the ways in which those kinds of flexible grants are again made available to worthwhile local community projects. The planning of such local community projects, and the funding of such local community projects should remain the goal of Federal Parliament and the Federal Government. 
In rising to speak to these estimates, I was concerned to deal firstly with the estimates for ethnic affairs provided for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Of course, there are none because the Department is a complete misnomer. At the last election the coalition parties ' policy was perfectly straightforward. It said that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would establish a Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and that the migrant integration services being performed in the Department of Social Security would be transferred to the new Department. There can be very little doubt that ethnic communities throughout Australia have responded quite significantly to that promise by the Government. It is a promise which, like so many others, the Government has not honoured, and the ethnic communities are beginning to wake up to that. 
I do not want to stray too far from the subject, but it is pertinent to look at the Government's record in the field of providing assistance to migrants for integration. It is a quite lamentable record. The Government has not used the moneys allocated in the Hayden Budget and it has not significantly increased them in this Budget. The ethnic community organisations are crying out for the money. As the Department of Social Security admits in its own report, there is a long waiting list of voluntary agencies needing grants under the migrant social worker grantinaid scheme, and the Government has not responded to their pleas. Positions have remained vacant. At the same time, the strict conditions laid down in that scheme whereby only social workers can be employed and not welfare workers have meant that many of the positions have not been filled and many useful people who could be employed by the agencies have not been employed. 
There is one small element of these estimates that relates to ethnic affairs. If honourable members look at its treatment, they will see what regard this Government has for the ethnic communities in Australia. I refer to the allocation for the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. Honourable members will recall that last year the Racial Discrimination Act was passed by the Parliament. This was a very significant achievement. It marked an aspiration of this Parliament for greater equality for everybody in the country. One of the things that it did most significantly was to abolish discrimination based, amongst other things, on ethnic origins. The appointment to the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations was of a man who had a distinguished background in working with ethnic communities in this country. The creation of that Office and the appointment of this man to that position raised significantly the hopes of ethnic communities that positive discrimination in their favour may at last take place and that a good deal of discrimination that took place so unfairly in the community would be stopped. 
If honourable members look at the allocation in this Budget for the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, they will see that there is no increase whatsoever over the allocation for last year. The Office is at best to stand in place. The allocation is static. There will be no increase in the effectiveness of this Office. This action will frustrate the quite legitimate aspirations of the ethnic communities throughout Australia. People know of this Office's existence. They know of the qualities of the man appointed to it and they have great expectations. It is one area that comes within the responsibility of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  The Office has been shifted from the responsibility of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  to the responsibility of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It is the one part of his Department that relates to ethnic affairs and he would be very well advised to look to beefing up its resources and to making available a real and effective service to ethnic communities in Australia through that office. 
Honourable members have spoken about the effect of immigration on unemployment and about the priorities of this Government. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  made a particularly useful contribution to the whole question of the morality of immigration. One of the things that we should not overlookthe Minister should not overlook this since at least he has some kind of nominal responsibility for ethnic affairs- is the morale of ethnic communities in this country. There can be very little doubt that the great majority of the members of ethnic communities are very much concerned about the immigration program that this Government is now about to undertake. They are concerned about its size and about its emphasis. The increase in the number of assisted passages proposed-from 20 000 to 30 000- is very significant. It comes at a time when a great number of these people who have come here to make new lives for themselves are out of work. They see new people coming into the work force. I accept what the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  had to say and I accept some of what the honourable member for Prospect had to say, namely, that these immigrants will not of themselves increase unemployment. But it has a very significant effect upon morale. One of the most significant elements about the trend and the style of this program, of course, is the emphasis on persons who already speak English, and particularly the promotional activities in Great Britain to which the Minister himself chose to give so much emphasis. I represent in this place a constituency in which a great number of persons came from countries where English is not the language and who arrived here without the ability to speak English. These people have now, for the most part, developed that skill very well. There is a tremendous resentment against the acceptance of the idea that somehow better migrants will be those persons who have had an opportunity earlier on in life to work in the English language and to learn in the English language. Of course, the point is that very many people came to this country from non-English speaking countries. They never had a chance to learn English. But when they have had that chance, they have learnt it very well. They have certainly adapted extremely well to the requirements of the work place in this country. The Minister should not be in any doubt that amongst the huge number of the ethnic communities in Australia there is a tremendous resentment against his emphasis on these promotional activities in English-speaking countries and particularly in Great Britain. In saying that, I do not mean for one moment to denigrate persons who have come here from the British Isles. That is not my point. My point is to draw to the attention of the Committee and the Minister the very significant effect this has on the morale of ethnic communities for which he is at least nominally responsible. When he is developing proposals for which he does have some direct ministerial responsibility, such as immigration plans, he should have some care to take these factors into account. 
Looking again at the Minister's responsibilities directly for immigration, it would be mealy-mouthed to speak in a debate such as this without drawing attention to the very real concern felt about the performance of his Department in several significant areas. In our system of responsible government, the Minister has to take responsibility for that. It may be that in times past no great demands were made on the abilities of the officers in the Department of Immigration to respond quickly on difficult policy decisions. But as the Minister will be aware, honourable members, particularly honourable members from this side of the chamber such as myself and the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  have a very significant load of applications for entry into Australia for permanent residence of persons from the Lebanon, persons who are in the Lebanon and persons who have managed to escape from the Lebanon. I have found it most unsatisfactory in giving guidance to these people that the Department and the Minister in his responses are unable to be more frank. In one of the recent debates on this subject in this place, the Minister not unfairly, said that we should never raise the expectations amongst the Lebanese community in Australia that everybody who can escape from the Lebanon will be able to come to Australia. That is fair enough. But we certainly ought to be able, for the comfort of persons in this country who have relatives in the Lebanon or who have relatives who have escaped from the Lebanon, to give a much clearer indication than the Minister has been doing of the prospects of success. It simply has not been good enough. The Australian Embassy in Beirut closed in March. The Minister made a statement in April about interim arrangements, particularly those relating to Syria, which were in operation until the end of June. But those arrangements received wide currency in the Lebanese community. Many of those people still think that they are on foot. The next proposals were not developed until September. But we had quickly in succession a couple of new changes in policy. The new changes are to be welcomed. But the reactions were much too slow. The selling of the Government's policies has been done very poorly. The communication with the Lebanese community in this country has not been good enough. I am afraid that it reflects a lack of contact with the very real fears of these people about their relatives' position in the Lebanon and about those who have escaped. The other point I touch on briefly is the administration of the amnesty for illegal immigrants. The Minister will be aware that a number of members from this side of the chamber have been very dissatisfied about the even-handedness with which the amnesty has been administered. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. I refer to the answer he gave yesterday to a question asked by the honourable member for St George about legal aid in New South Wales. Does the Attorney-General agree that the most vital funds provided for legal aid in New South Wales are those appropriated by this Parliament for expenditure by the Australian Legal Aid Office? Did he decline to proceed last financial year with the planned opening of Australian legal aid offices at no less than 10 places in New South Wales? Did the Government last financial year reduce by more than $2m the amount allocated for expenditure on matters referred to legal practitioners by that Office? How does he reconcile those decisions with his professed concern for the effective delivery of legal aid services in New South Wales? 
Following that bombast, it is not difficult to agree with the sentiments expressed by both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  Both men have for many years past, certainly during the 3 years of the Labor Government and for many years before that, been two of the few people in public life who have struggled seriously to develop policies for inter-governmental relations in Australia, not as some abstract concept of political science but as a way of delivering services to people, a dynamic way of providing services to people. Let us look at this first legislative offering of the Fraser federalism. It is the first one, after 10 months of government, that the Government has come up with- the Advisory Council for Intergovernment Relations. Both Government speakers- the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)-  referred to its American origins. I wonder how much they know about it. I suspect that they know precisely as much as does the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
The Prime Minister, in his curious speech on 23 September, talked about the Commission in the United States having been of great assistance in improving the American Federation. Has any? body heard that expression before- the American Federation? Never. The name of the country is the United States of America. It is quite often referred to as the Union. It is occasionally referred to as a code word by conservatives as the Republic and occasionally by people of a more liberal manner as the Nation. Lord Bryce wrote a book called  The American Commonwealth.  But the American Federationnever. This is the first time the expression has been used. It exhibits how much the Prime Minister knows about history, how much he knows about this organisation on which he has modelled his new jewel of federalism. 
The Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in the United States is a presidential advisory commission. If one looks through any index on Washington, if one looks through something like the definitive Congressional Quarterly  Index to Washington  one will see that it gets precisely half an inch in a volume of 1000 pages. If one looks at any of the standard texts on American politics and the American political system, if it is a very detailed work one may find the Commission footnoted. It is absolute nonsense to say that it is in any way an influential body in the workings of the American system. It has been thrown out today as some sort of snippet from the Government to put something into legislation so that the Government can say: 'There, look. Aren't we great federalists?' The origins suggest that the body in fact does not have much influence in the United States and, as both the Leader and the Deputy Leader on this side of the House have said, it is unlikely to have a great deal of influence in this country either. 
The Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations may never get to the starting gate. If one looks at the proposed section 8 (5) of what will become the Act, one will see that it is going to need 4 States to participate. Queensland has already said that it is not going to participate. It is not hard to imagine one of the other States withdrawing. So Government members should not waste too much hot air in saying that this is essential to the federalism policy. It may just fail. It may never come to fruition. The Leader of the Opposition spoke at some length about the difficulties that the Premier of Queensland had with this body and his reservations about a body which might conceivably pass on the requirements of local government. He said that the Premier was determined, as a centralist at State level, to stop local government responsibilities being examined dispassionately by anybody. The Leader of the Opposition quite rightly painted the Premier of Queensland as a conservative in this area who was unwilling to have this kind of examination carried on. But if one looks further at the transcript one will see that the villains are not simply persons like the Premier of Queensland. They include people who stand in the shadows, people who are not even in this House- people like  Senator Carrick,  the man who stands behind this whole phoney federalism, the man who wants to wind down the responsibility of this Parliament for everything that can make the lives of people in this country better. If one looks at the transcript when  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  put his reservations about the Advisory Council examining requests from local government,  Senator Carrick  said: 
This Premiers Conference decides the objectives and the jobs that it does. 
Then  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the Prime Minister: 
Matters come to this body to decide what should be referred to it. 
That is suitably ungrammatical. 
That is the safeguard. That was agreed at the last meeting. 
The Premier of Queensland may have looked at the proposed workings of the Council more closely than  Senator Carrick  and the Prime Minister have. In the legislation one will see in clause 4 that the Council does have responsibility, subject to the directions of the Premiers Conference, to look at matters relating to inter-government co-operation and to make recommendations thereon. It is clause 5 which refers to the requests from the Premiers Conference. Clause 4 gives the Council the right of its own volition, subject to directions of the Premiers Conference, which presumably would be in the nature of guidelines, to look at these matters. So  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  just might be right. 
The Premiers Conference which is referred to in the legislation is also a peculiar reference. It will be seen in the definition that it is not the Premiers Conference as we understand it, it is in fact the Prime Minister and the Premiers of the participating States. So we could have a situation where two of the States are excluded from the definition of the Premiers Conference for the purpose of this legislation. If one looks at clause 5 of the legislation one will see how ridiculous is the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Denison that such stalwart fellows as the Premier of New South Wales, the Premier of South Australia and the Premier of Tasmania would be party to seeing that the fears of local government about its access to revenues were not put to this Council, that they would somehow frustrate local government. They will not have the chance. There has to be a majority and everybody knows that the majority will be the conservative States. They will not have the opportunity to make the request to the Council. 
Let us have a look at the composition of this Council- the jewel of federalism. One of the most peculiar things, of course, is that once again, as the Leader of the Opposition remarked, we are not told who is going to be on the Council. We are given a description of the sorts of persons who are going to be on it. It is important to realise that to an extent this is an intergovernmental body, which makes it a significantly different body from the body in the United States on which it is supposedly modelled. Both may be bipartisan, but as anybody familiar with the history of this country ought to know, the problems that occur in relations between governments in this country are institutional because we have different governments. This body will simply put those problems in to a Council. It is an inter-governmental body. One of the things which is not clear is whether the members of Parliament who are to be appointed to it are in the main to be Ministers or shadow Ministers or are likely to be backbenchers. It is not clear whether it is likely to be a body like the Inter-parliamentary Union or the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, related particularly to functions within Australia. Those matters are not clear at all. 
Of course, there is a reference to the 5 citizens who are not members of Parliament, and they are to be drawn from different sections of the Australian community. I would bet that predictably no less than three of those 5 citizens will be members of boards of public companies in Australia of whom no one in this House has ever heard except a few privileged persons on the other side. There will be the usual suggestion that these people are non-political appointments because they have never participated publicly in politics and have no overt partisan affiliation. It will be back to the 1949-1972 show all over again. There may be one token trade unionist or perhaps someone from the universities. Who knows, they may even appoint a woman. But among the 5 prominent citizens, including especially the  chairman,  you can bet your life there are going to be these grey faceless men who make their deals with the Cabinet in the boardrooms out of sight of the public. They will be responsible men, men who always surface as the men of great public stature and independence, but who also happen to run companies that contribute hundreds of thousands of dollars to the Liberal and National Country Parties. 
-If they have not got knighthoods when they are appointed they will get them afterwards. In fact, that could be one of the attractions of the appointment. It would short circuit the usual route of doing charity work and working your way up through the Order of the British Empire from one level to another. You might become a knight bachelor much quicker or even a knight of the order of the bunyip. The Advisory Council on Intergovernment Relations is to inquire into intergovernment co-operation. Again, honourable members opposite have not told us what intergovernment co-operation is. If they look at the legislation, they will see it defined as including inter-government co-ordination also. What nonsense! What spirit impels these men opposite to enter Parliament? Do not they have any thoughts about these matters themselves? Why do they come to Canberra? Why do they stand for Parliament at election time unless they are prepared to come out with specific policies about how this country ought to be governed and about what is an appropriate function? The word 'appropriate' is a code word. There is no such thing as appropriate' and 'proper'. They are value judgments every time. It is about time that honourable members opposite realised that the people out there in the electorate have woken up to the fact that when the Prime Minister uses those words, he is using them as an excuse to shed the involvement of his Government and to stop this Parliament allocating funds for the real human needs of people. Real federalism is not about crummy pieces of paper like this Bill. It is about how we get governments to work for the good of the nation and for the good of individuals. This is a dynamic proposition. 
-The honourable member for Sturt who interjects will not have an opportunity to interject in the Thirty-first Parliament because he will not be here. He will not be here because of the sorts of things about which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was talking. Both the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition have talked about the potential weaknesses of this Council and how no one on the Opposition side objects to it. However, they have indicated that it is unlikely to achieve anything by way of federalism. Federalism is politics at work. Federalism is what the Labor Government delivered between 1972 and 1975. It is schemes such as the area improvement program and the Australian Assistance Plan. Honourable members opposite laugh. But I advise them when they return to their electorates to look at the Budget Papers to see what funds are available. I dare say that the honourable member for Sturt can balance his cheque book better than I can because he has a bit more to balance. But if he looks at the public accounts of this country, unless he has absolutely no ability with arithmetic, he will see that the position goes beyond that total figure. When will the silly fellows opposite stop talking about allocating $140m for local government purposes as opposed to the untied grants of $80m made available by Labor? They should look at the bottom line. That gives the real story. The bottom line tells us that this year the Liberal-National Country Party Government will allocate less than $200m for local government whereas Labor last year allocated nearly $2 80m. That is what federalism is all about. That is why local government bodies are aware of the humbug that honourable .members opposite spout in this House. The idea is that somehow the Government washes its hands by pushing off these matters for consideration by a Council. Let us hear honourable members opposite now put forward their proposals about how Australia should be governed. We saw what happened under the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when he had one  of the  most dynamic ministeries in Australia, one that helped fulfil the aspirations of the Australian people which had been held back for so long- for 23 years of Liberal-National Country Party misrule. 
One of the things that the Prime Minister said in his curious second reading speech was that the setting up of this Council would promote discussion which would dispel the notion that all wisdom came from the centre. Really, his speech writers have to improve. They must vary their language. Let us get something new. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition went through item by item the kind of programs that meant federalism or inter-governmentilism, which I think is a better word, at work in Australia from 1972 to 1975. It meant not simply money; it meant also the way in which services were delivered and the involvement of local communities. We do not hear the members of the National Country Party interjecting in this debate. They sat silent in the House when the majority of their Government Party coalition denied access to the Grants Commission for rural local government authorities. They know that in the rural areas, local government authorities did extremely well out of that access to the Grants Commission. They know that the topping up grants- the giving of assistance on the basis of need- was a very welcome innovation on the part of the Labor Government. It was one welcomed in their local government areas and we do not hear them objecting. 
But we hear the silly fellows opposite who were elected on the basis of this mindless slogan, Turn On the Lights' and other such ridiculous slogans. What will see honourable members opposite who are interjecting defeated will be the fact that funds available under these programs for urban public transport, national sewerage, the National Estate and the Australian Assistance Plan for local government authorities are now being made available. In my constituency, an area which does not have a great many people of tremendous personal wealth and which has a great many people of ethnic origin, the local government authorities are striving manfully. They took up the challenge thrown down to them under the Labor Government to employ the resources made available to them to develop programs to benefit those local communities. Now they are finding that the funds are not available. It is an absurd irony that in this country the Government makes funds available to voluntary agencies- to charity- to do work amongst the ethnic communities when it will not make funds available to locally elected government bodies. Those bodies ought to be challenged. They ought to be charged with doing those sorts of things. But this Government makes no funds available to them. However, it makes funds available to charities. 
What is a proper function? It is the same function regardless of who is delivering it. It is the same function regardless of whether we are talking about a democratically elected body delivering it or a body of self-appointed do-gooders. I know which I prefer and I know which every honourable member ought to prefer. The federalism policies of the Labor Government were federalism at work. It was not a phrase that meant nothing. It meant real programs. It meant cash. It meant the involvement of local resources. It meant the access of local communities directly to the revenue resources of this nation- the ones produced by legislation enacted in this Parliament. There is no greater humbug than for honourable members opposite to talk about wanting to see devolution of responsibility down to these local authorities. They never mean that. They simply mean that they want to wash their hands of responsibility for these functions which, for the first time, government started to discharge properly. It did not start to discharge them at the federal level. The Federal Government simply funded them. They were discharged as near as possible to the people who were to receive those services. 
All honourable members opposite want to do is to turn back the whole matter to the States, the States which did nothing for so long. If they truly believe in a whole separate number of independent political entities in this country, they will not come into the chamber and trumpet about the percentages of personal income tax made available to the States and the millions of dollars made available in untied grants to the States. They will give local government authorities income taxing powers. They should give such powers not just to the State parliaments but also to local government authorities. But, of course, the Treasurer would not have any of that and no rational manager of the economy would. In addition, we should not shirk from the setting of national goals in this country. The system of block grants being given in untied funds is already working to the disadvantage of many groups in Australia. The community health program is a particular example I have in mind. In the reactionary State of Queensland, people are suffering as a result of this Government not directing in general terms where those funds will go. 
Honourable members opposite also talk humbug when it comes to a matter like rural roads. If rural roads are involved, the States will be told precisely where the money is going. The State governments have no independence then. In that case, the Prime Minister does not think that States should choose between spending the money on welfare housing or on rural roads. The money goes to rural roads if the National Country Party wants it to go to rural roads. So this is humbug. Honourable members opposite are inconsistent. Their federalism policies are a sham. They cannot hide behind the erection of an Advisory Council like this to conceal it. 
It is depressing, but not especially surprising, to learn that the Fraser Government's attitude towards public funding and support of culture and the arts in Australia bears the same shortsighted, cynical and ultimately irresponsible hallmarks as do the Government's other policies such as those to do with the economy, the social welfare structure, education, migrant welfare and so many other areas. The Fraser Government in its first Budget banks on credibility it does not have by cutting back or freezing grants and then asking individuals, bodies and organisations to be patient in the hope that money will flow again in subsequent Budgets. 
If we have only the record of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to go on, the hopes of the Australian people for government assistance in this important area are certain to be dashed; only their worst fears can be fulfilled. Australians are now living in the chilling era of 'fine print' Fraser. The Prime Minister and his Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have already earned for themselves a grubby and ignoble place in the history books as the kings of the cutback. The same dead, dull and throttling hand now so tightly around the neck of the Australian Broadcasting Commission can also be felt around the jugular of the arts in Australia. 
The Prime Minister's commitment to the arts, for example, can be measured by the fact that he has delegated ministerial responsibility for this important aspect of national life to his most junior Minister. We can well imagine the desperation with which the Prime Minister must have sought to shirk this responsibility for which he had no sympathy and about which he understood nought. It may very well be that within the Ministry volunteers had to be called for and that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  who is at the table, was the only one who felt vaguely competent to take it on. We certainly know of the Minister as no Philistine, but he is the first Minister with responsibility for the arts who has not been in the Cabinet. 
Whilst applauding some of the recent proposed changes to the structure of the Australia Council, one can only be alarmed on closer examination at the likely effect of other changes to the working of the individual parts of the Australia Council structure. As anyone even faintly acquainted with the delicate but important business of arts patronage- that is government funding of the arts- would know the real danger lies in allowing the organisation to fall into the hands of cliques. By reducing the numbers of people sitting on boards administered by the Australia Council from a range of upwards of eleven to perhaps as low as six, including the  chairman,  the Government has made very real the possibility that some boards may no longer be representative but will become the playground of one or another clique. Even more alarming is the fact that the Fraser Government has reduced the number of performing artists on these boards and allowed the arts bureaucracy to increase its control and extend its influence over the individual boards. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, talked about the tighter control that it is proposed the Council should have over the individual boards. If one looks at the legislation one will see that it does not take things much further than they are already. The Council already had control of the Boards. The resolutions that established the Boards were quite able to set out the way in which the Boards would be run. This time the new section will be a little more specific but in fact it may not make much difference. The Minister talked about the Council control of the activities of the boards. Later on in the same paragraph he talked about rules and guidelines for the boards. I hope that the Minister can assure the House that it is rules and guidelines that he has in mind for the boards and not some sort of constant monitoring, constant control which would be quite inimical to the proper operations of the individual boards. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  went on at some length about the maladministration of the Australia Council and of its Boards. He really must be privy to information which has not been available to other members of this House or to the general public. He called in aid the notorious Administrative Review Committee- the Committee which for all we know may never have delivered any reportwhich is always cited by the Prime Minister in support of every dubious action.  Sir Henry  Bland is pilloried daily in this House when his name is taken in vain by Government supporters who call in aid this report, no part of which any of them can have ever seen. The Government is the only body which has seen it. The honourable member for Isaacs also talked about the McKinsey report commissioned by the Australia Council. Again, this report has not been published. The report was made available by the Council to the Government and we are informed also to  Sir Henry  Bland, but it has never been published and never been available for public information or dissection by interested members of the public. There were selective leaks. We all know the record of this Government when it comes to selective leaking. I do not have to mention anything more than the Prime Minister's disgraceful performance in relation to the Hay report and Aboriginal affairs. 
There is one other thing relevant to the administration of the Council which I think is particularly serious and which the Minister did not refer to in his second reading speech. But alas, he has been found out. Clause 9 of the Bill shows that proposed new section 17A is to be inserted into the Australia Council Act. This provides that the Council may appoint committees to assist the Council in the performance of its functions under the Act. I find it most extraordinary and curious that a new provision to set up new bodies should be inserted into the legislation. In any event there would be nothing to stop the Council establishing any committees. It does not need enabling legislation to do that, but now it will have authority to do so. The provision is expressly put in the Bill. What for? I hope the Minister will tell us something. It looks to me extremely fishy; it looks to me as if we will have committees set up for the ego of all the socialites who used so badly to manage the arts in this country and who were more interested in some excuse to dress up and have a drink and a good meal. It also looks as though it may be an excuse for committees to be established and loaded up with the Association of Cultural Freedom crowd and other dubious persons interested, so-called, in the arts. 
By placing arts funding in the deep freeze in this Budget, the Government has cut the Australia Council's grant in real terms. This decision will have immediate and unfortunate consequences for the standards, efficiences and extent of government support for the arts. As the new Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts will discover as he feels his way around his new job, many of the projects funded by the Council are labour intensive, as the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  said, and therefore extremely vulnerable to the consumer price index and wage cost-push pressures. Some performing companies now supported by the Government through the Australia Council are between 80 per cent and 90 per cent labour intensive. The Government's parsimony towards the arts in this Budget therefore represents a major cut in this light and presents a possibly insoluble problem for the artists working in those companies and for the Australia Council, which is trying to keep them alive. 
The strategy is clear. The Government is trying to starve a great many of these companies and to shed its responsibilities- responsibilities so recently and responsibly assumed by this Parliament and by the Labor Government. In his statement on 3 June the Prime Minister referred, in an uncharacteristically expressive phrase, to the 'blossoming State cultural authorities'. Can it be that he has in mind to run down some of these companies and have them taken over by State authorities? I think that the Australian Ballet School in Melbourne and the National Institute of Dramatic Art in Sydney are in grave peril. The Prime Minister has made it clear that he sees the continuing functioning of both these bodies as not being an essential part of arts funding in Australia. He has flagged very clearly that he will try to devolve these kinds of bodies to the States. 
The Fraser Government thinks so much of the arts in Australia that it has actually let its head go and spent the equivalent of 4 Queen Anne scotch whiskies per head of population on the arts through the funding of the Australia Council or, if you like, 2 double Queen Anne scotch whiskies per head of population. 
I do not know how the Prime Minister takes it. That is just under $2  per capita.  The National Country Party of Australia could get 10 bags of potato chips with it. As a percentage of the gross net expenditure the Fraser Government has lavished on the arts a magnificent 0.03 per cent of all its outlays for the next financial year. What a paltry, mean and characteristic display of philistinism on the part of this Government. Of course, one could not criticise the honourable members squatting on the Country Party benches for not falling over themselves to get into the door of the Sydney Opera House. It is their right and privilege if they tend to patronise the bar and refreshment facilities in our cultural centres rather than the centres themselves. No one will thank this Government for its meanness in this Budget. It will be rewarded only with the despair and disrespect of those working in the arts and the prospect of another grey dawn for arts funding under a Liberal-National Country Party government. The story of that Government's funding of the arts is a symphony for viola and piccolo- Fraser and Staley playing a depressing tune which no one will follow. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties are very interested in uranium enrichment but they will have nothing to do with cultural enrichment, in ensuring consistent and secure development of the cultural fabric of our nation, in the provision and consolidation of arts for the people. For this repulsive attitude they stand condemned. Surely, however, the most glaring example of the disinterest of the Liberal and National Country Parties in providing meaningful support for the arts is to be found in their failure to consider the introduction of triennial funding and automatic indexation of grants. Whilst ever the managements of the major performing companies- for instance, the Australian Opera Company, which we have read something about recently- only know what their budgets will be for one year they cannot plan programs and tours efficiently or in the best interests of the company or the Australian public. Opera companies, for example, have to plan more than a year ahead to obtain the services of major overseas artists, composers and conductors. They cannot make these plans whilst they are restricted by a conventional annual budget allocation. The consequences of this are that the larger companies continue to get an ever-increasing share of a limited arts cake to keep them alive but at the expense of smaller, grass roots companies and organisations- for example, crafts. This is because smaller organisations are less well organised, less influential and thereby less well funded. 
Another cause for concern with the arts under this Government is the abolition of the Australian authors fund and a totally inadequate Budget allocation this year of less than $700,000 for the public lending rights scheme, the rates for which were set in 1973. Everyone concerned with an equitable distribution of income from the publication of original Australian fiction, prose and poetry must wonder who will look after public lending rights and what sort of budget will be made available for this very worthy form of arts assistance in the Budget allocation for 1977-78. The scheme introduced by the Labor Government is now in real and present danger. 
With no one to speak up for it and only the Prime Minister's word that adequate funding of the scheme will continue, the public lending rights grants to authors and publishers may soon wither and die. This is typical of the whole philistine and not terribly diligent attitude of the Government towards arts funding. The Fraser Government wants only for people not to see the real effect of its cuts, to disguise those cuts as far as possible and to create and exploit as many political diversions as it can from the subject at issue. This strategy has already begun to fail. The Budget as a whole has failed to stimulate the economy as the Government promised us it would. 
With so many handouts being effected in the first session of this Parliament to the traditional hand maidens of the Liberal and National Country Parties I am amazed that the Government has hastened moves to investigate ways of stimulating private industry contributions to the arts in Australia. In the United States, the private sector contributes over $200m a year to the arts. Australia is one of the last countries in which big companies in the private sector have not been called on to come forward with some form of assistance for the arts. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  when he was Minister responsible for the arts, asked the Public Service to consider the suggestion that tax deductability be used as a carrot to tempt the private sector to make this worthwhile contribution to an important facet of national life. Only last month the Prime Minister fobbed off a question from the Leader of the Opposition about the progress of this inquiry. I understand that a private study group will present a report early next year on how this laudable aim might be achieved. 
I can only urge the Government not to delay or obfuscate this avenue of potential support for the arts which it seems, judging from the Government's general attitude to the arts, will not be forthcoming from traditional Government sources in adequate amounts in the future. At present, as a percentage of the gross national expenditure, $23m, handed out in the fashion it is handed out now, is simply not enough. We are a rich nation with a heritage of our own to build on and to cherish. If the Australian Government will not invest in that heritage, in our national culture and in the job of making the arts available to all, we have to ask who will. Nothing is so tempting to business as a tax deduction. Now that the Government has sentenced the arts in Australia to a year of financial difficulty and stagnation with this Budget allocation let us hope it will pursue with vigour and sincerity this logical and proven opportunity to contribute to a great national challenge. 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is the subject of legal aid, specifically the provision of federal funds for the establishment of legal aid commissions, an agenda item for the meeting of attorneys-general commencing tomorrow? If not, why has he not placed it there? 
It is encouraging to know that 1 1 November this year will have some redeeming features for the pensioners of Australia. The new rates of pension prescribed by the Social Services Amendment Bill will then be payable. By and large, of course, that date will be known as the anniversary of a disgraceful event in Australian history, a disgraceful event which has very much struck a blow at the hopes of pensioners. It was very interesting during the second reading debate to hear the contributions from honourable members like myself who are relatively new in this place. I refer to honourable members such as the honourable member Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  who talked against the background of expectations aroused during the 3 years of Labor Government, expectations aroused for pensioners throughout Australia. During the bad old days of the 1950s and 1960s-during the 23 years of Liberal-National Country Party government neglect of pensioners to which the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred- when persons really had to fight for these issues before they were taken for granted, these things were not looked at so simply. Expectations rose very sharply during the last 3 years. The honourable member for Petrie, to his intellectual credit, did not try to obscure the record achieved by the Labor Government in regard to pensions. He argued large economic issues. He argued questions about the size of the deficit and problems like that. But he did not deal with the real achievements of Labor during its 3 years of office. The inescapable fact is that when Labor came to power pension payments represented less than 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. When the Labor Government was dismissed by the Governor-General, they represented 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
That achievement is a considerable one. It is one for which the honourable member for Oxley can take particular satisfaction and recognition. There is no - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  No point of order arises in terms of this debate. I call the honourable member for Grayndler. 
-The honourable member may not be aware of that fact, but certainly the pensioner organisations of Australia are. They came to have their expectations in some way realised under Labor. Now they are seeing them frustrated. In the last election, the Liberal and National Country Parties' election promise was quite explicit. It was that they would index pension payments every 6 months. They stated that they would do so quickly to reflect movements in the consumer price index. The Government is not doing so. If honourable members look at clause 8 of the Bill and the mechanism the Government is inserting there, they will see that there is a considerable time lag. It is a time lag to which honourable members on this side of the chamber have made reference. It is one that means a loss of real income to pensioners. Everybody knows that in May the March quarter figures are published for the movements in the consumer price index. Pensioners are certainly aware of it. They know that the Government is not performing on its election promise in this area. 
-The honourable member interjecting made a particularly great mark on pension matters in this place when, along with all the other Liberal and National Country Party members sitting in this chamber, he voted to abolish the funeral benefit for pensioners. That is a matter of record. 
I move on to some of the more disagreeable elements in this Bill. Honourable members on this side of the chamber have referred to the fact that there is no increase in supplementary assistance. Supplementary assistance is a benefit which of itself identifies those most in need. It identifies rent-paying pensioners with very limited means indeed. They are the persons to whom we ought to be directing the resources of this country, especially in times like these, when those resources are very limited. If we are talking about need, they are the people who need help the most. There ought to be some consideration for them. There ought to be some indexation of this kind of assistance as well. It is not simply good enough to talk about basic rates of pension and to introduce an imperfect mechanism for indexing them and to ignore these other significant benefits in the Social Services Act. 
I suppose there is no other benefit which is more ignored by the Government members than the additional pension benefit for children. This is the second occasion during the life of this Parliament upon which the basic rate of pension has been increased and upon which the Government has shamefacedly ignored the very real need to increase this benefit. This is a benefit which, during the period of the Labor Government, was increased from $4 to $7.50. It is a benefit which is of real use in the community. It benefits nearly 300 000 children and some 150 000 pensioners who qualify for the additional pension benefit for children. But to judge from the record of this Government, we can expect to see the amount of this benefit remain frozen for the whole of the 3 years of the life of this Parliament. That will mean that whereas during the period of the last 2 Parliaments we saw that amount move in 3 years from $4 a child to $7.50 a child- nearly double- we will see the amount remain static during the time of this Parliament. That is simply not good enough. 
-The honourable member for Denison interjects. He really ought to be quiet. Labor did not tax that benefit. The Government is proposing to tax it. If the honourable member wants to broadcast that to the people of Australia, I am only too pleased to do it on his behalf. The additional pension benefit for children was not taxable under any legislation introduced by the Labor Government. It is now taxable under legislation introduced by the Liberal-National Country Party Government. The record on. this is very clear. If we look at all the elements, as we are in our discussion of this Bill in Committee, we will see that they do not redress the particular deficiencies pointed out during the second reading debate by honourable members on this side. The mechanism to index pensions is imperfect. Honourable members opposite ought to own up to it. They ought to acknowledge especially that, even if for some narrow economic reason, for Budget stringency or whatever it might be, they cannot live up to their election promises. But do not pretend that you are trying to perform on your election promises, because clearly you are not. The pensioners will not be gulled. They will not be fooled. Honourable members opposite take great pleaure in talking about how they do not wish pensioners to be used as a political football. Pensioners, like everybody else in this country, are part of the marketplace for politicians to pitch to. Pensioners never had it so good as under Labor. It is quite demonstrably the case that no matter how much one does for them it is unlikely that huge numbers are going to switch their allegience to Labor. 
We are not putting this case on a narrow partisan base; we are simply putting it as a matter of justice. We believe that honourable members opposite ought to perform on their election promises on the basis that some few people may have been tricked by them and they ought to act as a matter of justice. They ought not to put persons who have worked all their lives and who are now in retirement and dependent upon their pensions for their livelihood in a worse positon than wage earners who are having their wages adjusted as a result of recent movements in the consumer price index. An increase should not be delayed for those who are in most need. Especially, too, honourable members opposite ought to look at those pensioners who are most in need. 
As I said before everbody in receipt of suplementary assistance has a special need. This is clear from the very nature of the conditions by which this kind of benefit is granted. It is not good enough for the Government to talk about indexing pensions when it also does not index this kind of assistance. Not only does the Government not index this kind of assistance, but it blitherly ignores the need to adjust it from time to time. The same kind of consideration applies to the additional pension benefit for children. These benefits are of assistance to an enormous number of people. As I said, this number is increasing. There are nearly 300 000 children who are direct beneficiaries of this kind of benefit. Yet on 2 occasions in this Parliament the Government has failed to increase this benefit. We have the blithe statements that issue from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on every occasion when this matter has been raised and in particular last May when he said: 'Well, Labor never increased it every time.' Well perhaps Labor did not do so, but at least during its 3 years of government it did increase the benefit. It increased it significantly, it increased it from $4 to $7.50. It almost doubled the benefit. During this Parliament the Government looks as though it is going to be content to let the benefit remain as it is. This will not be good enough. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Education taken any steps to ascertain the needs of teachers in the schools for which it is responsible in relation to multiple copying of copyright material. 
Has the Department had discussions with State Government Departments of Education about this copying. 
3 ) Is the Department aware of the details of the system of permissions for copying of copyright material being developed by the State Department of Education in Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many offset duplicators are available for the use of teachers in schools for which the Department of Education is responsible. 
Are these duplicators used by teachers to reproduce copyright material; if so, do teachers first complete a prescribed form. 
How many electronic stencil cutters are available for the use of these teachers. 
Are these cutters used by teachers to reproduce copyright material; if so, do teachers first complete a prescribed form. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Are any instructions provided to teachers in schools Tor which the Department of Education is responsible in relation to compliance with the  Copyright Act  1 968- 1 973. 
Does the Department of Education treat an infringement of copyright by a teacher whilst performing his or her duties as a personal liability of the teacher concerned; if not, what steps has the Department taken to protect teachers from an action for infringement. 
Has the Department discussed the possible copyright liability of teachers with their unions. 
I have looked at the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department with a great deal of interest to see what kind of priorities the 
Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  has set for himself during his tenure of office. The AttorneyGeneral is a unique man. He is one of the 2 holders of that office who have resigned from a non-political public office to go into politics. He is certainly one of the persons with the greatest legal background who has ever occupied the office of Attorney-General. Therefore it is very interesting to look at the sorts of things he has been interested in developing in his tenure of this portfolio. I went back to the debates of last year to see what interested him in the debate on the Attorney-General's estimates in 1975. Not surprisingly, at that time he indicated that he wanted to talk mostly about the enforcement of the law on the Constitution. What he said was very bad law and very bad politics and in the course of saying it he took a few side swipes at  Sir Isaac  Isaacs which, of course, also was the habit of one of his Liberal-Country Party predecessors as Attorney-General. 
The present Attorney has been regaling us here constantly for the past several weeks and has sought to revive debate about the events of last November, something which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and all honourable members on this side of the House are only too keen to do. In the course of last week the Attorney-General replied to a question, solicited from the most obscure corner of his back benches, by referring to a precedent' when he was talking about an article in a learned journal. That was pretty extraordinary for an Attorney-General as steeped in the law as the present Attorney-General is. 
During the Estimates debates last year a great many speakers talked of legal aid, particularly the achievement of the Labor Government in establishing the Australian Legal Aid Office. Not surprisingly the present Attorney-General did not refer to that office. That could have been because at that time, in the same debate on the same Budget, his Leader, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  had pledged to abolish that office. That is one pledge by the Prime Minister that we can all heed. It certainly is one that we can believe he will put into action. He certainly will abolish the Australian Legal Aid Office; his Attorney has set about doing it for him. 
Before I get off the point about the Constitution, I am delighted to see that in at least one item appearing in these estimates there is a reduction in cost, attributable no doubt to these constitutional affairs. In division 170.2.1, relating to the High Court travel expenses, including car hire for the Chief Justice, there is a reduction of $50,000.I assume that this is because cars are not going to be waiting around Admiralty House quite so much this financial year as they were last financial year. 
Returning now to the subject of legal aid, this was traversed in the most absurd fashion by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  He talked about the magnificent legal aid facilities provided in the States. Before the Labor Government came to power and established the Australian Legal Aid Office in 1973, legal aid hardly existed in this country. This was the result of 23 years of LiberalNational Country Party governments in this Parliament which said that legal aid was no concern of the Federal Parliament. We still will not find a commitment from this Government or from the Attorney General to fund indefinitely the legal aid commissions which he urges the States to establish. The record of the LiberalCountry Party governments in the provision of legal aid was absolutely lamentable. The Australian Legal Aid Office was the most popular of institutions established by the Labor Government. This was established in every poll. What is much more important is that its need was established by the number of persons who came to it for assistance. That very fact established its need and showed its usefulness. It was an unqualified success. 
What has been the record of this Government in setting about dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office? One of the first acts of the Attorney General was to impose a harsh new means test on those people who were seeking assistance. The amount of disposable income in their hands was reduced to $40. The effect of that reduction, combined with inflation, is to reduce by about onethird the amount of means available to persons who formerly were eligible for assistance under the Australian Labor Party Government from the Australian Legal Aid Office. So straight away the AttorneyGeneral denied access to a great many needy people who had taken their problems to this office. 
Also, one of the AttorneyGeneral's first acts was to stop the expansion of offices for which this Parliament had appropriated money in 1975 and for which every member of the Liberal and National Country Parties who then sat in the House and in the Senate had voted. Immediately the AttorneyGeneral held up the expansion of these offices. In my State of New South Wales no fewer than 10 offices which it was projected to open last financial year were, in the mealy mouthed words of the AttorneyGeneral, postponed. In fact, they will never be established. At the same time, the staff which was to be recruited was not recruited. This is the record of the AttorneyGeneral in setting about dismantling the Australian Legal Aid Office. Yet, if we look at these estimates, we will find a peculiar thing and that is that the cost of forms to be used by the Australian Legal Aid Office has doubled this year. That cost has doubled precisely because where this office is established, it is having to waste its time administering this ridiculously harsh and unconscionable means test which the AttorneyGeneral has imposed. 
Last year the AttorneyGeneral reduced by over $2m the amount available for payment to private practitioners for cases referred by the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Attorney exhibits the most extraordinary casual attitude to the whole question of legal aid. He never misses an opportunity to deprecate the inactivity, as he terms it, of the AttorneyGeneral in New South Wales,  Mr Walker. 
-We hear from honourable members like the honourable member for Parramatta and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  who is interjecting, of the wonderful facilities available for legal aid in New South Wales. Those honourable members must be joking. It is true that in New South Wales the facilities available are much better than they are in any other State. But they are still an extraordinary mish-mash. As the Attorney General reluctantly admitted the other day, by far the most important element of funding for legal aid in every jurisdiction throughout Australia is the provision of funds appropriated by this Parliament. 
-The honourable member  for  Swan interjects by saying: 'Stolen from the taxpayers'. It makes no difference whether the taxes are collected by this Parliament or by State parliaments. The same amount is payable to meet the same needs if we acknowledge them as genuine and legitimate. Quite plainly the honourable member for Swan does not. The Attorney exhibits the most casual attitude. He has said that it is none of his business whether this matter was on the agenda for the meeting of AttorneysGeneral held last week. He thinks it rests with the New South Wales Government to bring this matter up. This is not a matter just for New South Wales. It is important for every jurisdiction. The honourable member for Parramatta quite absurdly and I think to the great embarrassment of the AttorneyGeneral talked about the number of schemes available in 
New South Wales and the sources of advice. To his credit, one of the things he talks about is the need to rationalise the number of places to which one needs to go to get legal advice. The Attorney-General knows how absurd it is to talk about this multiplicity in any way helping people. It confuses them. It ensures that legal aid delivery is that much less effective. 
One of the other things the Attorney-General has done about the Legal Aid Office which is even more sinister is in relation to the costing records maintained by the Legal Aid Office which kept a track of the cost of the matters being handled and which showed quite clearly the effectiveness of salaried services in delivering legal aid. These records have been discontinued. Even if we accept it as an ideological assumptionas the colleagues of the Attorney-General on the back benches do- that somehow private legal aid is better, let us look at the performance of the Government in the Australian Capital Territory where it cannot dodge the responsibility. In the A.C.T. the appropriation for the Australian Capital Territory Law Society's legal aid scheme has been cut by one-third. The record of the Attorney-General is just not good enough. In legal aid he has cut off the vision of greater equality before the law for huge numbers of people. 
Let us look at what else he has done. He has imposed a $60 fee, a divorce tax, a revenue opportunity out of people's misery. It would have been a great deal more if there had not been an uproar as a result of the leak of his intentions. His intention was to impose the fee on every Family Court application, not simply on those for dissolution of marriage. But he was stopped by a prior news leak. The Attorney-General abuses his office by giving phony legal opinions in relation to agreements with the States such as the agreements about hospital operating costs and the railway transfer for South Australia and Tasmania. This is quite deplorable. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is obscene to hear again from the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  these protestations about their being the only persons in this chamber concerned about the condition of people in eastern Europe. There is nothing sadder or more mischievous than the pretence that in some way they are greater fighters for freedom than members of the Australian Labor Party. The suggestion that by making speeches in this chamber they will advance by one day the liberation of eastern Europe is a sad deception. They would do better to parade such stupidities before an audience of the Assembly of Captive European Nations or wherever else they might get an audience much more receptive to that sort of nonsense. They would do better to heed the words of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  a man who knows something about the workings of this Parliament and a man who has some regard for its traditions and for the traditions of democracy in this country. I do not want to go over this point again, except to say that every member of this House who stood at the last election in the interests of the Liberal Party of Australia or the National Country Party of Australia committed the most indecent exposure- quite as indecent as anybody in shiny jackboots at Nurenberg. They all stood for the suppression of democracy, and they will stand forever condemned. 
-No one more than the honourable member for Griffith who is taking a frivolous point of order yet again. 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Is it correct that, arising out of a recommendation of the Bland Administrative Review Committee, the Public Service Board has been asked to investigate what is known as the main user concept in relation to the deployment of social workers throughout the Australian Public Service? Is the Government aware of the grave disquiet that many social workers in the Public Service feel about the implications of such a proposal being implemented? If so, has the Board also been requested to explore and report on alternatives to the main user concept? 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  might very well have been quoting from the editorials in tomorrow's newspapers applauding his remarks. He said that it is difficult to treat the motion moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  with great respect. I say that the issue of the ownership and control of television and broadcasting stations has always been regarded as a legitimate area of concern in this country by governments of every political persuasion. The difference is that the members of the Liberal and National Country Party governments have looked at broadcasting and television in isolationin a vacuum, as it were.  Sir Alan  Hulme said when he was Postmaster-General that the ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act were essential because they covered an important field of mass communication and were concerned with the effects of monopolisation. 
The Bill presently before the House seeks to look at mass communication in the whole to ensure that we have diverse avenues of genuine communication in Australia, which has always been the objective of the Australian Labor Party. It is interesting at least to see that the Minister has grasped the nettle and looked at the relationship of newspaper companies to broadcasting and television stations, even if he has arrived at a rather curious conclusion as to the benign effect of that influence. If one looks through the legislative history of the control and ownership provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act since the early 1960s one will see how remarkable it is that Liberal and National Country Party members of this Parliament and thenMinisters have in the past refused to look at the interaction of newspapers and their effect upon radio and television stations. The position in Australia today remains as it was in 1965. When discussing amendments to the Act then the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  said: 
If we examine this mass media in its widest ramifications we And that the same people to a large extent control our daily newspapers, our broadcasting stations and our television channels. 
He went on to say: 
Many organisations claim that there should be no censorship in Australia, but with our mass media we have a more dangerous censorship developing. Here people who are beholden to nobody can refuse to publish any item of news, can refuse to publicise anything that might happen, can refuse to allow people to appear on their television programs, and if they so decide can virtually control the government of this country. This is a dangerous type of censorship. It is the type of censorship against which we should be safeguarding ourselves. 
It is remarkable how little the situation has changed in the last 10 years. In 1960, when amendments were first introduced into the Broadcasting and Television Act to give effect to the then Government's policy in relation to the limitation of television licences, the late Right Honourable Arthur Calwell referred to the fact that any pettifogging lawyer could get around the restrictions that the Government was imposing. If one looks at the amendments that were required in 1965 and 1969 one will see that it is clear that that is what happened. In fact at that time- in 1960-  Mr Calwell  referred to an opinion given by the then Attorney-General  2  years previously to the Herald and Weekly Times organisation which pointed the way around the amendments that the Government was then introducing. The Government always has been less than sincere in its interest in this area of ownership and control. At every stage it has sought to amend the Act after the horse has bolted. During the period since 1960 we have seen an increase in newspaper ownership of the broadcasting and television stations in Australia. 
It is simply not good enough for the Minister to say that the Bill that the honourable member for Blaxland has introduced seeks to limit newspaper ownership in relation to television and broadcasting stations. The Government seeks to do that. It will not allow newspaper companies which have existing interests to increase those interests. We are taking the situation one step further and are suggesting that one cannot look at this field of mass communication in isolationthat one has to look at it in the whole- and quite clearly the interest of newspaper companies in broadcasting and television is inhibiting the development of communication in Australia. 
 One of the most insidious effects of the ownership by newspaper companies of television and radio stations is the fact that the television and radio stations have not sought to become serious commentators on public affairs. They have never sought to compete with the newspapers in what ought to be a legitimate area for their concern. The Government concedes that it is concerned about monopolisation in the field of broadcasting and television, but it must look beyond that to what has happened in the whole area of mass communication- the inhibitions throughout the whole area. The contrast, of course, is with the record of the Labor Government. In its 3 years in power the Australian Labor Party sought very much to increase the opportunities for communication in radio and television. It introduced programs for imaginative reforms in the area of community radio. It established new Australian Broadcasting Commission radio stations. Most importantly, it introduced ethnic radio. 
Paranthetically I should say that ethnic radio is a very good example of what happens when one gets broadcasting and television stations going into areas that have been traditionally served by newspapers. The interest exhibited in ethnic radio was resented tremendously by the ethnic language newspapers. They saw the captive market that they had being competed for more intelligently than it had been in the past. We ought to be able to see that kind of development taking place throughout the communication area in the English language field as well so that this influence of newspapers is diluted. 
Every time we have talked in this Parliament about amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act which are designed to limit increases in the ownership and control of television and radio stations, every PostmasterGeneral in Liberal and National Country Party governments has wept crocodile tears about how the horse has bolted and how the Government could not possible apply the legislation retrospectively. There is nothing improper in introducing any legislative measure which involves divestiture. It is a necessary consequence of a great many orders made under laws passed by this Parliament. There would be nothing wrong, nothing inequitable, in insisting that within a reasonable time newspaper companies which have a large financial interest in the broadcasting and television stations in this country be required to divest them. That would be in the interests of encouraging mass communication in Australia. 
The nub of the matter is that freedom of the Press implies that anyone can publish his views. Thus one cannot have unlimited numbers of newspapers. The present concentration of ownership is contrary to this spirit since quite reasonably any media outlet reflects the interests, views and values of that proprietor. Thus the concentration of present ownership in a few hands necessarily limits the range of views publishedthe antithesis of freedom of the Press. The intention of our Bill is to ensure a greater diversity of ownership by prohibiting present owners of newspapers from taking over even more outlets and increasing their influence. Lord Thomson of Fleet- he should know something about the ownership of newspapers and television stations -said that the ownership of a television licence was a licence to print money, and we can understand every newspaper baron in this country being quite interested in that. We in this Parliament ought to be more concerned about the debilitating effect of that on the freedom of communication within this country. There can be no doubt about that. 
The Government conceded up to a certain point because it has set its face against the newspaper companies which already have an interest in broadcasting and television stations increasing that interest, especially where they are in a position of control. We say that is simply not good enough; that the Government must look beyond that and must insist that the same newspaper companies divest themselves of their interest and stop inhibiting the development of broadcasting and television in Australia. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications was grasping at straws when he suggested that one of the unfortunate repercussions of the passage of this Bill would be that it would create tremendous employment instability in a time of great economic difficulty. That seems to me to be a most curious argument. In fact it is the exact reverse of what is always put as being one of the major advantages of having a community of interest between newspaper owners and the owners of television and radio stations. It is always suggested then that we somehow have a great economy of resources of manpower; that we use the same news sources and that this is supposed to be a good thing. I do not think it is a good thing. I think there is nothing more despicable and nothing more ludicrous than the spectacle we have of certain well-known newspaper identities putting on these curious socalled public affairs programs which appear during convenient times of electoral advantage to the conservative parties, when we have these marionette shows, when we have one man standing on camera interviewing a prominent politician and we have someone standing off camera priming him, and then when the interviewee goes off camera we have the  eminence grise  coming in off camera and explaining what it really was that the interviewee meant to say. If anybody does not recognise the faces of the Packer organisation they must be very dull indeed. That is a direct result of the newspaper companies influencing and owning television and radio stations. 
It may not be too much to remark at this time, quite appropriately, on the sly conditioning that goes on every day in Australia in these insidious talk-back shows on radio and television. Other persons in the community have had occasion in the last week or so to comment on them. I think every honourable member here would have to concede that those shows are a prime example of what happens when you have this insidious influence of newspaper owners owning a radio station. If you look at the so-called personalities you will see that they are the same dull personalities who start off as C grade journalists doing the most hack chores on newspapers and who are eventually built up to become radio personalities. Why do we not set the radio and television industries free from this influence of newspapers? Why do we not allow them to develop in competition with newspapers as another diverse outlet for the communication of ideas throughout Australia? The Bill deserves the support of the House. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill the House is of the opinion that it should provide a Federal Court with original jurisdiction in all matters referred to in Section 75 of the Constitution and laws made by the Parliament'. 
The Opposition does not oppose the establishment of the Federal Court of Australia. It welcomes the legislation. It is a tidying-up piece of legislation. By constituting a Court with 2 divisions- namely, the Industrial Division and the General Division- it will make for a much mo.e rational organisation of the existing judicial structure. Nonetheless, the Opposition, while not opposing the establishment of the Court, does have some reservations about the legislation and about the timidity of the Government in its proposals for this Court. The Opposition does not propose to be churlish, simply because when the Government was in Opposition it opposed every attempt to establish the Superior Court. The opposition, albeit somewhat silent, of a lame duck Solicitor-General to the establishment of that Court now has been replaced with the rooster-like boasting of an Attorney-General who is looking forward to a new nest for his wellfeathered friends. The Attorney-General dismissed in 2 sentences the rejection of the Superior Court legislation by the Senate and the opposition, which was led by him, of the Liberal and National Country Parties. 
For the benefit of honourable members, I should like to take them through some of the arguments about the Superior Court legislation raised by the Attorney-General when he was in Opposition. I must apologise to honourable members for not being able to lead them through these objections in any particularly logical order but it does not appear to me that the objections can be fitted into such a frame. However, I will go through them at least in the order in which them were raised at that time by the AttorneyGeneral. The only consistent thread which runs through them is the exhibition of the extremely conservative mind which will resist change at all cost. The first objection raised by the AttorneyGeneral, then only the private member for Wentworth, was the jurisdiction being granted to the proposed court in relation to associated matters by clause 23 of the Superior Court of Australia Bill. In relation to that the AttorneyGeneral said: 
Clause 23 of the Bill is designed to give the court jurisdiction in associated matters. It is a dragnet provision aimed at attempting to overcome a problem which possibly cannot be overcome, namely, of giving the court jurisdiction in matters which are not matters of federal jurisdiction. 
I invite the attention of the Attorney and of all honourable members to clause 32 of the Bill to establish the Federal Court of Australia. If one looks at that one will see that the wording of this proposed section is almost identical with that of the Superior Court Bill. The Attorney was clutching at straws at that time. Now he realises that that kind of provision is necessary in relation to any legislation for federal courts, even that which is as timid as this. 
The Attorney went on to object to the proposed Superior Court on the basis that it would create an additional court in an already complicated judicial system and that this would involve increased expense. On that point, I think it is worth referring to something that  Sir Garfield  Barwick had to say in relation to the original proposals for a new Federal Superior Court. In the Federal Law Review, in an article with which many honourable members in the chamber will be familiar, he said: 
Judicial work requires no fewer judges, and no less court space and staff, if it bears a federal rather than a State label, and is provided for separately. 
One can turn that on its head just as logically and say that judicial work requires no fewer judges and no less court space and staff if it bears a State rather than a federal label and is provided for jointly. Again, the argument is without any foundation whatsoever.  Sir Garfield  Barwick could see through it. It is odd that the AttorneyGeneral should be concerned about the complexities of the judicial system when his brothers in the conservative administration in several States have never done anything to clear them up. I think it is a matter of record that in respect of simplifying procedures in courts and administrative tribunals the Federal Parliament and successive Federal Governments have a much better record. In fact, if we are concerned about the complexities of judicial systems we can be assured that they will receive better attention more expertly and more often in this Parliament than they will in any of the State legislatures. 
The Attorney-General went on to object to the Superior Court on the basis that physical accessibility of courts was very desirable in relation to judicial proceedings. I agree with that, every honourable member here agrees with it. The Attorney talked about how the Superior Court could not sit in large provincial towns in the States. Again, that too was just not a genuine objection. If the Attorney looks at the structure of every State Supreme Court in Australia with the exception of the Queensland Court, he will see that they are all centred in the State capitals and that they all proceed on circuit through the provinces, as was then proposed for the Superior Court- and the Attorney well knew this at the time- and as he now quite properly proposes that the Federal Court of Australia should do. The next objection raised by the AttorneyGeneral in 1974 was to the tenure of judges. He said that we would have a system whereby in some States judges would retire at 65 or 70 and in the Federal Court judges would be appointed for life. Of course we would have had that system, and the position remains the same, as the Attorney well knows. Conservative members have been forced at last to place on the agenda of the Australian Constitutional Convention the question of the retiring age forjudges, and it is to be hoped that the Attorney-General pushes the Government to produce a proposal for a referendum on that question. But for the time being the objection he raised to the Superior Court legislation stands in relation to his own legislation now before the House. It is not an objection that I think is significant but it is one which might point up the bona fides in 1974 of the AttorneyGeneral. 
The Attorney-General then sought in 1974, as conservatives quite often do, very selectively to deprecate developments in the United States. He referred also to the different law officers proposed under the Superior Court legislation by comparison with those existing in most States. He talked about the fact that we were going to have marshals of the Superior Court rather than sheriffs. I can understand the Attorney's conservatism. Quite often members of the Liberal and National Country Parties like to go back further, and I suppose one could antedate the term 'sheriff' to that of 'marshal' by a couple of centuries, indeed to before the Norman Conquest. It might then have some more English connection which is appealing to him, but of course it is a nonsense. Who cares what the officers are called? The Attorney-General was at that time being quite flippant, one would hope, in talking as he did when he said: 
There will be the creation of a parallel system of law enforcement officers- marshals who rush in with a federal badge as distinct fom sheriffs who rush in with a State badge. 
I know that occasionally he has to play down to the Country Party benches and to those Liberal Party back benchers who can watch only westerns. The position now is that there will be sheriffs rushing in with a federal badge as opposed to sheriffs rushing in with a State badge. What a great distinction. What difference does it make? If the Attorney is concerned about standardising the designations of court officers throughout the country he has a long way to go. Again, it was a spurious objection. He was grasping at straws, as the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who is interjecting, knows. 
The next and most curious objection raised by the Attorney-General in 1974, although in 1975 he went further, was when he had this to say: 
Covering clause 5 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act which says that the law of the Commonwealth shall be binding on all State Courts, is an expression of the idea that all the law shall be enforceable in the State courts. 
The Attorney-General has changed ground since then. Now we have a measure introduced by him on behalf of the Government which contradicts that proposition, a proposition which would be supported by no honest lawyer in Australia and a proposition which is so demonstrably false that I do not think even at that time the AttorneyGeneral could have meant it seriously. He said that all laws shall be enforceable in the State courts, but in the related measures we are debating here we are talking about industrial matters, at least a good part of the bankruptcy law, trade practices and the judicial review of administrative decisions. All these matters are to be litigated in federal courts and not in State courts. Only a few minutes later the Attorney went on to argue that specialised federal jurisdiction which needs federal courts should be vested in the Industrial Court. He has changed ground since then. He now thinks the provisions of the Trade Practices Act ought to be invested in a special federal court, as the Labor Government proposed at that time. I wonder why he has changed his tune? I will come to that shortly. 
The Attorney-General then went on very poignantly to object to the jurisdictions which the legislation was designed to remove from the State courts. What he said is worth quoting in full: 
This is an extremely important matter. Industrial accident and workers' compensation jurisdiction will be removed; taxation jurisdiction will be removed; industrial property jurisdiction will be removed. I ask honourable members'. 
What will be left of the great common law courts of the States of this country? 
I imagine that even the Attorney would concede that  Sir Garfield  Barwick has the interests of the great common law courts of this country at least as much at heart as he does. He proposed that exactly those 3 items the Attorney then instancedindustrial accident and workers' compensation, taxation matters and industrial property matters- ought to be part of the original jurisdiction of Federal courts. Let me read what  Sir Garfield  Barwick had to say in that same law review article in 1964. In relation to taxation and industrial property he said: 
I turn now to consider what original jurisdiction should be conferred on a new federal superior court. The basic ingredients I think I have perhaps already sufficiently indicatedtaxation matters other than mere enforcement of assessments, and industrial property matters. 

 Sir Garfield Barwick had it right! The Attorney had it wrong.  Sir Garfield  Barwick had it wrong on one count; he objected in 1964 to the inclusion within the original jurisdiction of a Federal court of family law matters or, as we then referred to them, matrimonial causes matters. The Attorney-General now concedes that family law is an appropriate subject to be administered in separate Federal courts. All of these views reflect value judgments. 
I want to refer now to the substance of my amendment. In particular I want to mention the timidity of this Government, and particularly the Attorney-General, in describing what should be the original jurisdiction of the Federal Court. In a very significant article in 1963  Mr Byers,  the present Solicitor-General, put the case very well when, talking about the device of investing State courts with Federal jurisidiction, he said. 
This device of investing the State courts with federal jurisdiction virtually means that the Federal Government hands over administration of the Statutes involved to State Governments without considering whether such State Governments might be or become hostile, friendly or merely disinterested. 
The Attorney-General in 1975,  Mr Enderby-he  was a good Attorney-General- had this to say: 
The Parliament has no constitutional responsibility for State courts and cannot under the Constitution intervene in the organisation of those courts. 
Earlier in the year we had a very good example in this Parliament of this occurring in relation to the administration of the matrimonial causes legislation. The Attorney will well remember that several very pointed questions of great public interest were raised in relation to the proceedings in a State Supreme Court in a matter entitled  Robson  v.  Robson.  The Attorney-General was unable to discover for members of this Parliament the information sought precisely for those reasons- precisely because he had no control over the administration of the laws passed by this Parliament. That simply is not good enough. It is not good enough to make value judgments about what are special areas of interest and then to say that others are not special areas. Quite eminent authorities differ on this point.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, for instance, did not think that family law was an appropriate subject. Now I think that the vast majority of members of the Parliament would concede that it is. The Attorney-General does not concede that industrial property and taxation matters are appropriate matters for the original jurisdiction of the Federal Court.  Sir Garfield  Barwick did. 
The present Attorney-General concluded his objections in 1974 with the most curious objection of all, but it was typical of the obfuscation he raised throughout the debate at that time and subsequently in 1975. He said: 
I ask: Can the right of appeal to the High Court be taken away? I ask that question because the judges of this court are officers of the Commonwealth just as judges of the Federal Industrial Court are officers of the Commonwealth and they are subject to the original jurisdication of the High Court under section 75 (5) of the Constitution. I have mentioned those matters because they only indicate that there are constitutional problems with this court as well. 
He reached the true part in the last sentence when he said: 'I only mention that because there are constitutional problems'. He knows that there are constitutional problems that  Sir Garfield  Barwick did not think were insurmountable back in 1964. He concedes that he was grasping at straws in respect of the measures we are now discussing, measures such as the power of the High Court to remit matters to other State courts and to Territory courts, and that such objections were not legitimate. 
In 1975 when the Bill was brought before the House again, because the Senate had rejected it for reasons I can guess would not even be as well expounded as the peculiar reasons of the Attorney-General that I have just gone through, the Attorney-General had refined his argument. He said that he did not want to repeat his argument. I can understand that, as someone who values his professional reputation, he would not want to be seen too often stating such ludicrous propositions. This time we had a longish speech from the present Attorney-General who was by this time on the front bench of the then Opposition. As honourable members will recall, he was the shadow spokesman on Aboriginal affairs. He talked about the Bill having come back in the form in which it had been put to the House in 1974. He said that it was an irrelevant Bill because developments since the Bill was originally passed by the House of Representatives had made it out of date. He said it referred to the Matrimonial Causes Act which had been repealed because the Parliament had passed the Family Law Act. He said that the level of salaries set out in the legislation was out of date as a result of movements in money values. Of course they were all relevant objections and, as the Attorney knew, they could have been met by amendments in the Senate which would have been accepted by the Labor Government of the day. The Attorney-General knew that but he still forced on with these propositions that must have stretched his professional credibility tremendously. 
I really like the following remarks of the present Attorney-General in that debate: 
This underscores one basic fact, namely, that there are some aspects in relation to which section 57 of the Constitution ceases to have effect I suggest that the Attorney-General have a fresh look at section 57 to see whether it can appropriately apply to a Bill that no longer in many respects has relevance. 
Honourable members know that the AttorneyGeneral is the resident expert on section 57 of the Constitution in respect of which he offered the most famous piece of gratuitous legal advice in the history of Australia. Tomorrow is the anniversary of that advice being acted on- in the specious Yarralumla statement. The specious Yarralumla statement made no reference to the proclamation that dissolved the Parliament. But I daresay that the Attorney has seen it, and possibly had seen it before it was signed by Malcolm Fraser when he did not command a majority in this House. If the Attorney-General cares to look at that statement again he will see listed amongst the Bills upon which the Governor-General purported to dissolve both Houses of Parliament the Superior Court of Australia Bill 1974. How ironic that on the anniversary of that despicable and outrageous occasion that ghost should come back in this legislation to haunt the AttorneyGeneral. 
The Attorney-General then went on to talk in very large terms about the ideals of a system of national courts, all of which we should support, and about the difficulties with Chapter III- the judicature chapter- of the Constitution. He urged the Prime Minister to place it on the agenda of the Australian Constitutional Convention. I was at the Australian Constitutional Convention and so was the present Attorney-General and neither he nor any of his co-delegates from his side of the House sought to place those questions on the agenda or in any way to have them discussed, not even laterally in relation to the retiring age of judges. The amendment deserves the support of the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
I am reluctant to let the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  have the last word on such a momentous occasion. It is a pity that he, along with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  had to go to Oxford to learn about the Australian Constitution. It is said that when the Prime Minister was there and was asked about the Australian Constitution people thought he was talking about the effect of horse riding, the diaphragm and the wind. The Constitution is something that we all knew about when we studied law in this country. Those who have studied constitutional history in this country and all honourable members opposite know that the rules are perfectly straight. Governments are made in the House of Representatives. That is the basic rule which everybody opposite has to live with for the rest of their days. They know that in their heart of hearts. That rule was broken by everybody who accepted a commission from the Governor-General on 11 November 1975. They know that they will find no text book in law, politics or government- call it what you will- which accepts the theory of a caretaker government. 
The proposition for debate at the moment deserves repeating, that is, the systematic dismantling of the Australian Legal Aid Office by the Government. In the last couple of minutes the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  has conceded that in fact that is his very definite intention. He has expressed it. He has come out into the open. 
-When the honourable member checks  Hansard  later on he will see that that is what the Attorney-General said. It is the one promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on which he is going to perform. He promised to abolish theAustralian Legal Aid Office and he will. Let me deal with some of the curious arguments raised by the Attorney-General, not in any particularly logical order but in the order in which he raised them. First of all, he said that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in raising this matter for debate was trying to stop the Government establishing adequate and proper legal aid services. 'Adequate and proper'- the old code words. Let us consider the legal aid services which existed in Australia before 1973. With the exception of New South Wales, such services hardly existed at all, and in New South Wales they were a very confusing mish-mash of different governmental schemes and private practitioners' schemes. Legal aid did not grow up in a vacuum in 1 973. It grew up to meet a real human need, and it was opposed at every turn by the then Opposition, which is now in Government. It was opposed by the Attorney-General when he was in Opposition and by every one of his colleagues. If one examines what the Attorney-General said today, their interest first and foremost is that of private practitioners and never of those who are the clients of proper legal aid services. 
The Attorney-General then raised the curious proposition that in the Budget this year there has been some increase in the budgetary figure for the Australian Legal Aid Office. He knows that in real terms there has been no increase in the allocation above the expenditure by the Office last year. Of course, the truth is that in February, when the Attorney-General suspended all development and future expansion of the Legal Aid Office, he cut back considerably on its proposed development- development proposed by the Australian Labor Government and voted for by this Parliament. When this Parliament appropriated funds for the establishment of new regional offices and for the employment of additional staff in Legal Aid Offices, those funds were supposed to be spent for those purposes, but in February the Attorney-General cut those funds. He ordered that they should not be spent. 
The Attorney-General went on to refer- I should have thought that he would be rather ashamed of it- to the $60 fee he has imposed on applications in divorce. This is the divorce tax introduced by this Government, a revenue opportunity from the other people's misery. What a great piece of revenue gathering it is. As I recall it, and I have not got the Budget papers here with me, it presents a revenue opportunity of about $2m. To suggest that that will finance legal aid in this country, even at its present inadequate level is, of course nonsense. It will do nothing of the sort. It will make no impact on it. In fact, the Attorney-General has proposed to apply a $60 fee not simply on applications for divorce but on ancillary proceedings for maintenance and custody, and it was only because there was a leak of information and the newspapers got wind of it that the Attorney-General was stopped from further pursuing this iniquitous way of financing -in part, he tells us- legal aid in Australia. 
Next and most curiously, the AttorneyGeneral referred to the fact that increasing numbers of matters were undertaken by the Legal Aid Office during the past year and that that reflected an increase in activity. I put it to the Attorney-General that, as he would be well aware, where there is a staff freeze and the same number of staff is conducting more interviews and dealing with more matters, in a legal office that is not a reflection of an increase in productivity. It is a reflection of the fact that less thoughtful time is being spent in counselling the people who have come to discuss their legal needs and in providing assistance to them. The Attorney-General ought to know that big law offices charge on a time basis, and from the sort of statistics he has given to the House today it is quite apparent that less time than is necessary is being spent by staff in Australian Legal Aid Offices branches in counselling their clients. Yet he said, with a touch of pride, that those statistics reflect a wonderful performance by the Fraser Government. In fact the truth is the contrary. 
The Attorney-General referred to the staff security of officers employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office. He made great play on the fact that he put it to the Law Council of Australia in no uncertain terms that he was not in the business of putting people out of jobs and that officers of the Legal Aid Office had to be looked after. If that is the position that gives the lie to his rationale for stopping expansion of legal aid officers. In February when the Attorney-General suspended the development of offices that had been proposed, and already undertaken and in relation to which certain expenditure had already been incurred he said that he could not have this, that it would lead to too much staff insecurity. In fact, it is the old story- it is fiddling while Rome burns. He may become known as easy going Ellicott' but in his provision of legal aid services he will never be known as 'bustling Bob*. These offices were thought to be necessary. If they had been established and if he is genuine in what he says about officers employed in them being able to be transferred to State legal aid commissions, of course he would have been able to do that at the same time as he established the new offices. 
The Attorney-General referred to the fact that the Labor Government had established the Australian Legal Aid office in 1973 and had cast the officers into bare offices to dispense legal aid. I wonder why that happened? That happened because no offices existed before that time- 23 years of Tory Government in Australia had not acknowledged legal aid as a proper subject for the provision of funds by this Parliament. The Labor Government set about rearranging that priority. It established legal aid offices. Of course, they-were bare offices with bare floor boards and without carpets because they were new offices. It was not a matter of being able to improve or touch up some existing legal aid services. None had existed. This was a situation of satisfaction perhaps to those who back the Liberal Party and National Country Party in this Parliament, but not of much help to the many people who have since the establishment of the Office, shown very clearly the necessity for it by taking their problems there, especially to the offices in easy convenient locations in major country and suburban centres. 
The Attorney-General has a fixation about the relationship of the Australian Legal Aid Office with private practitioners. I do not suppose there would be any sociologist in Australia who would not be able to establish very clearly that lawyers must be about the most conservative people in our community. Doctors may run them very close but lawyers would certainly be up there with them. I do not think that if we fiddled with any existing scheme we would not discover lawyers who were not disturbed about it. Of course they are. The Attorney-General spoke about Liberal initiatives. He pointed out that he had established casual conferences between members of the Australian Legal Aid Office and persons in the private practitioner schemes- in fact, the people who run the law societies in several States and Territories. In fact, of course, the major initiative of the Liberal Party and National Country Party during the establishment of the Legal Aid Office was to institute a challenge in the High Court of Australia with the fiat of the Victorian Attorney-General to seek to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office. They did that at a time when they had not even half-baked plans to establish anything in its place. The fact is that the Attorney-General's intention to establish legal aid commissions in each of the States is nothing more than an attempt to hand over legal aid to the private profession. 
I do not seek here to deprecate those persons in the private profession who are providing services of a legal aid nature. But it has been shown time and time again in Australia that this type of service simply is not adequate. To hand over any legal aid in Australia again to a group controlled by the private profession will simply not be good enough. To talk about its being done on a State by State basis does not help much either. If we look at what has happened in Western Australiathis is a scheme with which the AttorneyGeneral is quite satisfied- we will see that it will be controlled by the private profession. 
I do not have the time to go through every one of the points raised by the Attorney-General. But I think it extraordinary when he talks about the multiplicity of sources from which people can seek legal aid in New South Wales- perhaps not unnaturally his obsession has been with New South Wales because that is one State in which there ever was any attempt to provide a salaried service- he talks about clients being confused. I can tell the Attorney-General now that my constituents are confused about going to the branch legal aid office at which they formerly were able to get legal aid because they are now being turned away as a result of the means test which he has imposed. They are being turned away as a result of a tightening of the means test. The Attorney-General talks about lawyers not being supposed to impose a means test- of lawyers having to administer a means test that he has made so harsh. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I refer the Minister for Primary Industry to the statement of an interview with him in today's  Australian Financial Review  wherein he is reported as saying that the Government's car quotas are entirely different from the prospective quotas on beef imports of the Japanese Government because the former are applied only after a Tariff Board inquiry. Did the honourable gentleman not see the statement of the Prime Minister, made in Adelaide on 1 November this year, guaranteeing that car imports would not be allowed to exceed 20 per cent, even though the subject was at that time under consideration by the Industries Assistance Commission? What then is the essential difference between Japan's action on beef and the car quota policy to which the Prime Minister arbitrarily committed the Government prior to receiving the IAC report? 
I second the motion. I congratulate the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on a very erudite speech, which he commenced by taking us through the constitutional basis of this legislation. I think that it is probably important that I should repeat why it is that that is necessary. So often in this Parliament we have members of the conservative Parties denying that they have any opportunity to influence events because there is no constitutional power in this Parliament. For many years that was probably the accepted view of the legal profession. But, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has made perfectly clear, it now seems unquestionable that this Parliament does have the authority to legislate on this subject. As he said, the Government has exhibited a considerable degree of timidity in relation to this subject, particularly in relation to its proposals for companies and securities laws. 
The Parliament should legislate for a national companies Bill because of the terrifying situation that exists at the moment as a result of the mishmash of State laws. Very few people who have been concerned with the direction or management of companies would not be aware of the tremendous amount of paper work involved simply in complying with the different laws of the 6 States and the 2 internal Territories. In fact, it seems to many people that the only reason for these laws continuing in existence is to provide employment for provincial offices of lawyers and accountants. If one goes to an accountant's office in one of the smaller States and looks at the notice board outside of it one is amazed at the number of companies of which it is the registered office. This no doubt provides a nice little income for some of those firms. But the purpose of companies legislation ought to be something more than simply providing employment for a few professional people. 
Apart from that side of this subject, considerable difficulties have arisen as a result of the lack of uniformity between State laws- not simply in the wording of the legislation but, most importantly, in its administration. Earlier this year I had occasion to draw the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  to the very difficult situation that had arisen where the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales was taking a different view of what was a true and fair profit from the corporate affairs body in Victoria. The 2 largest States, the 2 centres of commercial activity and the 2 States which have the most sophisticated and best equipped companies offices to administer legislation could not agree on the interpretation of identical words in the statute. This was, of course, an impossible situation for the companies which had to comply with that legislation. It meant that in accounting for their profits from one subsidiary they had to take a different view in one State from that which they took in another State. 
One of the most extraordinary things when we talk about the need for national companies legislation in this country is that nowadays hardly anyone in the States or even in the conservative Parties in this Parliament refers to the interstate Corporate Affairs Commission. I think it has been conceded generally now that that body is an irrelevance, that it has had no beneficial effect whatever in either the administration of uniform company laws or in the creation of more uniform companies laws. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, what started out in 1961 as legislation which was at least identical in wording is now nothing like that in wording or, especially, in administration. 
What has been the reaction of the Government to this difficult question? It is difficult simply because it only requires the will to put into this Parliament a piece of comprehensive legislation which will provide for the regulation and management of companies throughout Australia. The question is not a new one; it is one which has been debated a great deal in the public Press over the last few years. The Rae committee which inquired into the securities industry pointed up the need for national companies Legislation. There has been a debate in all areas of commercial life over a number of years about this. It is not something in which the Government would not be able to move relatively quickly. When Parliament was dissolved last year there was a piece of legislation almost identical with that which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has introduced today already before the Parliament. The question is not a new one. We had to wait until July this year before the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs produced his proposals. I am afraid that I have to be somewhat less generous than my colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith was in talking about the efforts of the Minister to introduce a degree of uniformity into companies laws in this country. The very design of the proposal was deficient and I think has been recognised as such by every recognised authoritative commentator on companies law in Australia. The proposal that we should, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, have a uniform law which is reached as a result of the lowest common denominator of agreement between the Federal Government and the States is not satisfactory. It is not only a way that will never allow the laws to be amended quickly as they may need to be from time to time but it certainly ensures that the most conservative view in the most conservative States will always prevail. 
Let us look at the time frame on this matter. This Government now has been in power for over a year. When it came to power the question of uniform companies legislation or national companies legislation had been subject to debate for at least two or three years before that by all interested persons. It took until halfway through this year to develop a set of proposals and those proposals were, and are, half-baked. The discussions that proceeded about them with the several States have been conducted in an amazingly casual manner. The Minister told the Parliament just this week that having had discussions with several State Ministers last week he now proposes to talk to them at least by mid-February. By that time it will have been another several months since this matter was introduced by him and, of course, it will have been over a year since the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith placed notice of his Bill on the notice paper. This really is an extraordinarily casual approach. On the time frame of a Parliament that is permitted to a Labor Government we are already more than halfway through the government's life. It seems that a Labor government gets only 18 months of a parliament, at the most, to bring in its legislation, but this Government has now taken nearly a year and it proposes to take another 6 months casually discussing the subject. The subject will not wait. 
I want to refer in some detail to the unsatisfactory nature of the proposals of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The first thing to be said, and I expect the Minister is even realising this now, is that they are impractical because they will not be agreed to by the States. If you look at the more responsible States, not simply those under Labor administration but also those like Victoria where there is at least some willingness to compromise on these questions, you will see that they do not agree to the proposal the Minister has put to them. In New South Wales the Government has pointed out very clearly that it believes that this subject requires national legislation which should be complete, comprehensive and all-embracing. That is a firm position taken by that Government. At the same time it has indicated that if it is the only thing that can be done, if that is all that can be achieved, then of course it will co-operate with the Federal Government and the other States but it has made it quite clear that the proposals do not go far enough to solve the problem. The Premier of New South Wales, commenting on the proposals of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, had this to say and he referred particularly to the Rae report: 
In this we are supported by the Rae Report which, in relation to a proposal for a joint Commonwealth-State action, came to the view that such an arrangement 'would seriously endanger the ability of the system of regulation to adapt speedily to ever changing circumstances and standards'. 
I think that that situation has been borne out since the Premier of New South Wales said that and it is based very much also on the experience of company administrators in his State. If honourable members look at Victoria and if we can believe the newspaper accounts of the discussions last week that the Minister had with the several Ministers, that State proposes still that the State should police company activity; that whilst it may concede to the Federal Government some role in legislation and administration in relation to the securities industry it proposed that corporate activity be controlled by the States. For several of the reasons which I have given already that is just not good enough. The States have a lamentable record of administration of existing company laws. They have also shown very little creativity in developing new laws to deal with new situations. Above all the administrators of companies have been bedevilled by the lack of uniformity between the States, not simply in the wording of legislation but in its administration. For that reason the proposal of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs that the bulk of administration of company law should remain with the States contains a fatal flaw. It is one that would be remedied by the provisions of the Bill introduced by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. 
This Bill proposes a national system of regulation so that there can be no doubt by any administrator of any company whether he or she is complying with the law. It hardly needs restating, as the honourable member for KingsfordSmith put it, that people in Queensland and Western Australia and people who do not even live there but have commercial activities there, have to put up with most reactionary and conservative administrations. Both of them have evinced no willingness whatever to co-operate with this conservative government in Canberra in relation to uniform company laws- not simply with a Labor government in Canberra but with a conservative government. The position will emerge, clearly, that in States like Queensland you will have a corporate haven where the laws will not only be more relaxed in relation to the management of companies but the administration will be less competent and less adequate. One only has to look at the experience in the United States to see that companies will shop around between different jurisdictions to incorporate companies in the State which provides not simply the most economical way of administering a company- that would be a legitimate objective- but which allows the company to go about its business without proper supervision. 
It is quite clear, and it must be becoming clear to the Minister, that this will be the result of his proposals. They will not be accepted by the States. Even if they were they would be quite inadequate. The fact that the administration will be left to the States seems to me to evidence more of a concern for the tenure of civil servants in company offices in the several States than for the implementation of effective national laws in relation to companies. During the last stock exchange boom it was no accident that the companies which had the worst management were quite often incorporated in the smaller States where the administration of the laws was not up to standard. I do not need to instance the companies as they will spring readily to mind. This was because, no doubt, the administrators of the company laws with the best will in the world do not have the expertise. If we cannot justify putting on people with expertise because there are not many companies to administer we will not have access to that kind of expertise. This position arose particularly in Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia. It will continue until we have effective national companies legislation. 
The proposals of the Government for joint Federal-State action are inadequate. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is coming to realise it. He is proceeding about his discussions with the States in what I regard and what I think many people outside the Parliament regard as an extraordinarily casual way. Persons involved in the direction and management of companies ought not to have so much of their time taken up simply filling up over and over again the same forms to file in different States. Having filled them up they find that different State officials interpret those  forms  in different ways or they do not agree about the way in which those companies report their profits. The only way that problems can be solved and the only way in which we will get from the point of view of internal management of companies much greater efficiency and from the point of view of the public much more honest and responsible management, is to have national companies legislation. The Bill introduced into the House by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith provides such a framework. It deserves the support of honourable members in the House and I commend the Bill. 
Leave granted for debate to continue forthwith. 
I suspect that the only person on the 
Government side who understands this provision is the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  and I am afraid that I think he has misrepresented the effect of this measure. When he talks about the national interest being served by this kind of legislation he could very well be right, but the fact is that the only way in which evidence for foreign tribunals is ever taken in this country is in our domestic courts. One of the National interests which we would want to have served is the ability for parties in proceedings started in this country to be able to issue  commission rogatoire  to foreign countries to have evidence taken here. It is quite clear that this kind of legislation will result in reciprocal legislation not being available in other countries. 
The Attorney-General may be aware- he ought to be aware- that there is legislation not dissimilar to this in the United Kingdom. My recollection of it is that it has been used several times in order to avoid companies in England having documents subpoenaed in United States anti-trust proceedings. When it happens, the Secretary of State in the United Kingdom does not have the kind of authority which is given here in clause 4 to the Attorney-General but has to make a statutory instrument wherein he prescribes certain documents as being, for the purposes of the legislation, documents which will not be subject to the usual letters of request in an English court. That kind of procedure provides the sanction that we should be looking for here because it could be disallowed by a vote in the Parliament. It would provide a real supervision of the Attorney's very wide powers under clause 4. 1 am surprised that the Attorney-General does not make a much better case than he has. His calling on feelings of nationalism and patriotism he knows is not correct. He knows that this provision will lead to other countries denying our courts the opportunity to issue  commission rogatoire  in similar proceedings or in dissimilar proceedings, particularly those relating to corporate crime. I think the Attorney-General should address himself to this question in a more serious fashion. 
That is a most unsatisfactory explanation. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  for more than half his time set up a proposition with which no one on this side was disagreeing. We all accept the explanation of the provision which is found in the explanatory notes which were circulated. That states: 
Clause 5 . . . Releases from the obligation to notify price increases those subsidiaries of prescribed companies which have annual turnovers not exceeding $5m. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  put to the Minister and to the Committee that this will lead to the fragmentation of existing groups of companies in order to avoid the notification procedures. If the Minister is not aware of ways in which companies can avoid paying duty on the disposition of assets, I will be pleased to tell him. But I suspect that he is aware and that the honourable members behind him are aware. There will be a considerable opportunity for existing groups of companies to set up new subsidiaries, to incorporate existing divisions and this kind of thing. In relation to the point that there is a carrying cost involved in organising different groups of companies, the Minister will remember back to the days when companies used to organise so many different subsidiaries so that they were below the threshold for payroll tax. That is a very common thing for business to do in this country. If the Government sets up a procedure, mark my words business will use the device the Government is laying open to it. The Minister has not given any explanation as to why the subsidiaries are to be exempt from the notification procedures of this legislation. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
After section 7 ofthe Principal Act the following section is inserted:- "7a. (1) The Minister, after consultation with the  Chairman,  may appoint persons to be associate members of the Tribunal. "(4) The  Chairman  may, by writing signed by him, direct that, for the purposes ofthe exercise ofthe powers of the Tribunal in connexion with an inquiry and report in relation to a specified matter, not being an exercise of those powers by a Division of the Tribunal, a specified associate member or specified associate members shall be deemed to be a member or members of the Tribunal and, in that case, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference in this Act to a member of the Tribunal shall, for the purposes only of the exercise of the powers of the Commission m connexion with that inquiry and report, be construed as including a reference to that associate member or each of those associate members, as the case may be. 
Clause 16 is a most outrageous provision introduced by the Government. This provision will, in effect, destroy the Tribunal. Honourable members ought to be in no doubt about the central importance of the exemption powers in the workings of the Tribunal. Section 18 of the Act, which deals with notification of proposed price increases, is the central provision of the Prices Justification Act. The exemption power is absolutely vital to the administration of that provision. I read very briefly what the Tribunal had to say about this power in its annual report for the year ending 30 June this year. It stated:   the exemption power contained in the Prices Justification Act complements the notification power in 2 very important ways; first by providing an optional power and second, by providing the Tribunal with the means of exercising a discretion based on the circumstances and nature of individual cases. 
The Tribunal has used that power to develop 12 categories of cases in which it grants exemption. The conditions of the exemption are largely standard in those categories. The Tribunal comments that the development of those categories has been of enormous practical value both from the Tribunal's and the companies' points of view. What the Government is proposing now, especially in the amendment just moved by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  is that the grant of an exemption by the Tribunal cannot be made subject to any condition. I want to show how important it is that when granting an exemption the Tribunal ought to be able to impose conditions. The  bona fides  of the Minister, quite frankly, in this exercise is open to grave doubt. When he introduced the Bill on 1 1 November he stated: 
The Government expects that in most cases exemptions will not be subject to reporting conditions. 
He concluded: 
The thrust of these changes is to ensure that exemptions are of real benefit to companies and that they do not have associated with them the onerous reporting conditions attaching to the notification procedures. 
Since 1 1 November he has talked to someone else and someone else has convinced him that no conditions ought to attach to exemptions at all. He gave us no good reason why. He mentioned earlier by way of interjection that he was not in favour of the retail industry being subject even to the notification provisions of section 18. If one looks at that very difficult question of the retail industry one will see that it is precisely in that business that the Tribunal has developed exemption procedures that seem to work quite well. At page 43 of its annual report the Tribunal says: 
. the new exemptions- 
That is, in relation to the retail industry- provide a better surveillance of the retailer's operations yet there is little requirement for information not normally compiled by the companies in the course of their business operations. 
Just how is it proposed that the Tribunal or in fact the Government is going to have any knowledge of what is going on in these industries unless the people who get the exemptions are subject to conditions on the way in which they conduct their businesses and unless they have to provide the Tribunal with a continuing body of information so that it remains expert in price surveillance? The Tribunal pointed up at page 45 of its report how very important is the information that comes to it as a result of the conditions imposed under exemption authorisations. Talking about inquiries pursuant to section 16 of the Act it said: 
The initiative for these investigations came through advices received from the major retailers as a condition of retail exemption orders, from information about higher costs supplied by prescribed companies in support of notices of higher prices, and from information provided by members of the public. 
Of the 3 ways in which the Tribunal gathers information which leads to a section 16 inquiry situation, the most important is the continuing reporting of conditions imposed under the exemption authorisations. Yet the Minister proposes to do away with those conditions. Not only does he propose to do away with those conditions prospectively but he proposes also to do away with them in relation to exemptions already granted. Of course, that is completely outrageous, because the kinds of matters in this new legislation to which the Tribunal is to direct its attention in granting authorisations were not statutory requirements at the time those previous exemptions were granted. It means in effect that where the Tribunal has granted exemption on one set of circumstances, and the Tribunal has said it will grant the exemption subject to certain conditions, the Minister is now saying that the exemption will stay in place; the conditions will not apply. Of course I can anticipate what the Minister will say, and that is that it is perfectly possible for the Tribunal at any time to revoke its authorisation of the exemption. He ought to be aware that to do that in every one of these cases where there is an existing exemption which imposes conditions would throw the whole system into chaos. 
The orderly development of price surveillance, if that is what the Government wants, depends upon reliable information being provided to the Tribunal on a continuing basis. The way in which that is done under exemption, where an exemption is granted, is to impose conditions. The alternative is to revoke those exemptions and to insist in every case that there be a notification of the proposed price increase. How otherwise can the Tribunal develop any information? If one looks at the new provisions which the Government has inserted in relation to the exemption power one will see that in the proposed new subsection 8a which the Minister talks about as producing the integration of the provisions of the Prices Justification Act with those of the Trade Practices Act. He says in his second reading speech: 
In respect of the first of these elements the Bill in effect copies the monopoly provision of the trade practices legislation. This will promote a greater consistency of approach between the deliberations of the Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission regarding the nature and structure of markets. 
What absolute rubbish. Anybody familiar with the provisions of the Trade Practices Act would know that whether one is a monopolist or not is only one of the considerations that affect the many provisions of that Act which relate to competitive behaviour. The key question at which the Government ought to be looking is whether in fact there is price competition. That would be a relevant consideration for the granting of an exemption. But the fact that a company is or is not a monopolist is a complete red herring. The provisions of the Trade Practices Act relating to restraint of trade which govern price fixing, to exclusive dealing, to resale price maintenance and all these objectionable practices affecting competition and which affect cartels are directed to competition. It is not central to the question whether the company or groups of companies involved are monopolies. So it is a complete red herring, and to suggest in any event that this will lead to a greater integration of the work of the 
Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission is nonsense. 
The Tribunal is under staffed at the moment, as the Minister ought to know. The Tribunal has no expertise of the kind that the Trade Practices Commission has in relation to markets and the competitive effects of different companies' activities in those markets. This provision is designed to give a wink and a nod to the Tribunal that if it can determine that a company is not a monopolist then it ought to be given the benefit of the doubt and it ought to be granted an exemption. That is clearly just not good enough. The exemption power contained in the provisions dealing with the notification of proposed price increases is absolutely central. By weakening it in this fashion the Government is ensuring that the Tribunal will not have access to the continuing knowledge and information which it needs about markets, about price movements in particular industries and in particular companies. One only has to look at the kind of information in the annual report for last year to see that it will not be available another time. 
I want to say one other thing in relation to this legislation. The Minister talks about monitoring activity. How on earth is he to monitor activity when the Tribunal does not have this information? In his statement tabled on 16 September the Minister talked about a greater use of section 16. The Government has been in power for about a year and yet we have seen no use of section 16 and I do not expect that we ever shall. In any event how will the Government ever know what the activity is in any particular industry area unless it gets the information, which will be denied to it as a result of the provisions which it is introducing into this chamber tonight? 
I want very briefly to call in aid the views of another person to the effect that the exemptions, with conditions, are an important part of the operations ofthe Prices Justification Tribunal in Australia. In today's edition of the  Australian Financial Review,  Mr Russell  Scott writes: 
It has developed a system of granting conditional exemptions, particularly for retailers. 
This frees a retailer from the impossible task of notifying the PJT of every price variation of every product on sale, but usually involves the duty to lodge regular accounts and financial information showing profit figures. 
In other words, although the retailer is able to increase rices without telling the PJT, the PJT receives regular (e.g. alf-yearly) - 
I trunk it is more often quarterly- profit and trading information which would allow it to carry out an inquiry if it wished, or to revoke the exemption. 

 Mr Scott singles out retailers. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  will know that this applies to other industries as well. I think that when  Mr Scott  wrote that article he took the optimistic view about the Government's alterations to the legislation. He had in mind only the legislation introduced on 11 November. If he had been aware of proposed new sub-section 1 8 ( 8bb) or of the effect of paragraph 2 (c) of clause 16 of this measure, he would have thought that the effect would be to destroy effectively prices justification in Australia. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken together. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. I refer him to resolutions carried at meetings of the Australian Legal Aid Office Staff Association which recommend that Association members not accept transfers to State organisations in the light of the arrangements countenanced by himself. Does the honourable gentleman intend to reconsider his hastily conceived plans to transfer full responsibility for the functions of the Australian Legal Aid Office to the States? Further, will he continue to induce transfers of staff from the Australian Legal Aid Office to the commissions established by the States? 
I second the amendment. I hope that some honourable members on the Government side will support the Opposition on this question. Nineteen days after the Act was first passed through both Houses of this Parliament, a much improved piece of legislation has been introduced. I think that by mid-year next year we could have an even better piece of legislation. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  ought to be able to acknowledge that fact. There is certainly nothing unusual about giving legislation a limited life and there will be plenty of time next year in this Parliament and in this House to look at ways of improving this legislation. I think we should discipline ourselves to doing that. This legislation was initially a most unsatisfactory piece of legislation and was introduced in far too rushed a fashion, as the Attorney acknowledges. It has been improved very greatly a mere 1 9 days after it was first introduced and we ought to be able to improve it very much in the months that lie ahead. It can hardly be said that advisers in the Attorney-General's Department, have, for many years, been vexed about this question of foreign proceedings and the prohibition of certain evidence. It is clear that they have not. This measure has been introduced in relation to one specific proceeding begun in a United States district court. This is a matter which the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  has been interested in and agitated about for a very long time. I think that we can look to perhaps improving this whole question of the taking of evidence for foreign tribunals in Australia. I think that we ought to look at it in a big way, in the large picture. 
The concern of the honourable member for Hawker has been very properly about orderly marketing of raw materials. Clearly that is a matter on which Government members take a very different view from members on this side of the House. This is not the first instance in which the United States district courts have directed their processes towards the domestic courts in this country under the United States anti-trust laws and under their reach in relation to the foreign commerce of the United States corporations. It has been in relation to questions such as the manufacturing of television sets, such as in the Zenith and Admiral litigation. I think that a great many members on this side of the House would regard that litigation and the extent to which evidence was able to be produced as a result of letters of request issued to Australian domestic courts as very beneficial to world commerce and in breaking up of cartels of an objectionable nature. This will be an increasing problem. The Attorney-General may well recall that when this matter first came very hurriedly before the House, one of the other aspects that perturbed me was the question of reciprocity and the extent to which other countries would now seek to limit the access of Australian courts to their own courts for the purpose of taking evidence relating to proceedings begun in Australia under Australian laws. 
The Attorney-General scored a couple of cheap political points when he spoke about the attitudes of Labor State Attorneys-General to the Privy Council. He will not find any narrow States lighters' on this side of the House. I suggest that with regard to this question, which involves very difficult questions of international law, the Parliament should look at the rights of States in international law. I refer not to colonies, provinces or sub-units of a national government but to how we are to deal with questions of foreign commerce and trade between all countries of the world, between what we called States' in international law. It would be a wonderful thing if Australia were seen to take some kind of leading role in this process because, increasingly, it will become a problem. Increasingly, not only the laws of the United States but also the laws of other countries, will try to affect the foreign commerce of corporations incorporated in those countries, which in turn will affect operations in Australia in which evidence will need to be taken in Australia. Increasingly, too, we will see the operation of Australian laws affecting Australian corporations outside Australia. It is not an easy question. It is one about which we should discipline ourselves. It is one to which we could very well give time for discussion during the next session. If it involves nothing more than we have seen in this session, as in the stevedoring industry legislation or simply extending the operation of a current piece of legislation that may be satisfactory. But if this question does not deserve at least as much as the few minutes, hardly hours, that the Parliament has devoted to it this year, I would be very surprised. I commend the amendment to all members and think it deserving of the Committee's support. 
I rise briefly to oppose as strongly as I can this shabby piece of legislation. I think that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  put this legislation into context when he spoke of the cant with which Liberal Party and National Country Party members of this House talk about such subjects. Let us get this matter perfectly straight. All senior public servants are, of course, politicians, though perhaps not of any constant partisan attachment. In saying that, I am not making a reflection, particularly in respect of their honesty. But all of them would regard themselves in one way or another as politicians. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  put forward what I thought was a most useful textual analysis of this particular legislation, a piece of legislation which apparently is incapable of being understood by the honourable members for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and Hume. Two things need to be said to these honourable members plainly. Non-career appointees can be established candidates and career appointees may not necessarily be established candidates. So it does not follow that someone from without the Public Service will be appointed subject to the limitations of proposed new sections 54 (9) to 54 (15). They do not understand what they are talking about. 
Pardon my remarking on the irony of joining in this debate with my good friend, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  He represents in this House a great many public servantspeople whom persons on the other side of this chamber always choose to picture, when they go home to their electorates, as layabouts. I find it passing odd that in a piece of legislation such as this, when it comes to dealing with the mandarins of the Public Service, we see the forelock tugging and deference which come so easily to the conservatives in this Parliament. The public servants whom the honourable member for Fraser represents are in the main men and women who do the more basic chores in the PubUc Service or who do the middling chores the chores which are very well paid, sometimes at between $10,000 and $20,000 a year-but they do work that brings them into touch with the reality, the statistics at least, of some of the people facing the desperate situation in Australia which is never seen by the constituents of people in this chamber who come from the wealthiest residential districts in our metropolitan areas. 
This Bill provides statutory procedures for nominating persons suitable for appointment to fill a vacancy in an office of permanent head. Let us look at those procedures. They are very unsatisfactory. A person so nominated is described as an established candidate. The nomination procedures, which amount to little more than the identification and labelling of so-called established candidates, are, as I said, very unsatisfactory. The list of suitable names is prepared by the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board and by a committee of permanent heads appointed by the  Chairman  after 'consultation' with the Prime Minister. After receiving the reports, not before receiving the reports, of the  Chairman  and of the committee, the Prime Minister may require the office to be advertised. How will the  Chairman  and his pals, the permanent heads whom he appoints to this cosy committee, know who are the suitable candidates who exist not simply in the Public Service but also outside the Public Service for appointment to these very important jobs as heads of departments? The Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration recommended that a vacancy should be advertised before a short list is prepared. So, that recommendation has been ignored. 
In addition, after the  Chairman  and the committee have delivered their initial reports, the Prime Minister may request them to consider the name of 'a particular person'. One does not have to be a genius to guess that it will be much more acceptable if the nomination is a safe, uninspired, uncontroversial choice put forward by a conservative Prime Minister than if the nomination is made by a Labor Prime Minister. That does not reflect on the honesty of a  Chairman  of the Public Service Board; it simply reflects the fact of his background, his contacts and the magic circle from which these established candidates are supposed to spring. 
The nomination procedures give far too much authority to the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board and to the mandarins in the Public Service to perpetuate their own caste. We can understand why Government Ministers will feel comfy and cosy with men, many of whom went to the same schools as they attended, many of whom own rural areas just outside Canberra that have been acquired for their recreation or acquired by marriage. It is no accident that many of the rural areas adjacent to Canberra are called Little Venice. It is not simply the professional men resident in Canberra who give them that reputation; it is also the highly paid public servants who have invested in the areas and who have the same kind of social background as persons who participate in conservative ministries. 
It appears that there is a new code word in what was, for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  a remarkably temperate speech. My honourable friend, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  referred to the unfortunate fact that this legislation was a consequence of the sloganeering indulged in by honourable members opposite during the last election campaign. One of their great slogans was 'no more jobs for the boys'. But, when it comes to reading what the Prime Minister had to say in his second reading speech in this debate, one finds that he never used the phrase.  His  new speech writers have cleaned it up and, in as unemotive language as we are ever likely to hear from the Prime Minister, we hear this new expression 'due process', the meaning of which is revealed to no one other than the Prime Minister. It is like the other magic code words 'appropriate' and 'proper'. There are no such things. They reflect, in any event, purely subjective judgments of what ought to be an appropriate procedure. Due process' means nothing. If one looks at these procedures one will see how unsatisfactory they are. What are the consequences of these procedures? The limitation on tenure of 5 years in the case of persons who are not established candidates is not something that I find unobjectionable. My personal objection is that I would apply the same limitations on tenure to all permanent heads. As the honourable member for Gellibrand said, that would be roughly in accord with another recommendation of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. 
The most important misrepresentation which Government members have made in this debate concerns the other disability which applies to a non-established candidate appointed as a permanent head, and that is that his appointment may be terminated on a change of government. If I can save the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters  (Mr Street)  using up time wastefully in giving an explanation, I will concede that paragraph (b) of proposed sub-section 54 (9) contemplates the situation to which my honourable friend, the honourable member for Burke, addressed himself. In fact, I think paragraph (b) refers to the situation where a Country Party person becomes Prime Minister. I do not want the Minister to waste any time on that; I want him to deal with our substantive objections. 
It occurs to me that it is passing odd, as the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  would say, that we refer in this legislation to political parties. It wil be remembered that in electoral legislation political parties' is one of those subjects which defy definition. It is much too difficult. We cannot name the political parties on ballot-papers. It may lead to people voting for the candidate whom they really want. 'Political parties' is nowhere defined in this legislation and nowhere defined in any Federal legislation. The meaning wil simply have to be discovered by the courts. I suppose that for present purposes it is clear enough that all members of the present ministry are members of the Liberal Party of Australia or the National Country Party of Australia. but it occurs to me that at some time we may have a Prime Minister of a conservative government who comes from, say, what is presently called the Country Party in Western Australia, from which Party there are no Ministers in this Ministry. In those circumstances, and given the tendency for the Country Party to change its name every other week- we do not know what it may be called in the future- we could be faced with exactly the situation to which my honourable and learned friend, the honourable member for Burke, with all of his forensic abilities, addressed himself. 
There is another major misrepresentation with which I want the Minister to deal in his reply, and that is the suggestion that persons who are not established candidates and who are appointed as permanent heads will be subject to having their appointments terminated on a change of government. In faa, the legislation does not lead to that result. What happens is that the option to terminate the appointments of permanent heads who were not established candidates need not be exercised at the time of a change of government or within a reasonable time thereafter but merely before the expiration of the period of the appointment, which could be 4Vi years after a change of government. The situation surrounding some of the appointments which have so agitated honourable members opposite is the kind of situation that would arise here. That clearly cannot be what they are talking about when they talk about a change of government leading to the termination of these appointments. My own view, of course, is that every incoming government ought to have the right to terminate the appointment of any permanent head, whether he has been stigmatised as an established candidate or not. The effective thing that occurs to me, however, is not simply die political complexion of the government which appoints a permanent head but the performance in office of a permanent head both during the period of the government that appointed him and, after a change of government, under the new government. It seems to me that that will be a much more relevant consideration than the fact of who appointed that person as permanent head. 
This measure has been thoroughly misrepresented by all Government speakers in this debate. They simply do not understand it. The appointment procedures give much too much power to the political mandarins. That does not reflect on their honesty. The consequences of a person being stigmatised in this game of statutory name calling as either established candidates or non-established candidates are also far too draconian. As to the questions of the reasonableness of permanent heads having their tenure limited or incoming governments being able to change permanent heads, I believe that both those options ought to be available to any incoming government. This is a thoroughly shabby piece of legislation, quite fitting of this Government but undeserving of the support of the House. 
-Tonight I do not wish to speak about parsimonious bank managers. However, I do wish to speak about the management of money and particularly of welfare funds by the Federal Government. It is my unfortunate duty to draw to the attention of the House this evening the very critical position in which an innovative welfare project in my electorate has been placed as a result of a Government decision communicated to that group today. In the electorate of Grayndler and in some of the adjoining electorates, including some parts of the electorate of St George, a project is conducted by a group called Kids Activities Newtown. 
The magic yellow bus which, as the honourable member for Barton knows, has been positioned in front of Parliament House for the past couple of days. I had the pleasure of launching that bus but a few months ago, and so soon it seems that we will now see the hopes of everybody concerned with the project dashed as a result not simply of a hard-hearted decision of this Government but of a particularly ill-advised one. It is in that kind of spirit that I now want to again go over for the benefit of Government supporters as well as for members of the Opposition the essence of this project. I urge that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  reconsider her decision. 
Honourable members should have regard for the physical environment that exists in inner city Sydney. It is an environment particularly lacking in open recreational space and the access to that space is made very difficult by the large number of arterial and sub-arterial roads that run through these districts. This means that in the interest of safety, children often are kept at home or within the close proximity of their home by parents. It is unlikely, as is the case in more fortunately equipped environments, that they can walk to open spaces. At the same time, it is an area, in the main, of fairly low income people and a great many families in which the mother also is a breadwinner. These people are not able to provide in every case the supervised recreation that is available in more affluent families. This is not only because of the lack of proximity to physical recreational facilities but also because of the lack of time available to take children to the limited facilities available. 
In this peculiar physical environment there has been developed a project to take children from the narrow physical environment in which they move to the limited open space that is available and, when at this open space, to confront their senses with new opportunities, with innovative toys, with toys of a size and scale which no home, not even the most affluent one, generally has, and with games that excite the imagination. It is a project designed to open up to the children of families which are amongst the most deprived in our community an opportunity for at least some recreation which can develop their intelligence and their senses. This is done through a bus which moves around the district, picks up children and takes them to other areas under supervision. The project also serves as a communication facility for the parents, to put them in contact with each other, to help them plug into the welfare services which are so puzzling. Every member of this House comes into contact day after day with befuddled constituents. 
Today the Minister for Social Security, instead of acceding to the request for a grant of $28,000 which previously was paid through the Australian Assistance Plan, has given this project a once only grant of $5,000. That is simply not enough for the maintenance of the vehicle and for the materials used by this project. It will not cover any wage or salary costs of any staff connected with it. The Minister suggests that the Australian Assistance Plan has been taken over by the State governments. In fact, in her notorious statement of 21 April 1976 nothing was suggested other than that the matter should be negotiated with the States. No State will take on a commitment to extra funding when it knows that if it does so the Federal Government will chop its financial assistance by that amount. I urge the Minister in the name of all compassion, to reconsider this very worthwhile project which is the antithesis of waste and extravagance. 
The Opposition welcomes the opportunity to debate this measure. As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, we find it odd that it comes before us for discussion in the form of a Bill on which debate is to be adjourned at the second reading stage without a vote on it and which, after the Parliament is prorogued and the new session commences, will be re-introduced with amendments, some perhaps suggested by members of this House and of course some suggested by persons outside the House. The whole atmosphere in which the Government has reviewed trade practices legislation has been less than satisfactory, very much as a result of the campaign rhetoric in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  indulged in 1975. Both of them and other senior members of the present Government were at great pains to paint the Trade Practices Commission as one of the new octopuses of government set up by the Labor Government to strangle business and free enterprise. Since that time the responsibilities of office have moderated their views, and they have had to seek to move away from that extravagant rhetoric of the campaign trail. Nonetheless, the performance in office exhibits, I believe, a good deal of that prejudice which was spread in 1975. It is important that we look at the whole ambience of the review of trade practices, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide suggested. Where was the great public call for the review of this legislation? How many pieces of legislation do honourable members genuinely believe call for a major overhaul within 18 months of their passage and of their coming into operation? 
There are many provisions in this legislation which are welcome. Most of them are very small. The major provisions are ones that I believe are altogether too premature or ones that ought not to be enacted. 
The attitude of the Government towards the Trade Practices Commission has been disgraceful. The Commission has been consistently starved of staff and funds. Its opportunity to go out into the market place and find out what is happening has been circumscribed as a result of government activities. The argument which I can anticipate the Minister putting now is that the Commission has not been disadvantaged any more than any other department. To compare a fledgling statutory commission with the wellestablished department of State is, I believe, not to compare like with like. Plainly a new commission, to get itself established and to start its legislation working depends upon the support of the Government in terms of staff and finance. That has not been forthcoming. 
The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  said that the Opposition in this debate had not put forward any positive propositions. Let me say that we will be proposing several. I believe the honourable member for Port Adelaide made at least several substantial suggestions about the merger provisions of the Trade Practices Act. For my part, I want to put very plainly that the Opposition opposes completely the repeal of section 49 of the Trade Practices Act. Before I get to that, I would like to look at several other provisions. It is worth repeating what Attorney-General Murphy put very well, I believe, in 1974, when he had the carriage of this matter in the Senate, about the reason section 49 was introduced into this legislation. He said: 
The provision aims to prevent unscrupulous suppliers from attempting to gain an unfair advantage over their competitors by discriminating among buyers and to prevent  unscruplous  buyers from using their economic power to exact discriminatory prices from suppliers to the disadvantage of less powerful buyers. 
I think that everybody in this chamber would subscribe to that objective. The honourable member for Cowper, who spoke in such glowing terms about the value of free enterprise, would no doubt subscribe to it. We cannot look at simple predatory pricing, which will be covered by the monopolisation provisions to some extent. It is essential that we look, in the Australian context, in which we have such an oligopolistic market structure, at price discrimination. 
During this debate we will no doubt receive many learned treatises about foreign Acts, particularly in the United States and in Britain. One of the Acts about which we will hear a lot is the Robinson-Patman Act of 1936 in the United States. I think it is important, when we do that, that we look at when that legislation was enactednamely, 1936- and for how long, over 40 years, it has been a subject of continuing debate in the United States. There is, I believe, a general acceptance that it has been useful in the area of price discrimination in the United States, but it certainly took, at the least, 25 to 30 years for that to come about. In looking at that time frame we have to look at the difficulties caused by an intervening war and at the post-war period when it was not relied on and when it was not a matter of great litigation, but I believe the essential justification for legislation on price discrimination remains as valid today as it was in the United States 40 years ago. 
-The honourable member for Higgins has interjected to say that it is not justified. He belongs to a political Party which in 1974 opposed every provision in the Trade Practices Bill, not simply that provision which ended up as section 49. Section 49 is a difficult section. If one looks at the guidelines published, at material emanating from the Trade Practices Commission, one will see that the section certainly has caused the Commission a great deal of trouble. I have no doubt that it has also caused all firms a great deal of difficulty in interpretation and in applying it to their market situation. Of course it has, but so have so many other sections of the Trade Practices Act. The Act set out to create new rules for the conduct of business in Australia, rules which were designed to ensure healthier competition in the market place throughout the country. After a very limited period, since this provision came into force only in February 1975, I believe that for the Government to have made up its mind as recently as last year that it would repeal the section is altogether too premature. 
Let us look at the basis upon which the Government has decided to repeal section 49 which deals with price discrimination. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said*. 
That prohibition has worked to inhibit price flexibility, and has not encouraged competition. 
I think there is no evidence that it has inhibited price flexibility. I do not believe that the Swanson Committee provides any evidence. There is the alternative argument. It may not be able to be established at this point that it has encouraged price flexibility. For the Minister to say that it has not encouraged competition is nonsense. If one looks at any standard text on trade practices in Australia one will see that no cases have been decided on this section. How can we know whether it is working? The compass which the section seeks to cover is rather limited. These are the only reasons which the Minister gave for the Government's decision. The next reason which the Minister gave, I believe, is less than completely stated. The Minister said: 
In fact the review committee stated that this law has actually been used as a pretext to abolish discounts and effectively raise prices. 
That is not what the Swanson Committee said. I have my arguments with members of that Committee, but I believe that in general the document which they have produced is a useful discussion document for looking at this difficult area of competition law. Undoubtedly the weakest chapter is chapter 7. I want to look now at the question about which the Minister talked, the pretext of abolishing discounts. This is what the Swanson Committee said in paragraph 7. 12:  . . . when section 49 came into effect, some suppliers, either through ignorance or desire to do so, took the law to mean that they were required to charge similar prices to all customers or at least to competing customers. This led to price rigidity, which was the subject of comment by a number of submissions, and the  reduction  in or abolition of many discounts which in turn resulted in overall price increases. 
So far so good. That supports what the Minister said. The Swanson Committee also said: 
Some of the discounts which were abolished or reduced at that time were substantial. Apart from that initial round of increases of price, the Committee is unable to determine what the net effect has been since that time of the operation of this section on the general level of prices. 
Let us compare the 2 statements. The Minister, in justifying the Government's decision to repeal section 49, said that this law had actually been used as a pretext to abolish discounts and effectively raise prices. The Swanson Committee, upon which the Minister purports to rely, says:  ... the Committee is unable to determine what the net effect has been since that time of operation of this section on the general level of prices. 
So the Minister has not only argued it skimpily but also I believe he has been very very loose in dealing with the Committee's report as a basis for his decision. 
The House would also I believe do well to have regard when considering section 49 to the considered remarks of the Trade Practices Commission. The honourable member for Port Adelaide referred earlier to the comments that the Commission made in relation to the Swanson Committee's report. It is true, as he says, that quite unusually people thought that everybody ought to be able to participate in this great debate on trade practices law except the experts themselves- except the Trade Practices Commission. Let us look at what the Trade Practices Commission had to say. The Commission states, I think perhaps rather better than the Minister did, what can be argued as the case against section 49. It was put like this:  . . . that price discrimination brings price flexibility, and that price flexibility is at the very heart of competitive behaviour. 
That is how the Commission thinks it can put the best face on the argument to repeal section 49. The Commission went on to concede that that is a powerful argument. But it says there is a contrary argument. It states: 
Put shortly, it is that a law controlling price discrimination will have a long term influence on structural trends that will be pro-competitive by ensuring survival of small business interests that can continue to compete. 
That long term trend is so important. This whole area of competition law with which we are dealing is not something in which we will see rapid changes in market place behaviour since the Trade Practices Act came into operation, both in 1974 and certain provisions such as that relating to price discrimination in 1975. What is important and what everyone on this side of the House says in relation to all Government measures relating to the economy is that, of course, we must look at the long term effect. That is what the Commission said in relation to price discrimination. From that we can see that the Commission is stating clearly that it regards any decision to repeal section 49 as being premature. I think we are indebted to the Commission for stating so plainly in these circumstances its attitude on that question. 
In the past I have been, if anything, critical of the Commission for being somewhat timorous in putting forward proposals or, certainly in criticising the Government. Perhaps I can interpolate here that I think one of the more reprehensible actions of the Commission- I know that this is something in which I have the support of persons such as the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)-  is its decision to anticipate the passage by this Parliament of legislation proposed by the Government. I refer here to the proposed treatment of public hearings of authorisation applications. The Government proposes to do away with public hearings by the Commission. The Trade Practices Commission, it would appear, has gone along with the Government's decision on the basis that it anticipates that the Parliament will agree with the Government. That is altogether too premature. Certain newspaper commentators have drawn attention to this. I am only surprised that the commentators in the  Australian Financial Review  overlook the fact that this is a continuing attitude of the Government towards supposedly independent statutory bodies. Last year when the Government amended the Prices Justification Act the same thing happened. The Government proposed certain new procedures in relation to the workings of the Prices Justification Tribunal and that Tribunal fell over on its back and said: 'All right, we will anticipate the passage of those procedures by the Parliament and go along with them anyhow'. If we get a tribunal presided over by a judge to go along with the Government with that kind of reprehensible behaviour I do not suppose we can expect a higher standard of independence from a commission headed by a man who was a civil servant. 
I revert to the question of section 49 and the way in which the Swanson Committee came to its very tentatively argued conclusion. The Trade Practices Commission refers particularly to the fact that it believes that in making its recommendations on the question of price discrimination the Swanson Committee very likely went beyond its term of reference. In doing that the Commission points to the fact that the Committee gave some weight to the fact that small business had made very few submissions in favour of the continuance of section 49 and that certain business firms which could be identified as being part of what one calls small business had in fact proposed that section 49 should be repealed. The Trade Practices Commission made the very good point- it is one worth repeating- that it may not fairly have been anticipated by small business that the Swanson Committee would be even having regard to this question. For the Committee then to place any reliance upon the fact that certain parties had not come up with submissions is very poor evidence indeed. 
I want to come back to what the Swanson Committee says because its conclusion on this matter is nowhere near as firmly stated as the Minister would have us believe. At paragraph 7.20 which is headed 'Conclusion' the Committee states: 
The Committee considers that in the Australian context the conduct of a large buyer who is endeavouring to secure price cutting in his favour, whether it be discriminatory or not, may be more pro-competitive than anti-competitive. 
The Committee says 'may', and it is arguing on an empirical basis which is altogether inadequate. If the Minister when he accepted that recommendation of the Committee- that very tentatively stated recommendation by the Committee to abolish section 49- was in any doubt about the attitude of small business to section 49, I am sure that he has been left in none since. If he has been lobbied as effectively as members of the Opposition have by various small business groups, particularly by organisations of small independent retailers, he will know that there is now a very grave disquiet out there in the market place about the Government's intentions in relation to the section. It is instructive to look at some of these approaches. I hold in my hand a submission from the Confectionery and Mixed Business Association of Australia. This organisation has provided to all honourable members- I know because I have a copy of what it sent to the Minister- a most tightly argued proposition that the very survival of small business, which I suggest is something about which we hear from the Government supporters quite often, is at stake, at least in respect of the retail sphere, if section 49 is abolished. I ask all honourable members to have some regard for the prospects of the survival of those sturdy independent yeomanry when they come to consider this matter and particularly when they consider it again next year. I ask them to have regard for the smaller man, the man in the corner store, the man who is not merely a manager but who owns his business, the man who puts his capital at risk. This is the sort of man whom honourable members opposite talk about all the time. Do not let us have any of this talk about Labor being anti-business. Labor introduced the Trade Practices Act in 1974 to promote competition in business and to ensure the survival of healthy competition in Australia. 
I believe that there is no proposition, including the frivolous one in relation to union boycotts which the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  will deal with, that the Government has placed in this piece of legislation that is less deserving of the House's support than the proposition to repeal section 49. To do so now is premature. It would mean that we would deprive ourselves of the opportunity to have expert surveillance of a significant part of market behaviour which can work through to the advantage of all consumers and to the advantage of Australian industry generally. 
It gives me great pleasure to join in this debate and to oppose clause 7 as strongly as I can. It has been very touching to be mentioned so often in the debate tonight. Following the last election, it was my privilege to move from one small compact electoral division, the division of Wentworth, on the basis that it was less than well represented, into another small compact division, the division of Grayndler, there to give representation to the electors. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who has just resumed his seat, argues for the representation of what are sometimes called non-numerical factors in the Parliament. As my friend the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  interjected, that means effectively the representation of sheep, babbling brooks and mountain peaks. I am reminded very much of what was said by my predecessor,  Mr Fred  Daly, that only sheep would ever vote for a Country Party candidate. 
I am delighted to have these interjections because they serve to underline the most important thing that we are sent her to do, and that is to represent people, not inanimate objects, not the products about which Country Party members may know something. We never hear a Country Party member in this place talking about the problems of rural health, about which the Hospitals and Health Services Commission established by the Labor Government brings down reports. We never hear them talk about those sorts of issues. The Parliament exists to serve people, and if one looks at the Constitution, it provides that this House, the House of Representatives, is to represent people, not simply electors. There are a great many people resident in Australia who, because they do not come from countries which confer British nationality or Irish citizenship, have not had the opportunity to register to vote in this country as soon as they might. I represent one of those divisions, and the vast bulk of my constituency work is concerned with representing the very great needs of persons who have come from overseas to make new lives in this country for themselves and their children. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  wonder if the honourable member would tie his remarks to clause 7. 
I will endeavour to do that. Clause 7 is the most infamous clause in this wretched Bill. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  will be more embarrassed about clause 1 1, because no decent lawyer could support that piece of legislation, but in principle clause 7 is the one that is most objectionable. It seeks to override the very fair provisions of the existing section 19 of the Electoral Act. Section 19 of the Electoral Act lays down very fair considerations to which the Distribution Commissioners have regard when they draw up new electoral divisions. It talks about community of interests, including economic, social and regional interests. It talks about means of communication. It does not talk about means of communication as meaning that people are to be compensated because the distances they travel are much greater. That is a job for the Remuneration Tribunal, and as every member on this side of the House has made clear, we support in every way giving every piece of extra assistance that is necessary to assist those people who represent physically large electorates. Most of them are represented brilliantly in this House by Labor members of Parliament- by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick). 
-We are talking about the representation of people and people's needs. I make no apology for standing here and saying that I choose to be an urban dweller. That does not make me in any way superior to people who live in the country but it does not make me in any way inferior. I do not for one moment propose that we should be regarded as having a vote that ought to be worth less than the votes of rural dwellers. If members are presented with problems in representing these electorates in terms of the facilities that ought to be made available, then let us finance them. Let us give them extra staff assistance, let us give them greater electoral allowances, as we have done, and in some cases more staff. 
-Yes, and greater travel entitlements. Those sorts of things are proper compensation, but no single member can get up here and argue that that is a democratic principle. When this measure was debated in the Senate last night one of the more fearlessly honest members of the conservative parties,  Senator Wood,  said that he did not believe in democracy, he believed that we ought to have tribunes who stand up in the Parliament and represent industries or production figures or something like that. He was being honest. Why do not the conservative members in this House do the same thing and stand and say that they do not believe that people ought to be represented here, because that belief is quite apparent. 
One of the most extraordinary things is the idea that in some way electors represent the sum total of people's problems. In my own electorate a huge number of persons are not citizens. They are not eligible to register and to vote. Statistics are very hard to come by, and the Government does not possess any statistics on this question after 1971. It is very hard to find them, and I am indebted here to the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  who had a question on this matter answered the other day. The answer shows that there are tens of thousands of people in inner city electorates who are not electors. They place a considerable strain - 
-One of the advantages that I have in this House is being able to understand every piece of legislation on which I speak. In that respect I have an advantage over the honourable member for La Trobe from whom I have never heard an interjection nor a single substantive speech in which he has exhibited the slightest understanding of the matter about which he is speaking.  His  own colleagues realise that and realise what a clown he is. Proposed new section 19 concerns matters to be considered in a distribution in a State. The factors that I think the distribution commissioners ought to have regard to are the needs of people and not the needs of inanimate objects which Country Party supporters and their stooges in the Liberal Party, like the honourable member for La Trobe, talk about. 
I never thought I would come into this Parliament to talk about ears of barley corn or dead cows. I came to talk about the needs of human beings not all of whom, as I stressed, are yet citizens of this country, but many of whom want to become citizens and want their children to become citizens. Those children are educated under the migrant education programs- programs which honourable members opposite know nothing about and programs which they oppose at every turn. That is why this proposed new section 19 (2) that the Government seeks to insert into the Act is a most disgraceful section. It will in many ways, I believe, operate to the detriment of urban areas much more than the pre-existing 20 per cent tolerance did. 
One. of the things the distribution commissioners have to have regard to is the trends in population. No honest Distribution Commissioner will be able to disregard the fact that the outer metropolitan seats in metropolitan areas expand in population very quickly between redistributions. They will therefore have to exercise a tolerance of 10 per cent below the quota for outer metropolitan seats. That means that the inner metropolitan seats, which will have to be larger because all country seats have to be smaller than outer metropolitan seats, will then have the tolerance exercised against them. So it will be the quota plus. This means that an already disgraceful position in which people are under-represented in the Parliament- people who have not yet had the chance to become citizens- will be exacerbated and their position will be that much worse. This will not operate in the electorate of Wentworth. The electorate of Wentworth has fewer people than the electorate of Grayndler. It is a much larger area. The reason for this is that it has more open space recreational areas and it has fewer people who have not yet become citizens. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
At the commencement of my remarks, I think it appropriate to repeat the wording of the matter of public importance which is being discussed: 
The Government 's incompetent handling of the Lebanese refugee problem. 
Like those who have preceded me in this debate and particularly the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  I lay emphasis on the word incompetent'. No one on this side has attributed any ill will or other kind of motivation to the Government or any of its Ministers in the evolution of its policy on this question, although I believe that one could arguably say that the incompetence has been of such an order that such a motive must exist. I do not want to spend too much time on the remarks of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  except to say that I find it absolutely incredible that he should say, after hundreds of interviews with persons of Lebanese extraction in his electorate, that they are satisfied with the Government's handling of this question. All I can say is that he must be very easily misled. 
There is no question that there is a tremendous amount of confusion in the Lebanese community about the Government's policies and particularly about the administration of those policies. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  in an expression worthy of his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  'the full global situation' of persons of quasi refugee status- that is about as dehumanising a phrase as I can think of- talked about the selectivity of the Australian Labor Party when it was in power. Not surprisingly, one of the war criminals in this House stood up and talked about the Vietnamese situation. If there has been any selectivity in caring for refugees around the world it has been by this Government in its approach towards people whose homes were devastated in the Friuli region of Italy or towards those who were the victims of the tragic events in Cyprus. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, in deference to you and with the usual respect I have for your rulings I withdraw the inference. However, honourable members can draw their own inference about and choose their own words to describe the behaviour of a person who was not a career officer or a conscript and who went off to fight in a disgraceful war. 
-The honourable member is always interjecting in this House.  His  name is never down on the speakers' list.  His  interjections remind me every time of the disrespect that the Establishment has for this Parliament. It sends us all its idiot sons. No doubt he could not be found a place in the Army or the Church. They would not trust him to protect their millions in the commercial establishments which they control; so they sent him to the Parliament. 
The Minister was very strong on statistics but, as he should concede and as I think perhaps he would concede, this question cannot be resolved by looking at statistics. It is a question of tremendous concern to persons in Australia. Again I was alarmed to realise that the honourable member for St George thinks that the situation of thousands of persons in Cyprus does not concern people in Australia. Of course it does, as he ought to know from his constituency representations. It is in that respect that the Minister ought to be concerned. The cosmetic part of his mie, that which relates to ethnic affairs, shows that he ought to be concerned about the real fears of people here. The Minister spoke about the levelling off in numbers of applications in Cyprus. Why would that not occur? Anybody who has had any dealings with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and with the distressing situation of relatives in Australia knows that people who go to Cyprus stay there and month after month are told to report back again and again to the High Commissioner there. So no one will be going to Cyprus. Of course they will stay in the Lebanon when they know that they cannot have these matters dealt with in Cyprus. 
The Minister mentioned the deception that has been involved. To his credit, he conceded that in situations of great personal distress people occasionally tell fibs and white lies. The reason why this situation has arisen is not only that people have been desperate but that the Department has not been able to handle compassionately and to communicate with the Lebanese community in Australia. The letter which the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  tabled points up one of the demands of the Lebanese community in Melbourne, that there ought to be additional interpreter staff within the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs available to assist sponsors in this country who are concerned about their relatives in the Lebanon or who have escaped from the Lebanon. All of us see instances of the examples which the honourable member for Lang gave us, of middle men, illegal profits and bribery. No honourable member here would not be suspicious of some of the people who have introduced constituents to him. This kind of profiteering goes on. One of the reasons for it is that people with language difficulties are unable to communicate effectively with the Department. Because of the Department's lack of resources they have to use middle men who in some instances behave quite unscrupulously. I believe that it was to that kind of situation that the honourable member for Lang was referring and that he certainly was not insisting that there had been corruption of members of the Australian Public Service. 
I am delighted that the continuous efforts of members of this House and particularly of the honourable member for Melbourne have borne fruit and that we shall now have a reopened embassy in the Lebanon, perhaps as early as May. This points out the extraordinarily casual attitude of the Government towards the situation. Everybody remembers the shortlived operation at the Netherlands Embassy in Damascus in Syria where facilities were made available for a short time for the processing of applications of Lebanese refugees. The fact is that this procedure was in force for such a short time that, by the time it had become well known and communicated throughout the Lebanese community, by the time the people had communicated with their relatives in the Lebanon and they had made arrangements to go to Syria, by the time they had gone or were en route, the facility was closed down. Some months later the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  blithely announced that Australia proposed to establish an embassy in Syria. Of course, that facility or some similar kind of facility in another friendly nation's embassy should have been made available throughout the whole of last year in Syria, the most accessible country to the Lebanon. 
The Minister's relaxed arrangements which he announced in September called for the establishment of a task force to administer them in Nicosia. At that time he made it quite clear that those arrangements would operate only until the end of the year. I suppose that could be fairly done on the basis that he did not know for how long the troubles in the Lebanon would continue, nor how long it would be before an Australian Embassy was re-established there. But he knows now that it is not likely to be until at least May that facilities will exist m the Lebanon, yet he has not extended that deadline for the lodging of ap- plications under the relaxed rules in Nicosia. He as extended it merely to the end of February. Again we are faced with the same situation that by the time these relaxed policies have been communicated throughout the Lebanese community and persons' relatives have been able to act on them and to get to Cyprus, they are arriving just as these rules are being changed. The administration of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Canberra and its regional offices, at least to my knowledge in Sydney, has been much less than adequate. Persons have been advised by letters dated March that they ought to have their relatives proceed to Nicosia and to lodge their applications before the end of February which, of course, is a nonsense. 
The arrangements have not been good enough; they have been incompetently administered. The question of relaxation of rules and all that kind of thing can only be effective so long as the administration and the back-up is up to scratch and clearly that has not been the case here. The Minister ought to have known about it. One of the reasons that he gave when he established the task force in Nicosia was that communication between Australia and Nicosia was so much superior to that available in any of the other adjacent Mediterranean countries. That is not a bad reason. I know that my relatively less well-off constituents have no difficulty in telephoning Nicosia daily to hear reports of their relatives' applications but the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Australia is forever losing files and unable to be brought up to date. Not only does the Department have access to the telephone system but also it has telex and other sophisticated means of communication. Nicosia proved to be a good enough place for communication for the persons who were worried about the situation of their relatives but the Department has not performed well at all. From everything I have heard, the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne about the task force in Cyprus are quite right. As he said, they are completely overburdened. They are being reduced in numbers and I regret to say that the Minister ought to be aware of the less than satisfactory performance of his Department here in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am delighted to join in this debate on the Government's foreign policy. I belong to a generation of Australians who had the opportunity to travel abroad when they were young. I first went overseas when the presentation of an Australian passport in any foreign country put you in the category of people in other conservative countries. You were immediately put in the category of the persons from that part of the map which used to be coloured pink or red and which was primarily populated by persons of the European race. In other words, they were the white conservative selfish nations of the world. In this debate I have the opportunity to join in while all that has been changed. It was changed dramatically of course by the directions irreversibly set under a Labor government for 3 years. I do not want to give a kiss of death to the present Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  but I think it fair to say that he has not wanted to set that trend back, and he has not done so. The trend was set irreversibly. Australia cannot go back to joining that backwater of nations to which it used to be consigned. One used to feel, I regret, a sense of shame at being an Australian in enlightened company overseas. That is no longer the case and I suspect will no longer be the case. 
No matter what proposition the Foreign Minister has to defend in this House I am sure that in his face to face negotiations with the governments of other countries he strikes a relatively balanced note. The main problem that confronts Australia in its conduct of foreign relations at this time is the tendency and willingness of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to see every issue in black and white  terms, in terms of  good and bad, in terms of a gross oversimplification which should have disappeared in the last half decade from the conduct of foreign relations and from sophisticated commentary about them. 
Honourable members who have preceded me in this debate have spoken at some length about the new directions of foreign policy being signalled by the new President of the United States, and clearly for us here in Australia that will be terribly important. We are a great ally of the United States and I hope we will always remain so. Any informed liberal developments in the policy of that country should be welcomed by all persons in this country. I believe that during the past couple of weeks the popular Press has oversimplified the direction of that policy. Popular news magazines display the headline 'Carter: The New Morality'. That is a tremendous oversimplification. 
American foreign policy has always been informed by a tremendous morality, for good or ill- I believe during the early part of the 1950s for ill- but at least the difference between the morality that the Americans espoused and that pursued by conservatives in what used to be the British Empire was based upon a principle albeit somewhat perverse. The Americans have pursued consistently since the Second World War the view that they will assist those nations which most deserve it. All that has changed is the subjective American assessment of the countries which deserve it. The Americans have come to look at those countries which observe most rigorously or at least most decently human rights. They have moved away simply from their view that the countries most deserving of support were those which had the most virulently anticommunist governments. 
That kind of tendency clearly is one which we in the Labor Party will support. It was one argued by social democrats throughout the 1950s and the 1960s. It was one that saw a brief resurgence during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations. It was a policy that went sour in South East Asia, one of the pans of the world closest to Australia, not least because of the silence and the acquiescence of the then Australian Government in the disgraceful and shortsighted policies pursued by the American Government. There is now a new American Government and those members of it, such as the new Secretary of State, who had any pan to play in those early policies of the 1960s have recanted completely. I believe it would be a very good thing for this nation if those in this country who now have control of the destiny of our foreign policy were prepared to make exactly the same kind of clean breast of their own pasts and were prepared to admit that they were wrong, that the policies that sent Australians to die in South East Asia in that war in Vietnam and the policies that encouraged American intervention in Cambodia to overthrow the Sihanouk regime were wrong. 
That kind of clean breast will go a good deal of the way to giving the Australian Government the kind of credibility that all of us in Australia, Government and Opposition, Tory and Labor, would wish for our image in Asia. If the Americans, who, in terms of men and material committed to that war, made a much greater effort than Australia, are prepared to do so, why cannot Australia take the initiative here, particularly in seeking to reconcile the United States with the now united new state of Vietnam? I believe that would be a significant contribution on the part of this Government to world peace. 
The popular Press seeks to over-simplify. I mentioned earlier that it talks about the Carter Administration in the United States being the first to discover morality. In fact, it is only a different perception of morality, a different perception of the states deserving of the support of the United States Government and hopefully, its allies around the world. The over-simplification leads, of course, to the view that someone like Secretary of State Kissinger was only interested in realpolitik. The practice of foreign relations in the world, whether by great powers like the United States or by middle powers like Australia, is a mixture of the two and it always will be so. What Australia must remember is that as a middle power we can never pretend that the clout we will have in terms of realpolitik can be as great as our moral influence. So long as we remain committed to the mainstream of western democratic ideals we can never underestimate our power to have influence and effect in that alliance. 
The Foreign Minister touched on many parts of the world and many aspects of the development of foreign policy. The aspect which interested me as much as any was the attitude of this Government towards trade with less developed countries. I can say to the House that as one of the younger men in this Parliament, one of the things that concerns a great many of my friends of my own age when I talk to them about large issues is that they say 'Look, what happens in Australia does not matter. It is only a matter of degree in this country. What matters is what happens outside. There the questions are so much larger. There the differences in standards of living are so much greater.' I believe that to an extent they are right but to an extent, of course, it is a copping out of making assessments and judgments in our own society in Australia. I believe that we ought to make some sacrifices in this country. We ought to have regard for the fact that we are, in spite of our present economic difficulties which we experience with the rest of the industrialised western world, a peculiarly fortunate society existing as we do as a piece of western European civilisation on the fringe of Asia. 
The decisions that we need to make if we are to make any contribution towards the lifting of living standards in the less developed countries will be hard decisions for us and for our constituents to bear. They will not be easy. I am not talking simply about textile industries in South Korea and Hong Kong or about electronics industries in Singapore, Thailand or Hong Kong. I am talking about the prospects of developing labour intensive industries which can improve the conditions of people's lives in the big countries to our near north, in Indonesia, Malaysia and, most importantly if we are to have peace in this part of the world, in Indo-China including Vietnam. Hopefully, one day this will include an again civilised Cambodia and Laos. It is here, after the thousands of words that he spoke yesterday, that the Foreign Minister skates over the hard decisions. This Fraser Liberal Government often says that there are no easy options and it uses that as a code to cut back on public expenditure and on the development of community services in Australia. 
The Australian people may forgive the Government for that for one, two or three years. Who knows? But out neighbours in Asia will not forgive us if we engage in empty rhetoric about giving better trading terms to Asian nations at the same time as we are setting up needless and selfish barriers against those countries. That kind of policy and that kind of government decision making is being perceived very clearly now in Asian capitals. It is being perceived in China which has a system that we do not share and which, while we understand the historical origins, we clearly do not aspire to emulate. It is being perceived in other Asian nations which have such different social systems although some, at least, share perhaps the trappings of our western parliamentary system or the newspaper systems and media treatment that we have. I say to all honourable members that we leave this debate tonight and return to an empty debate such as the Address-in-Reply debate and talk about things that narrowly concern us in this country and ignore the perception of this Government's decision in Asian capitals at our peril. It will be to the disadvantage not only of Australians now but also of those who are to follow. 
I started my speech by saying that there are certain elements of Australian policy which were irreversibly set during the 3 years of the Labor Government. I believe the most important of them, however tentatively taken, was that in relation to our trade relations and the development of the economies of our near neighbours. That remains the area in which we can have the greatest influence. I urge the Government to think again more seriously about this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Are total housing finance approvals by savings and trading banks and permanent building societies important indicators of the future of a business cycle? Between January 1976 and January 1977 did approvals fall by 21 per cent for saving banks, by 17 per cent for trading banks and by 17 per cent for permanent building societies? Do those figures suggest that the building industry is likely to become even more depressed than it has been recently? Will the Government consider changing its monetary or fiscal policy to cope with this deepening recession in the building industry? 
I find the Address-in-Reply debate an unsatisfactory kind of debate. I find it very odd that we have been called together for 3 weeks in this session of the Parliament and have had such a small amount of legislation placed before us for debate. Nonetheless, I suppose any standard text on Address-on-Reply debates and what the speech from the Throne is always supposed to be about would show that in mid-term the Parliament generally reviews the record of the Government, describes the foundations for its future programs on which it wishes to build and talks about the vision for the nation which the Government has and for which it proposes legislation which it will put to the Parliament during the remainder of the Parliament. Those who preceded me in this debate from the Opposition side have pursued the rather thankless and totally useless task of going through the text of the speech that the Queen was given to read a few weeks ago. In vain they have sought to find in it any description of programs being established, of programs under way, of the vision that this Government holds for the nation, of the directions in which it wants to take this nation for the rest of this century and perhaps into the next century. It is completely free of any such language. The only vision which we have heard in this debate came from the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who preceded me in this debate. He at least talked about dreaming, but he talked about a different kind of dreaming altogether. 
It is not my style in these kinds of debates to pursue personalities, but I suppose that if the Government is unwilling in a speech of the type about which we are talking now to place before the members of both Houses firm and specific programs which it proposes to put to us during the rest of this Parliament, we have to content ourselves with looking at what it has done in its first 18 months. I emphasise 18 months because this Government has been in power as long as the Tories who come to this Parliament would permit a Labor government to govern without going to the people again. So 18 months ought not to be, in the nature of the way the Government looks at things, merely a mid-term review, but a final and definitive judgment of its stewardship of the nation. So let us look at how well the Government has done. Let us look at each and every one of the ministries and at the way in which the Minister has set the directions of the department of state with which he is charged. 
Let us start with the leader of the Governmentthe Prime Minister- who stole his way into power in December 1975 by clamming up and saying nothing, who hoped that by not committing himself on the specifics he would not simply get in with a blank cheque, with a mandate to do whatever came into his head, but in fact to cut and to decimate so many of the programs that the Labor Government during the preceding 3 difficult years had just got started. Let us look at the directions that that man has set for this nation. Each and every one of us in this Parliament receives by courtesy of a service called the ministerial documents service- I interpolate here that that is exactly the kind of information service which was so deplored by honourable members opposite when they were in Opposition- the ministerial statements for the preceding day. The person interjecting is the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  He is talking about a service that the Prime Minister cut off. He cut off the distribution of ministerial statements, which is one of the things that this Government does consistently. I am talking in English so that even the Government Whip will understand me. Constantly in this place he shows nothing but contempt for the immigrants who come to this country and who are struggling to learn English. He exhibits contempt at every turn, out of the side of his mouth - 
-What I have just been saying about the honourable member for Bendigo - 
In response to your direction,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I withdraw. I was talking about the advantage that we all have now of reading the speeches delivered outside the Parliament by the Ministers and the real advantage that we enjoy by having also the speeches of the 4 Opposition leaders. One of the most amusing speeches that we get to read each week is the electoral talk from the Prime Minister. It would double with the speech which the Queen was given to read the other day. It is full of the same cliches. It is full of the same schoolboy rhetoric, suitable for speech days and other such blah occasions. It is the same kind of rhetoric which the Prime Minister so easily spouts but which means absolutely nothing. It is empty talk. Honourable members will remember that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  asked the Parliamentary Library staff if they would research the Prime Minister's speeches for cliches. After having gone through one week the Library service staff said that they had to give up, that they had collated so many examples that they were unprepared to go on. What does this kind of empty talk mean? 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  heads a party which he cannot control. The Prime Minister, in relation to the referendum proposals, on which we will be voting on 21 May, has made his position perfectly clear. To date he has been able to keep in line each of the Premiers who belong to the same political party as himself. But the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who goes out and supports this Government's policy, is unable to convince the Queensland Government to support the same kind of propositions. If during Labor's period in office any government headed by the same political party in a State disagreed with the Federal Government it was represented as some kind of calamity. But here we get none of that kind of talk from the Press, which connived in the coming to power of these men. The same person in his capacity as Minister for National Resources is going to preside over the disposition of a priceless national asset- the assets of the Pipeline Authority. He will oppose the development of that facility for the users of all energy in this country, not simply domestic users but also in industry. This is the same man who when in Opposition said that at a stroke the return of a conservative coalition government would see the immediate start-up of new mineral development projects. Where are they? Which Government supporters in this debate have instanced them? 
I am hearing from one of the prime examples of the flotsam that came in at the last election, who is spouting again the slogans on which they were elected. The Government falls completely into 2 categories. These are the old hardened men who do not really believe the rubbish, and they sit to my immediate left. Across on the other side are the people who believe 'Turn on the Lights' and such silly slogans. 
The third ranking member of the Government is the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch ). The Treasurer daily parades here his complete ignorance of economics. He is a man who connived at the grossest form of racism. I do not withdraw that word. He never misses an opportunity in this place to stand up and play ethnic politics at the basest level for the cheapest purposes by decrying the emergence as an economic power in the world of the Arab nations. As far as I am aware the only person who entertained Arab financiers recently in this country was the Treasurer when he was in Opposition. The only government cars in which they ever travelled were government cars booked through the office of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition when he occupied that position. The Treasurer has never missed an opportunity in this place to use the basest form of racism. It is something that does not do him any credit. It is something that is resented by the more intelligent members of the Jewish community in this country. The Treasurer would do better to own up to the fact that in every Eurodollar offering that the Government has floated in the past year- in a moment I will come to them and say how necessary they are- there has been a significant representation of Arabowned banks. Why should there not be, indeed? Of course there should be. 
-I think that the Whip is still eating his breakfast and talking out of the side of his mouth or at least obscuring what he is saying with that usual gross hand half across his gob. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am enjoying the interjections relating to the international financing expertise of the Treasurer. 
I say to the honourable member who interjects that I dare say I have read more offering circulars and more prospectuses than the Treasurer has seen in his life or been referred to by any third party. He has never read one in his life. The ones issued by this Government are an absolute disgrace and the borrowing policies pursued by this Government are an absolute disgrace because they are borrowing in currencies overseas- in case the honourable member does not know it the Government is borrowing in Swiss francs and Deutschmarks that are not required for our balance of trade purposes. They borrow at excessively high interest rates because we choose to have public offerings instead of private placements, and they are placed back on deposit at lower interest rates with exactly the same persons who have arranged the borrowings for us. 
This is an absolute disgrace and it represents an unnecessary charge on the Government revenues and expenditure of tens of millions of dollars which could be avoided. This is from a Government which talks about waste and extravagance. That is waste and extravagance. It is waste and extravagance directed at the beneficiaries who are the Government's old friends. They are the same bankers who own the companies who pay the finances of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party and who conspire to see that they are returned by foul means back into government in this place. 
The fourth ranking member in the Government is the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I suppose there has been no sorrier spectacle than the division wrought in this country by the opportunistic members of the Country Party or the National Country Party or whatever they call themselves and in addition by the Liberal members representing rural seats. They have driven divisions in this community that are totally unnecessary. For 3 years the fiction was put about - 
-For 3 years the fiction was put about- especially by the honourable member for Bendigo- that the difficulties being experienced by rural industries and the privations being suffered by persons in remote communities were in some special way the result of the Labor Government action here in Canberra, but of course whenever the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  who is seeking to interject asks these questions of the Minister for Primary Industry at question time he gets the response that now it is all the fault of world trade or the weather. Of course what the Minister for Primary Industry says is in part right. There are world trade cycles. World trade cycles did not start on 11 November 1975. They existed during the preceding 3 years. During that period there were changes in the weather and they had an effect on primary production. The Country Party has been caught out as the fraudulent party that the Labor Party has always maintained it to be. 
But what is disgraceful and what these men will carry with them to their graves is the certain knowledge that for short term political expedience they have driven this division into the community; they quite unnecessarily have turned elements in the country area against their fellow citizens in other States and in metropolitan areas. People in country areas are waking up to them, but at what price? Can a nation like this, long endure when men like this for their own narrow purposes make these divisions in the community and when they get into power dash the hopes which they raised so falsely as they certainly knew they would be dashed? It will be of no satisfaction to anybody on this side of the House to know that many of them will disappear after the next election but that will not be good enough. We would much rather have it that this wound had not been opened up by these members of the Government parties who are now so disgraced. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins) Order! The House will come to order. I have tolerated from both sides of the House interjections which, as honourable members know, are disorderly. We have now reached the stage where despite my good hearing I cannot hear what the honourable member for Grayndler is saying. I ask the House to come to order. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will not disadvantage you any longer. I shall speak even more clearly. The divisions that the Country Party members and their rural allies in the Liberal Party have wrought in our community will be with us after they have gone from this place. Their action is to be deplored. That kind of thing will no longer, hopefully, deface political life in Australia. 
The fifth ranking member of the Government is the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  He is a man who administers, I suppose, one of the laws which is of most concern to most members of this Parliament at the moment, and that is the law concerning the electoral system. The electoral system is something in which this Minister has a long standing interest.  His  attachment to democratic principle is of course well known. I remember particularly what a colleague of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who is seeking to interject,  Senator Ian  Wood, a member of the Government parties, said about this man and his attachment to principle. He said in fact that his motto at the referendums on 2 1 May ought to be: Vote for the hippos'- vote for the hypocrites. That is not something that was said by a Labor person. That is something that was said by a member of the Liberal Party; by a member of the Government parties. He said: 'Vote for the hippos'. He spelt it with an 'I' not a 'Y'. He meant it was an abbreviation of 'hypocrite'. He meant that a government that opposed propositions in 1974 and now turned around and supported them for narrow short term political purposes ought to be condemned. Let us contrast that kind of behaviour from a Minister for Administrative Services with the principled support for the propositions by the Labor Party which does not seek such short term political advantage but which exhibits in this House and in the other place a constant attachment to democratic principles. 
The sixth ranking member of the Government is the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  The Minister for Industry and Commerce in alliance with his junior Minister, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  is turning back the clock in Australiaback on the debate about industry in this country, back on the public debate that was encouraged by the Labor Party. Those Ministers will introduce very shortly disgraceful amendments to the Temporary Assistance Authority legislation which a member of that Authority has indicated are so reprehensible that he will be unable to enforce them or to administer them. He will not in any way go along with this disgraceful Government attempt to subvert open legislation. 
To conclude in the half minute remaining to me in this debate, if there is one element of its style which distinguishes the Fraser Government from the Labor Government which preceded it for 3 years, it is its lack of openness, its unwillingness to confront the people of Australia with the facts, its unwillingness to allow independent authorities to make recommendations and to give to the people information on which the Government's decisions in this country ought to be made. That kind of distinction will eventually bring its downfall. 
-Has the Treasurer seen the figures released this week by the Australian Bureau of Statistics relating to the amount of overtime worked in larger Australian factories? Is it true that the overtime rate has declined from a peak of 2.6 in July 1976 to a low of 1.8 in January this year? Does the right honourable gentleman recall that some 12 months ago he was fond of using the overtime worked factor as an indicator of economic recovery in Australia? In the light of the continuing decline and deterioration of the Australian economy, as evidenced by the latest overtime figures released by the Bureau, can he please explain his reluctance to use these figures as an indicator of Government performance of late? When will he next be regaling this House with the selective use of overtime figures as an economic indicator? 
I rise very briefly to support the amendments moved by the honourable member for 
Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  spoke about international terrorism and I thought rather unkindly impugned the motives of the Opposition in anticipating the moving of these amendments. In fact, international terrorism is not always directed against foreign governments, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has made very clear. This is not a theoretical situation. We are not talking about Angola, but in the case of the Lebanon we have concrete examples of Australian citizens, many of whom have been in their early teens, who have gone from Australia to fight in that war- not against the foreign government, not against the government of Lebanon at all, but for one faction or another in that country. We ought not to permit that to happen and we ought not to encourage any organisations in Australia- this applies consequentially to clause 7- to assist in such activity. 
I am prefectly well aware of what paragraph (b) of sub-clause (3) says about 'causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury', but I do not believe that addresses the situation in which the violence is not directed against the foreign government, because the meaning of the word 'public' is not defined. In fact, clause 9 of the Bill deals with armed forces in foreign countries, whether those armed forces form part of the armed forces of the government of that foreign country or otherwise. So clearly the Bill draws a distinction between armed forces belonging to a foreign government and contemplates armed forces within a country which do not belong to that government. I suppose it is not hard then to argue that persons who belong to those armed forces are not members of the public. The amendments do not address themselves to a theoretical situation. They do not address themselves to a situation which may occur in Australia tomorrow. They address themselves to a situation which has been occurring here in a very hard way for the last 1 8 months or so. The amendments deserve the support of the Committee. 
I support the proposed amendment to omit sub-clause (2) of clause 9. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  spoke about it being odd that legalistic argument should be used in a debate such as this. That is a rather odd statement for an Attorney-General to make. Nonetheless, I think in relation to clause 9 the reservations expressed by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  on the Government side, were well put. The suggestion that the Minister, in this case the Attorney-General, ought to have such a wide authority is extraordinary. This is not a discretion that the Attorney-General exercises as First Law Officer. It is not the kind of discretion that he has in relation to the giving of a consent under clause 10, which is a perfectly proper consent for an Attorney-General to be called on to give in proceedings of this nature. In the case of sub-clause (2) of clause 9 he has to have regard for the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia. As the Attorney-General himself allowed, he will be instructed or moved on that question by the Government. 
The Attorney-General muddies the waters completely when he talks about the issue of ministerial responsibility. Ministerial responsibility does not mean that this Parliament gives each Minister a blank cheque in relation to his portfolio and that if he does wrong in it or if the Parliament thinks he does wrong he is called to account here. Substantive questions of law are decided by this Parliament. In a situation like this where admittedly it may not be appropriate to have an amending Bill every time it is decided that it is in the national interests of Australia that a foreign country ought to be able to recruit persons in Australia, we at least ought to ask the Attorney-General to consider amending this legislation so that any instrument he signs is tabled in the Parliament and can be disallowed by either House. It seems to me that that would be a perfectly good compromise. It is not covered in the terms of the proposed amendment but it is one the Attorney-General might consider. I think it would address some of the reservations that are felt on this side particularly and which have been expressed on the other side at least by the honourable member for St George. 
The question of what is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia is a political question. It ought to be able to be brought on quickly for a direct and immediate debate on a disallowance motion in this Parliament. I believe it is not something that ought to be dealt with simply by a gazettal by the Attorney-General. I stress that the kind of consent that is to be given under clause 10 is altogether different. That is a perfectly proper consent for the First Law Officer. The one under sub-clause (2) of clause 9 is a political question. If that provision cannot be omitted at this time the Attorney-General might give consideration to the procedure I have suggested. 
There is not much to say about this legislation. Both the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  and the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  gave us a very accurate description of the purpose of the building which is the subject of this legislation and its site. I suppose that, for the first time, it gives a definition in a Federal statute to this company, Law Courts Limited, so at least it is appropriate to talk briefly about what the company does. It administers a building which is designed to provide courts for both the State and Federal authorities. That is unique in a building like this and it is welcome. In relation to accommodation for Federal judges, I think that the Attorney-General is aware of the present grave limitations of several Federal courts in New South Wales and, I know, in other States. We ought not to be too  blase  about finding some solutions to this problem because a lot of these courts are the physical arenas in which citizens come up against the power and the authority of the law, particularly laws passed by this Parliament, especially in family law jurisdiction. In that jurisdiction persons' expectations have been raised greatly over the last couple of years, but when they get into the physical accommodations where their disputes are to be settled they are made even less comfortable than they should be. 
I do not think that we can let a debate such as this go by without talking about the way in which citizens come into contact with the law. One of the things that bedevils every one of us in this Parliament is that we have ridiculous demarcations in our absurd Federal system between Federal, State and local government levels of authority. They can be arbitrary, and each of them will draw lines and be unhelpful about what they can do for other people. An illustration of how small-minded we are in the administration of these courts is that we have a situation in Sydney where the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, in order to preserve the dignity of his Court and its independence, has instructed the chief executive officer of the Supreme Court of New South Wales to lock and to bar a door between the glassed entrances to the Federal courts and the State courts. How absurd and petty! 
This massive building stands in one of the oldest squares in Sydney- Queen's Square. The aesthetics of the building are nothing much to admire, and I will come to that in a moment. But at least it is a building which people know houses the courts of law. It is a building through which not only the legal profession but anybody who has any business in those courts, either with counsel, solicitors in attendance or by themselves, ought to be able to proceed with a minimum of fear and a minimum of the absurd pomposities with which the law surrounds itself so unnecessarily. I appeal to the Attorney-General to see that his Department takes up with the Supreme Court authorities in New South Wales, and particularly with the Chief Justice, this pettifogging restriction which has been imposed on the movement not only of the profession- after all that is not nearly so important- but of the public. 
This building has a large glassed-in forecourt overlooking Queen's Square in one of the main public pedestrian precincts of the biggest capital city in our country. People want to proceed through this building for many reasons- perhaps to take a short cut, perhaps to look at the building, perhaps to go and sit in the public galleries of the law courts. After all these galleries are provided so that the public can have access to them and can see justice done. It is not simply for the benefit of the professionals and the practitioners that this stupid pettifogging restriction should be lifted. I hope that at the earliest possible opportunity the Federal authorities will seek to see that that is done. 
I do not want to steal the thunder of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  who knows much more about this matter than I do and who in his period of office as Minister for Urban and Regional Development did more than anybody else in this Parliament to affect the physical landscape of Australia, but one cannot talk about this law courts building in Queen's Square without talking about what an abomination it is aesthetically. I know that this is subjective judgment and that people's views differ but it seems to me a great shame that in a project like this one, where we had the State and Federal governments coming together very properly, I believe- I know that the Attorney-General who is a great advocate of national court systems will support the concept of the Federal and State authorities coming together and putting their courts in the one building- the best that they could come up with is a building which is no doubt functional for practitioners but which is not a credit to the city which it ought to grace. The law courts do not need to have any particular awesome quality about them but there is no reason why one of the 3 arms of governmentthe legislature, the executive and the courtsought not to be housed in a very pleasant environment. In this instance that is not the case. I trust that on future occasions when we are looking at the construction of Federal courts, I hope in association with State courts, this sort of thing will not occur again. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) When did the Government announce the appointment of 'the Government's Law and Government Committee' referred to in his press release of 2 February 1977 dealing with access to civil proceedings. 
Who are the members of the Committee and what are its terms of reference. 
In entering a debate on Australia's immigration policies and population it strikes me as rather odd that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who preceded me in this debate, spent all his time talking about Aborigines. If we are to regard Aborigines as immigrants we really are going to have an absurd debate. Of course, what prompted that outrageous tirade from the honourable member were some activities of the Commissioner for Community Relations in investigating activities by the honourable member. I do not wish to talk about them. But I do think that the Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby,  during his time both as Minister for Immigration in the first Whitlam Government and now as Commissioner for Community Relations, has devoted a good deal of time and attention to a lot of the problems which are canvassed in this Green Paper that we are discussing tonight. 
I want to talk about the human face of our immigration policies. I believe that the debate to date has been relatively low key; it has not been conducted in an unduly partisan fashion. Whilst people have commented from time to time on the way in which certain programs have administered by the Government and on certain directions that the Government is now seeking to take, basically we have been talking in largely theoretical terms about directions of immigration policies. I believe that we can get a good picture of Australian society now if we look at something that the Commissioner for Community Relations said in his first annual report last year: 
Australians by demographic definition are the newest people in the world since the median age of the population is 28 and one Australian in three is a product of post-war migration. The 3. 1 million people who came to Australia in the last quarter-century from more than 100 countries and peoples around the world have produced nearly a million children. An indication of the impact of migration is that proportionately for every migrant arriving in the United States since World War II, 40 have come to Australia. The influx has led to Australia having the largest overseas-born work force in the world outside Israel. It is estimated that 52 per cent of all blue collar manual workers were born outside the country and 27 per cent of all working age Australians came from somewhere else. 
In the time available to me I should like to talk about the situation in Australia that faces these people who have come here as a direct result of migration policies pursued by successive Australian governments over the past several decades. The Green Paper reports that in the main immigrants to this country choose to concentrate themselves in the cities and that they choose to congregate quite often near persons of the same ethnic origin. The result of that is that as a member who represents in this House an inner city electorate I have great numbers of these people in my electorate. 
One of the basic questions to which the Green Paper addresses itself in chapter 7 dealing with society and the migrant is particularly the question that has emerged within the last couple of years of a heightening of ethnic identity. The Green Paper at page 57 poses the proposition: 
Some Australians are genuinely concerned about the possibility of racial and ethnic tensions, evident in other countries, developing in Australia as a result of continued migration from particular sources. 
At the same page the Green Paper points out: 
In recent years there has been some debate concerning the extent to which Australia should encourage the development of separate and identifiable ethnic organisations and activities rather than promoting the integration of ethnic groups into the larger Australian society. 
I have fairly strongly developed views on those questions. In the year and a half that I have been representing my electorate in this Parliament I have had a great deal of contact with a considerable number of ethnic organisations of different ethnic groups. I have had contact with Greeks, Italians, Yugoslavs, Lebanese and Turks- in fact most of the larger groups represented in Australia, particularly those that have come to Australia in recent years and not so much, of course, from countries such as Germany and the Netherlands which used to be source countries. I have formed the strong impression that the heightening of ethnic identity is essential if we are to avoid the very kind of intentions about which the authors of the Green Paper were concerned. It is not an exclusive concept. I believe that by encouraging ethnic organisations to form and to acknowledge their cultural background we in fact promote an integrity in Australia. 
Honourable members will see for themselves that ethnic organisations, in order better to promote their causes in public, in the parliaments, in life generally in their communities, have banded together into ethnic community councils. In most States the management of many of the new institutions that have emerged during the last few years is in the hands of groups which might fairly have been regarded traditionally as being opposed to each other. This is especially so in respect of groups from Europe. These groups are now working together. We have instances where Turks and Greeks are working alongside each other, notwithstanding the different views they might have on questions such as Cyprus or the search for oil in the Aegean Sea. At least the fact that they have been able to get together and work together has been of tremendous advantage. In dealing with every level of community organisation in my constituency I see how much better ethnic organisations are able to function when they work in this way. 
Next Saturday I shall attend the Yugoslav ethnic school in Newtown in my electorate. This is one of the largest of these institutions in New South Wales and, I suspect, in Australia. It is a Saturday morning school and is run on a voluntary basis. Some of the kids who attend the school- some were born outside Australia but most of them were bom here- have parents who came from Yugoslavia. I do not have to canvass here for honourable members the tensions that exist within the Yugoslav community in Australia between the various peoples of the republics of that country. The country of Yugoslavia is a multicultural and a multilanguage society. The Yugoslav school has been able to attract support from politicians like me and from the New South Wales Department of Education in a way in which would not be possible if the Yugoslav people were to approach us simply as Serbs, Croats, Macedonians or Slovenes. By coming together and working together it is impossible for anybody in the community who has regard for the interests of these persons to ignore such a large group. 
Periodically, I suppose, those of us who were born in this country and those of us whose families have lived here for generations remark on the supposedly volatile nature and temperament of a good many people who have come here in recent years. I believe that the media has played up quite irresponsibly the violence that, in popular minds, is supposed to exist in these communities. For instance, we never hear about the violent brawls that take place every week amongst crowds on a perfectly anti-social basis at games of Australian rules football or Rugby league but we get quite mischievious reporting of violence at soccer games which may involve persons who were not born in this country. When it does happen I am very heartened with the reaction in the ethnic communities themselves. Whenever this kind of violence occurs- I am referring particularly, I suppose, to the way it occurs between Serbs and Croats- persons who are active in the Yugoslav community understand that it is their responsibility to work it out for themselves and to get their own people who have come here to abide by Australian standards in this matter. They are doing that. They would not be able to do that unless this increased identity with their cultural background had been given recognition in the past couple of years. To the extent that that question concerns the Council, I hope that it will do some surveys when it comes out with further reports, as I hope it will, and that the Council will see that in fact not only amongst the ethnic communities themselves but in the perception of the active ethnic community organisations by older generation Australians, it has been a positive advantage to have had this identity of ethnic groups emerge during the past couple of years. 
There are aspects of certain of the other services to which the report refers that I believe it can only have seriously canvassed the questionability of them in the purest academic sense. Referring to the migrant settlement services that are available in this country and which are administered largely by the Department of Social Security, the Green Paper, in the same chapter dealing with 'Society and the migrant', at page 55, puts this view: 
One view goes so far as to suggest that the situation of migrants in relation to education, health services etc. - 
I do not like to see a word like 'etcetera' in reports like this; it is fairly sloppy-  is so poor that consideration should seriously be given to stopping or at least reducing non-English-speaking immigration. 
One of the things we are doing- my good friend the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  alluded to this earlier- is that in the last couple of years we have been redressing the neglect of a couple of decades. The kind of services that are novel and which have been provided and about which politicians go around patting themselves on the back, are services we should have been providing for migrants in this country for at least the last couple of decades. I refer to the telephone interpreter service, the ethnic radio organisation, the provision of specialised migrant social workers and welfare workers. These sorts of facilities ought to have been available for many years past. Now that we have developed them, I hope that to an extent they will be built into the system. By saying they should be built into the system I do not mean that they should be built into it in an inflexible way but in a way that will respond to needs as they develop. In the field of education we now are developing a large number of teachers who are becoming expert in migrant education, and these people will go into the teaching services of the several States to pass on that knowledge to people who come in. In turn we will have those facilities there to receive from overseas large numbers of migrants from non-English-speaking countries. These kinds of facilities that we are building up will be built into the system to that extent and will be available for the assistance of migrants who come to this country. 
The Green Paper also canvasses the source of our immigrants. It makes the very fair point that migrants who come to this country and whose native tongue is not English occasionally find it more difficult to settle in Australia than those who speak English when they come here. I would regard the possession of English as being an extra attribute for someone who wants to come to Australia but I think it would be a grave mistake if we were to set ourselves against the entry into Australia of persons who do not speak English. There is no evidence- in fact, the evidence is all to the contrary- that persons who come here and who do not speak English do not learn it quickly. The Green Paper refers to old people. Particularly in the family-reunion category, a lot of dependent parents come to Australia and for quite understandable reasons find it beyond them to learn the English language at that stage of their life, especially given the fact that they live within a small family environment. If we look at the generations which are in the work force and especially at their children, we will see that there is a tremendous willingness to learn English, an ability to learn it, and an ability to go out into the work force and get jobs, no matter how limited their English is. Any suggestion that we ought actively to favour those who do possess the English language now, no matter what their other personal attributes may be or what are their occupational qualifications and their family connections in Australia, is I believe a backward step. 
I cannot conclude my remarks in a debate such as this without once more being critical of what I believe are the back door efforts of the Government to give preference to the recruitment of migrants in the United Kingdom. The English newspapers that I see periodically still contain advertisements in the most general language for migrants to Australia. The State governments' offices in London are undoubtedly being used as a back door way of bringing British migrants to this country in preference to persons from other countries who, I believe, have just as good a claim to come to Australia to make new lives for themselves and their families. This has been a very useful Green Paper. I join the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in commending the Council for its production. I hope it is not the last Green Paper on this subject. I hope that we will get some more concrete reports on statistics which will back up some of the assertions contained in this report. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Ambassador-designate to Ireland arrive in Dublin? 
Did he carry a Letter of Credence addressed to a  President  of Ireland who had died? 
) If so, when had that President died? 
By whom was the Letter of Credence signed and on what date, and on whose recommendation? 
When and by what means did the Government of Ireland inform the Australian Government that the Letter was unacceptable? 
When was the Ambassador-designate sent a Letter of Credence to the current President? 
) When did he present the Letter? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has the Treasury drawn up plans for a voluntary method of freezing the prices of rural produce which is sold by auction and subject to significant variations in supply? Can the right honourable gentleman yet explain to the House how such a scheme might work and thus allay the confusion that exists in the minds of rural producers following the conflicting statements of the Prime Minister and of the Minister for Primary Industry? 
It is a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  in this debate. He is one of the more moderately spoken and certainly one of the more economically literate Government members. Therefore I will try to make my contribution as restrained as I possibly can. This debate marks the first occasion on which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has entered into a substantive economic debate since the announcement of the wage-price freeze over a fortnight ago by the Premiers and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It is very instructive to look at the Treasurer's mid-term review of his budget strategies against that background. I think it is significant that, in what I thought was a very good handling of a very poor brief by the honourable member for Ballaarat, he referred to this proposed freeze only in the last minute and a half of his address. For the rest of his speech he spoke about the effect- he conceded that different views could be held about the success or otherwise- of the policies that the Government has been pursuing for the past year or so. 
It is significant that in his second reading speech on this legislation the Treasurer makes no reference whatsoever to the wage-price freeze, to its effect on the additional estimates for the Government departments which we are now debating, or the effect on the general economy of the so-called savings- this new gimmick that the Treasurer has introduced- mentioned in these sorts of debates. The only element of policy to which he referred was the Government's policy of expenditure restraint. There certainly cannot be any doubt that the Government has pursued consistently a policy of cutting some areas of expenditure. It has certainly done that, and I shall deal with that matter in a moment and look at the kinds of expenditure it has cut. 
We have had a most peculiar debate on this legislation. The debate started only today. I have not had the opportunity of hearing the contributions made by all honourable members opposite, but I have heard at least the last 3 contributions. They could not have been more different. The honourable member for Denison was most agitated about the fact that Tasmania is an island and therefore is dependent on air services to a much greater extent than the rest of Australia. He seems to want to reverse that condition. There is nothing we can do about it. I do not believe that the kind of contribution we heard from him will do anything to help the atmosphere of industrial relations in Australia. The next  speaker  from the Government side was the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  He made an extraordinary speech in which he said that everything was fine in the garden. To their credit, the Treasurer, the honourable member for Ballaarat and members like him do not pretend in these debates that everything is fine. They draw a picture which is fairly gloomy- occasionally too gloomy. I think that occasionally they are pessimistic about the kinds of policies that have been consistently suggested from this side of the House by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Nonetheless, it is a very different kind of contribution. 
The honourable member for Maranoa went on to talk about the expenditure that this Government is undertaking as though it is a good thing, because he talked about the kind of sectional expenditure in which the Government is engaging. It is important that we understand that at the same time as the Government has been cutting certain types of expenditure which we are debating at the moment it also has been forgoing massive amounts of revenue as well as increasing expenditure in certain areas for certain of its favoured clients. Undoubtedly the honourable member for Maranoa thinks that is a good thing. He made one outrageous statement, however, with which I wish to deal very briefly. He went on to talk about the slight increase in non-farm gross domestic product. Whilst I conceded that point, I made the interjection: 'What about gross farm product?' He said: 'Yes, that has been declining'. 
The last round-up issued by the Treasury shows that the gross farm product decreased during the 6 months to the end of 1976 by 4.9 per cent. That represents the third consecutive decline for the preceding three quarters. He then went on to say that the Government was not in the business of borrowing money from overseas. If we are to have a serious economic debate in this place, let us get our facts right. The Government has borrowed- there is no reason why it should not borrow; in fact, I think that possibly it should have borrowed more- almost $ 1,000m from overseas. It took me only a minute to rush to my office and bring back a prospectus and an offering circular for $US500m of that amount. So let us deal with the facts. 
The honourable member for Ballaraat says: 'Look, the Opposition is carping and it is criticising. Why do we not all pull together?' That is all very well when the natural party of government is in power. It always says: 'Now let us all pull together. Now is the time.' It was never the time to do that when Labor was in power. Honourable members opposite talk about the constructive role of opposition. The Labor Party has plenty of experience in opposition, and when it was continuously in opposition during the 1960s it exercised that role very responsibly, as I believe it is doing now. But when it got into government, what was its experience in relation to the constructive contribution it received from an Opposition unfamiliar with that role and unwilling to perform it? What contribution did it receive from the supporters of that Opposition outside the Parliament? In fact, no co-operation was forthcoming. 
We might as well give the lie in this economic debate straight away to the suggestion that no offer of co-operation has been made from outside the Parliament. Such an offer has been made. The trade union movement is willing to co-operate. It has called for a conference of all parties on the economic condition of this country for the purpose of canvassing many possibilities and not just a straight wage-price freeze which, in any event, the Government knows it could never implement. 
It is quite extraordinary that the notes which were prepared by departmental officials at the Premiers Conference have not been made available. But excerpts from those notes which were published in at least one newspaper the weekend before last show that it is impossible to implement that kind of proposition in Australia. Every Government member knows that is the case. He knows that the power to control wages or prices is a one-sided matter. In 1973 the Australian Labor Party Government sought the power for this Parliament to legislate on this matter, so in the national Parliament we did discuss wages and prices policies. We did not have to defer to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to somebody outside the Parliament. We said that this was a proper matter to be debated in Canberra, in the national Parliament. But the Opposition parties at that time would not support that proposal. Now they have to live with the consequences of that shortsighted and unprincipled opposition. 
The Additional Estimates are a reflection of the failure of the Government's policies. I believe that if we are to talk about policies we can isolate them thus: There are expenditure cuts which are very largely in areas which were increased markedly in the 3 years of Labor Government. That has been a consistent policy of this Government. It has pursued that policy very firmly. I do not approve of it, but the Government has stuck to it. It next pursued an investment led recovery strategy by proposing an investment allowance to business- among other allowances- which has been a flop. The estimates of the revenue forgone by the Department of Finance have varied from $400m down to $2S0m in a year. 
-The amount has been coming down. It was not supposed to take so long, as I think the honourable member for Perth will concede. I suppose the next great policy, apart from moving away from support of full indexation which the Government promised at the last election, was the revamping of Medibank. There was a suggestion that in some way the Government would pass on a direct part of the cost to the taxpayer rather than have it refunded from general revenue. Constantly the Government overlooks the fact that at least about $ 1,000m of cost is still funded from general revenue. If we look at Medibank we see the fate of that policy reflected in the documents which we are looking at today. The Department of Health is seeking an additional $250,000 because it wasted $250,000 in publicity relating to the design of the Medibank proposals last year. 
Every honourable member remembers the farce in May when we had outlined to us the proposal to amend the Medibank procedures. We came back for the Budget session and we had to go through the debates again and have the whole system recast. That alone has cost us $250,000, as we see from the Bill we are debating today. I shall proceed to what has been the final Government policy, which is being pursued assiduously by certain sectional interests of the Government since it achieved power and which the Prime Minister implemented at the end of last year, and that is devaluation. It was a very unwise policy. I think Government members and certainly the Treasury conceded that the amount of devaluation was too much. The dollar had to be revalued upwards very smartly thereafter. We are seeing the consequence of that precipitate devaluation in these papers which are before us now. The amounts vary up to as much as the $30m extra which we will have to pay for defence expenditure because of that devaluation. I know that Government members constantly talk about the need to increase defence expenditure. If they want to do that they can do it more cheaply by avoiding unwise policies like devaluation. Devaluation has meant a variation in the figures from that amount of $30m to a piddling $200 which is found in the additional estimates for the Department of Administrative Services for the payment to the Singapore Government for free hospital treatment of Asian residents of Christmas Island. 
Right through these documents we see the consequence of that devaluation decision where any payment has to be made abroad in foreign currency or something like special drawing rights to the International Monetary Fund. As the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is at the table I refer to a couple of extraordinary additional estimates which are found in this Bill. One is, of course, the proposition that we should now vote an extra $20,000 for the salaries of officers of the ethnic affairs unit of his Department. Honourable members will remember that when the coalition parties went to the people in December 1975 one of their great promises to the migrant communities in this country was that they would re-establish a Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs as a focus for their concerns. This has been a totally cosmetic exercise to date, and in fact all sections that deliver post-settlement services to migrants in Australia remain in the Department of Social Security. But after nearly 18 months we are voting here today for an expenditure to cover the salaries of 19 men for one month. That is a mark, I believe, of the sense of urgency of the Minister and the Government about these kinds of problems. 
Within the Minister's specific concern is the telephone interpreter service for which the Department of Social Security is now appropriating an extra $140,000 over and above the $260,000 that was appropriated last year. How wrong can this Government be? How out of touch is it with the human side of its policies when it is so badly wrong about the amounts of money that are needed to administer basic community services in Australia. I was very delighted to hear the honourable member for Ballarat refer to the problem of unemployment in Australia and to the burden that is being borne by people who are unemployed. He is the only Government supporter in this debate who has mentioned this matter. I have no doubt that we all should focus attention on this question of inflation. Of course we do that. It is also electorally very smart to do that. As I said in the Budget debate last year, many more people in this country are affected by inflation than are affected by unemployment, and if one talks about inflation one is on an electoral winner. But it will be a very sorry day indeed if we are ever so short-sighted or so cynical in our planning of the expenditures of this country to consider only the question of inflation. 
I want to refer very briefly to the gimmicky part of the Treasurer's papers that he has given us to debate. It deals with so-called savings. The statement of savings, according to my colleagues, was never made available for debate until last year. Of course, in every parliament appropriations are not always fully expended. A short fall is a saving, to some extent. If we look at what this Government regards as a saving, we see its peculiar sense of investment priorities. I do not want to deal necessarily with items in alphabetical order but this would be the easiest way for me to proceed. We are told that there will be a saving of $10,000 in overtime for staff for the Department of Administrative Services. Members of Parliament who work with me on the Publications Committee of this House know that the Commonwealth has lost the services of an excellent government printer. He has gone to the State of Victoria as Government Printer for an extra $ 10,000 a year. This is not a saving; this is a very short-sighted view of public expenditure. There is to be a massive so-called saving of nearly $800,000 on the cost of publishing Acts and statutory rules in the Attorney-General 's Department. That is not a saving. Every member of this place knows it is a mere postponement of expenditure. If there is one thing that has characterised this Government during its 1 8 months in power it has been its reluctance to let information out into the public arena and to have its Ministers, especially its Prime Minister go out and confront the public. There has been a reluctance to hold Press conferences to allow the policies of this Government to be examined and its Ministers to be questioned about those policies. This is a completely phoney saving. It is argued that in some way we are improving the quality of government in this country by not making available to the public the statutes that we sit here day and night to pass. We are merely postponing that expenditure. At the same time we are ensuring that the level of public knowledge of things that concern all of us on both sides of this House and in the other place is less perfect because the basic ground material that people need to discuss these matters is not available. 
I would like to conclude my remarks tonight by referring again to what I said at the beginning of my speech about the Government's so-called price-wage freeze. The savings document that has been presented to us by the Department of Finance was conceived on 25 March. Clearly at that time the Department could not have known of the great wishing exercise that was undertaken by the Premiers a fortnight ago. The document shows that the Prices Justification Tribunal, about which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has made the most fantastic claims in respect of its authority and power and the legitimacy of it passing on information to the Government, has had its appropriation cut. After all last year attacking this tribunal and drawing its teeth with amendments to its enabling Act- the Prices Justification Act- the Government is now further cutting its Budget at a time when it is sought to be one of the lynch.pins of the prospects of success of the so-called wages-prices freeze. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
I ) Did the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board prepare a written report nominating persons considered suitable for appointment as Secretary to the Department of Productivity. 
) If so, did the report contain the  Chairman  's name as a person considered suitable for that appointment. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 7 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board appoint a committee to prepare a written report nominating persons considered suitable for appointment as Secretary to the Department of Productivity. 
If so, who were the members of the committee and did its report contain the Chairman's name as a person considered suitable for that appointment. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board prepare a written report nominating persons considered suitable for appointment to the vacancy occurring in his office following his appointment as Secretary to the Department of Productivity. 
If so, did the report contain the name of  Mr K.  C. O. Shann as a person considered suitable for appointment to that vacancy. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board appoint a committee to prepare a written report nominating persons considered suitable for appointment to the vacancy occurring in his office following his appointment as Secretary to the Department of Productivity. 
) If so, who were the members of the committee and did its report contain the name of  Mr K.  C. O. Shann as a person considered suitable for appointment to that vacancy. 
In following the honourable member for Cowper - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
I wish to reply to one point raised by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton).  That is the suggestion that because companies have the option of having their day in court other than at a public hearing of the Trade Practices Commission there is no argument that the Commission ought to be able to order a public hearing. The Commission receives applications for authorisation which it has to determine. It ought to have the option of a public hearing. That is all I am suggesting. 
I second the motion. As the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  said in his second reading speech, this is an extremely technical piece of legislation, yet the Government has sought to treat it in this fashion; and as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, we are presented today with 12 pages of substantive amendments. These are not drafting amendments placing commas in different positions, improving grammar or removing split infinitives; they are substantive amendments. These are exactly the same tactics which the Government pursued in relation to its amendments to the Prices Justification Act. On that occasion the substantive amendment, the most important single amendment, was introduced on the day by the Minister in precisely the same fashion. It was an amendment which gutted the effectiveness of the exemption procedures provided in that Act. So it is here that we have amendments brought on immediately for debate today which affect important considerations like the meaning of 'market'. 
It has been quite apparent to me that we would do much better in this debate if we did not engage in personal slanging. This is a very difficult piece of legislation and Government supporters who insist otherwise are very foolish. One honourable member who preceded me in this debate said that he could read the legislation and to prove it proceeded to quote it verbatim. That is hardly the same thing as understanding it. This piece of legislation, particularly proposed section  45D,  not unexpectedly agitates a great many of my colleagues on this side of the House. It has tremendous ramifications. It is being amended again here today in a substantive way. The Swanson report about which everybody pretends to know so much- I doubt that many members have read much about it- devotes over 60 pages to the consumer protection provisions to which, as the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  said, the Government has properly responded with worthwhile amendments. We on this side of the House look forward to improving the Act with those amendments. But in relation to restrictive trade practices and the provisions dealt with in Part IV of the Act, the Government has acted in altogether too hasty a fashion. The proposed section  45D  is based upon 6 pages of recommendations. In the Swanson report, which contains 260 pages, 6 pages are devoted to secondary boycotts. That is a fact. I wonder how many honourable members opposite knew that. If they look at the piece of legislation we are considering they will see that it runs to nearly 80 pages. Of the 80 pages in this amending Bill, only about half a dozen relate to the consumer protection provisions. The rest relate to the procedures to be pursued by the Trade Practices Commission, the rights of parties before the Commission and the way in which business firms must conduct themselves in the marketplace. 
Last December the Minister made a second reading speech of 10 minutes. He made no further contribution in that debate. He has now introduced a Bill which he conceded in his second reading speech earlier this month was an extremely technical piece of legislation. He devoted 15 minutes to that speech. In the debate on the second reading the Government has permitted 2 speakers from each side. It is not fair and it is not true to say that this is the same piece of legislation as that introduced last December. It differs very substantially. 'Substantially' is a word which honourable members should know a fair bit about if they want to know anything about this Act. In relation to mergers, it completely changes the provisions that were anticipated in the December legislation. It weakens the provision but it attacks it from a different position entirely. The provision in relation to the so-called secondary boycotts is pages longer and infinitely more complex. Yet the Government has still not thought its position through. 
People quote the Swanson report. This piece of legislation contains elements which are based on recommendations in that report but many parts of it simply reflect Government policies and prejudices. That may be fair enough but let us look at the reasons for those prejudices. Let us not insist that in some way that they have been canvassed in the Swanson report, in the response by the Trade Practices Commission to that report or, in fact, in the submissions that have been made by interested parties, business houses, trade unions and consumer organisations, both to the Swanson Committee and to the Government subsequent to the publication of the Swanson Committee report. There has been no opportunity for a public debate and discussion and submissions by interested parties on this piece of legislation. All the submissions related either to the terms of reference of the Swanson Committee or to the December piece of legislation. It is becoming daily apparent, especially today, that this piece of legislation substantially differs from the December legislation. 
There is a pattern in this legislation which can be simply exposed. At every turn the Government talks about simplifying the explanatory memorandum which has been circulated by authority of the Minister. The simplification is, in every case, to soften the tests, to ease the defences and to change the burdens. Whereas persons who engaged in anti-competitive behaviour in our community once had to go before the Trade Practices Commission and justify why they should be allowed to persist with this sort of behaviour, now the onus is on the other side. The Commission will have to turn around and determine not only whether the behaviour is anticompetitive but also whether there is a public benefit that outweighs that anti-competitive behaviour. Of course, that could be a public benefit which might exist in any case even if the behaviour was proscribed and prohibited. The Minister knows that. Ten minutes in December and 15 minutes this month have been the amount of explanation that the Government has been prepared to give us about these extremely complex pieces of legislation. I discount completely the contributions that have been made by Government supporters on the back benches. It just is not appropriate, as the Minister ought to know, that the larger issues and the scheme of the Act should be canvassed in the Committee stage. The Committee stage is not meant for that purpose. It is meant to isolate the bad parts, talk about them and to excise them if we possibly can. The Government is seeking to recast this piece of legislation from being legislation based on the American model - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I thank you for your assistance and the benefit of your experience in suggesting ways in which I ought to phrase what I am trying to put to the chamber. I am grateful to the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  for his appreciation of the points I was canvassing. I was not making a speech on the second reading or opposing it. I was merely drawing to the attention of the House the complexities of this legislation, the many questions which arise from it and why I believe the whole of Australia, both the business community and consumers- to the extent that one is able to distinguish them, in many ways their interests in this legislation overlap- will benefit if this legislation is referred to a select committee. The honourable member for Port Adelaide who is not known for being a too immodest fellow was perfectly right when he said that not many honourable members can claim that we fairly understand this legislation. It is not a specific piece of legislation which votes money for a project or a scheme. It sets out to establish rules of conduct in the marketplace which affect the way in which business firms conduct themselves in Australia. It is legislation for which every one of us will be called to account by our constituents. In the second reading debate, such as it was, that we were permitted on the December legislative proposals that the Minister introduced, it fell to the Labor side of this House to champion the interests of small business and successfully to defend the repeal of section 49 in relation to price discrimination. How extraordinary! How odd that we should seem to make the issue of small business a partisan issue! How absurd for Government supporters to be placed in that position because they had to follow blindly the advice from their Ministers who had introduced a piece of legislation which had been thought through inadequately. That is a perfect example of the Bill having been improved in the last couple of months since it was before us. 
I believe that if the Bill were put before a select committee for a couple of months we would see a much improved piece of legisation. Everyone on this side of the House concedes that the Trade Practices Act 1974 is capable of improvement and we welcome some of the amendments that the Government proposes, particularly, as I said, those in relation to consumer protection. But it is quite apparent that the larger, much more important provisions of the legislation, have not been thought about enough by the Government or by Government supporters. For our part on this side we say quite frankly that we have not had the time to consider them. 
The legislation sets out general rules of application. These apply in various ways to different circumstances. I believe that the Government, when it confronted the trade unions about its first proposed section 45D, was able to give the trade unions 4 instances of the sort of conduct it thought was reprehensible and ought to be proscribed by that proposed section. The best the Government could come up with was 4 instances. In this case, in relation to so many of these provisions, every one of us will find members of the community who will come out and say that they have been disadvantaged, just as the small business organisations did in relation to the proposed repeal of section 49. There was a furore amongst them. Of course, in the end, the Government had to back away. 
The reason that this debate has been conducted at a comparatively low level is that the legislation has not been sufficiently understood. Members of this House would do very well to consider the advantages of referring this Bill to a select committee. I anticipate that there is every prospect that notwithstanding the majority of Government supporters in the Senate, it is very likely that in the Senate just such a proposal will carry the day. How silly we will look in this House of Representatives, the House which has the most direct contact with people in the community, if we pass up the opportunity to have a better look at this legislation, if we pass up the opportunity to let our constituents come to us and inform our colleagues in a select committee about its likely application. I think that there is every prospect that notwithstanding there being more Government supporters in the Senate, in that House the majority of members will vote to refer this matter to a select committee. 
The proposed new definition of exclusionary provisions is a substantial amendment. While it relates to a concept that was exposed by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  in the legislation he brought in in December, it substantially alters that provision. The Minister referred to the fact that the Swanson Committee had also dealt with this concept. I think I am right in saying that the Committee did not strike upon this description of a so-called exclusionary provision. The Committee went out of its way to draw attention to the different types of boycotts which can exist in the market place. No doubt it felt obliged to do that because its terms of reference had been so narrowly and specifically drawn that it was obliged to direct its attentions to something called a secondary boycott, particularly because it was a form of activity indisputably engaged in by certain registered organisations of employees. The Swanson Committee then identified collective boycotts and distinguished primary boycotts as a form of behaviour which ought to be outlawed by the trade practices legislation. Although the Minister has referred to such boycotts in his speeches and in the explanatory memoranda, the Government has not erected such a definition in the legislation. To do that, certain behaviour is described in the proposed new section 45, sub-section (1), and particular attention is drawn to what is called an exclusionary provision. In the amendment the Minister has just proposed, we are now looking at a substantially altered definition of an exclusionary provision. 
Let me say at the outset the Opposition welcomes the Government's move away from the concept of restraint of trade. I think it might fairly have been anticipated that Australian courts, with their innate conservatism, would have interpreted that in the way that they did in the Quadramain case. To some extent, a good part of what the Government seeks to do in proposed section 45 is laudable. Nonetheless, in the new definition which the Minister introduced this evening we do have a substantial alteration. The exclusionary provision is now to apply only to an agreement between persons, any two or more of whom are competitive with each other. Sub-section (2) of the proposed new section goes on to say who are deemed to be competitive with each other. The Minister was frank enough to admit that it has been the Government's clear intention and purpose to translate all vertical restrictive behaviour from section 45 into section 47. I hope that later on he will be drawn to comment on the consequence which flows from that classification. 
It is one about which both the Swanson Committee and the Government have been rather coy. Instead of the spirit of the legislation introduced by the Labor Government in 1974 being observed, and that was a spirit of generally proscribing behaviour which is deemed to be anti-competitive and not in the interests of the Australian economy, we are now getting back  to  putting some sort of behaviour into a preferred position whereby companies, simply by giving notice, can give themselves the advantage of an automatic authorisation, formerly a statutory interim clearance. That is a terribly important distinction because there is a great deal of behaviour in the Australian economy which is objectionable. In fact, the kind of behaviour to which the Trade Practices Commission has directed most of its attention is the very behaviour of exclusive dealing relating to vertical arrangements. That behaviour has exercised the attentions of the Commission, it has exercised the attentions of industry, and it has certainly led to those matters which have engaged the attention of newspapers and have been the subject of the public hearing of the Commission to date. 
I do not believe that the Government, and certainly not the Swanson Committee, has made a good case for this argument. The Minister made his frankest confession about the intentions of the Government only this evening. In the past the argument has been that we are simply tidying everything up, that there is behaviour which has been caught by section 45 of the existing Act which ought to be placed in section 47, relating to exclusive dealings. In doing that, certain kinds of behaviour are put into a preferred position where the Commission is placed in the position that it has to look at that behaviour on a case by case basis. Without wanting to anticipate all the arguments we will be canvassing this evening, and here I have to trust to the Minister's bona fides in allowing us to raise these questions at what might be a more appropriate time, consequences flow from the changed notification procedures in relation to exclusive dealing, and that goes particularly to the matters that the Trade Practices Commission now has to consider. Whereas formerly it had to consider only the question of whether the behaviour was anticompetitive and could come to a relatively rapid conclusion, it now has to go on to consider questions of public benefit, which are much more difficult and take much more time. 
As I say, this is a very substantive amendment. I realise that to the extent that it affects collective boycotts, it is to the advantage of certain organisations such as trade unions which could never be taken to be in competition with other organisations in the market place. But it seems to me that the extra words that have now been added to proposed new section 4D and which give us this new concept of exclusionary provision are objectionable. The reason is that we on this side of the chamber object to the fact that the Government is expanding the categories of business behaviour which can now escape the general purpose of the Trade Practices Act. For that reason, the Opposition will be opposing amendment No. 4. 

 Mr SHIPTON (Higgins)  (8.3  welcome the changes to this section of the Trade Practices Act which take away the potential conflict between section 45 and section 47. There was a real risk in the previous section 45 that an exclusionary dealing of the sort referred to in section 47 was covered. I would like to raise a matter in respect of the amendment now before the chamber concerning exclusionary provisions. I move no amendment in relation to this matter, but after reading the amendment, I wonder whether it is completely clear that a competitive situation is covered in which there is competition at different levels between the 2 parties concerned. For example, a company may have a wholesale function and a retail function. It may be possible for an agreement to exist between a retailer and a wholesaler who also operates a retail outlet. This operation may be in conflict with the exclusionary provisions as contained within this proposed new section because the company is competing at the retail level. 
I would prefer to interpret the clause- I feel that this is the intent of the legislation- on the basis that the words 'competitive with each other' contained in paragraph (a) of proposed section 4D ( 1 ) mean competitive with each other in relation to the supply of those goods or services or the acquisition of goods or services. I hope that is what we are referring to and that that is what the act of competition is about. I would welcome any comment that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs had to make on that. 
In a general way, I feel that these amendments do clear the air and do give some more certainty to business. The original clause contained a restraint of trade provision. That has been removed. I hope that in the interpretation and in the practise before the Trade Practices Commission more certainty has been introduced. I suppose, as in all things, that the proof of the pudding is in the eating and we will have to wait for the experiencepractice. 
I want to speak very briefly in relation to clause 17. This is the clause which repeals sections 20 to 24 of the existing Act and they are the sections which set out the procedures in relation to public hearings. The power of the Trade Practices Commission to order a public hearing is dealt with later in this Bill and we will talk then about the merits of having a commission which can, if it wishes, hold public hearings. I think it is appropriate to read into the record some of the facts relating to public hearings because there is a tremendous number of myths propagated in this area of competition law and one is that tremendous expense is incurred by companies as a result of public hearings. Since this Act came into operation in 1 974, with some parts at the beginning of 1975, the vast amount of expense related to its administration does not relate to public hearings at all. It relates to the other administrative adjudications of the Commission and the preventative advice which business firms have to take on these matters. 
Sections 20 to 24, which this Bill proposes to repeal, deal with matters like the power to take evidence on oath and the procedure at public hearings, which is worth dealing with now. I want to talk about the sort of things we are proposing to do away with. At the moment when the Commission conducts a public hearing it is obliged by section 21 of the existing Act to see that the proceedings are conducted with as little formality and technicality as possible. The Commission is not bound by the rules of evidence. It gives very broad powers of intervention to persons in those public hearings and that is a very important element of the way in which the Commission goes about its business. Not all of the conclusions of the Swanson Committee report are beyond challenge but at least in this area the Committee was unable to dig up any evidence of excessive obstruction by the Commission. 
The mechanics of public hearings have been obstructed by business houses and their legal advisers, and that needs to be said very strongly. The intrusion of legalism in far too strict a way into the Commission's public hearings has been at the request of business firms. Business firms have added this element to the way in which the Commission conducts its proceedings and when the Commission has sought at every turn to introduce the informality and expedition into the proceedings which the Act enjoins that it should do, counsel advising companies have sought to introduce into the proceedings every legalism from their background in the courts. The Commission in the legal assistance which it has had at public hearings has been very careful not to intrude. There has not been engagement of senior counsel to assist the Commission in its inquiries. It has been assisted by Crown law officers seconded for that purpose and it has been the business firms which have complained about the expense that have introduced this expense at this stage of proceedings. 
There are many other proceedings contemplated in the Trade Practices Act at the level of the trade practices tribunal, such as an appeal on authorisation proceedings, and in the courts if need be in relation to enforcement proceedings by the Commission or the Minister and in relation to a very welcome amendment which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  introduced last year dealing with declaration proceedings. So it is open to any business firm at any time to engage if it wishes in those legalistic trappings and to give itself every bit of advice and assistance it needs and to conduct its case before a court. We heard the Commission reviled so often during 1975 in that rhetoric which was spouted by the Minister and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and about which now they are so shamefaced, in relation to the expense that the Commission was occasioning business. However, let us get it perfectly straight in relation to clause 17 which seeks to repeal the consequential provisions upon the power of the Commission to hold public hearings that if any expense attending public hearings got out of hand it was never the fault of the Commission. In fact, that is the conclusion of the Swanson Committee and it is certainly the experience of all fair observers of the Commission's proceedings. I suppose it would be logical for the Opposition at this stage to oppose clause 17 on the basis that clearly if we were to prevail with our view that there ought to be public hearings we would need to have consequential provisions in the legislation to set out how the Commission ought to operate. It may be unnecessary to do so now but if it is decided to do so I will defer to my senior colleague, the Opposition spokesman on these matters, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
Nonetheless, I think it is important in a debate of this kind that we set the record straight about the way in which the Trade Practices Commission operates public hearings. 
Clause 20 amends section 29 of the present Act. Section 29 of the present Act gives the Minister power to give directions to the Commission and charges the Commission with compliance with those directions. But it contains a very severe limitation. The existing Act states that the Minister may:  . . . give directions to the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers under this Act . . . 
It then goes on to state that this is other than those functions or powers related directly or indirectly to Part VII. 'Directly or indirectly to Part VII' is a very strong expression. Part VII of the existing Act deals with authorisations and clearances. The authorisations and clearance procedure is the central part of the administration of this Act. It is concerned with the administrative adjudication that the Trade Practices Commission is charged with carrying out day after day. 
The Government proposes to amend this section and instead give the Minister a much more elaborate power. That will be a power to give directions as to matters to be given special considerationand I stress those words 'special consideration' by the Commission in determining applications for authorisations or in making decisions for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 93 (3). Paragraphs (a) and (b) of that section deal with the notification procedures in relation to exclusive dealing, to which I have alluded earlier this evening. In the view of the Opposition this is a particularly objectionable practice. It is one that the Government is expanding greatly in many clauses of this legislation; that is, it is placing a whole range of anticompetitive behaviour outside the general prohibition contained in section 45 of the Act or indeed, outside the prohibition contemplated by section 45 of the Act introduced by the Minister in December last year, and is transferring it to section 47 which is to deal exclusively and exhaustively with all questions of exclusive dealing. 
Exclusive dealing is a most reprehensible practice. It is the practice which has given most concern to the Commission. Frankly, one of the advantages of the public hearings of the Commission to which I have referred is that such hearings have given the Commission the opportunity to hear from parties involved in these practices and from intervenors as to how it might best deal with the practice of exclusive dealing and particularly how it might assess when and if ever there is any public benefit in relation to any of these practices. But now we have the Minister coming baldly before this chamber and asking us to support a proposition that the Minister ought to be able to give directions as to special considerations that the Commission may have regard to. 
It is perfectly true that section 29 requires the Minister to cause a copy of that direction to be published in the  Gazette.  But I do not believe that that is any kind of protection. There is no restriction whatsoever on the matters that the Minister can have regard to as being special. This is a massive departure from the whole scheme of the Act. The scheme of the Act, if I need to go over it again, is to set out general prohibitions and then to charge the Commission with the administration of that law; to develop guidelines in the nature of a dynamic economy and new concepts as they emerge, and to have regard to the particular concerns of markets. But here we have the Minister able to direct the Commission as to the way in which it should discharge its powers in relation to a matter of central importance to the scheme of competition law in Australia. We are given no indication of what these special considerations are to be. They are not confined in any way to having regard to public benefit and to questions of competition law. The Minister can draw them as narrowly or as largely as he likes. They simply have to be special and they can be special to any application; they can be special to any industry. The word 'special' is a term of art in law as the Minister would know. This will allow the widest possible area in which he may direct the Commission. I do not think that this point needs to be laboured. It clearly runs against the whole spirit of this legislation. 
The Minister made no reference in his second reading speech or indeed in the explanatory memorandum to this draconian power he is now taking unto himself. If I need to scare any of the honourable members opposite, let me just say that it is not likely that they will be in power forever and this power will survive in the Act for a dreadful socialist Minister one day. They can just imagine what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  will be doing by way of directing that matters are to be given special consideration. It is a quite reprehensible provision and it is not the sort of thing we ought to see in any legislation passed by this Parliament and especially by this House. The Swanson Committee made no recommendation of this sort. I think it is important to say that because we constantly have the Committee's recommendations called in aid as being in some way a justification of every proposition that the Government is seeking to foist upon us in this legislation. This is not one of those matters, although I naturally reserve the right to contest any recommendation of the Swanson Committee; this is something that the Government has taken unto itself. The Minister referred earlier this evening to how he thought it was a bad thing that once a Minister gave a direction as to a merger that might proceed. How much more reprehensible it is that the practice of exclusive dealing can be authorised on the basis of special considerations which the Minister is allowed to determine with a completely unfettered discretion. On that basis, the Opposition opposes clause 20 of this Bill. 
Progress reported. 
With respect, I think we ought to set the record straight on the existing powers of the Minister in relation to merger applications. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  suggests that the power that the Minister possesses to direct that a merger application be approved or be authorised exists only after a determination by the Commission. In fact, of course, in the same way as is now proposed with revised section 29 the direction can be given before the determination. 
-Yes, that is correct. It can be given at either time. But it certainly could be given beforehand. The same words 'special consideration' are used in proposed section 29 ( 1). The Minister himself drew attention to the way in which he will be able to give directions which are so specific in relation to any application for an authorisation or in relation to the consideration of a notification of exclusive dealing. But the very specificity with which he draws his directions will ensure that such an application must be granted. The Minister could indicate that a special consideration ought to be that so many units of cars be produced, that the work force be made up of so many numbers or that a plant be located in a city of high unemployment. He could draw the directions so specifically that they must cover the situation which any company might be contemplating in relation to any restrictive practice that would be caught by an application to which this section applies. 
Very briefly, I want to support what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said. I do not think I can restate too often the objection the Labor Party has to the administration of this legislation being with a Minister who has such conflicting responsibilities. That is not in any way meant as a personal reflection on the incumbent. It is simply an unsatisfactory administrative arrangement. We are talking about the Trade Practices Tribunal, which earlier tonight the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  conceded is a tribunal of a semi-judicial nature, and yet here we have important questions such as the suspension and removal of members of the Tribunal and the staff of the Tribunal, and particularly the question of who conducts the registries of the Tribunal, being taken away from the First Law Officer of Australia and vested in the Minister. The Opposition believes that that is an inappropriate way to organise the business of the Tribunal. 
Proposed new clauses agreed to. 
Clause 23. 
Sections 45, 46 and 47 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections substituted: '45. (1) If a provision of a contract made before the commencement of the  Trade Practices Amendment Act  1977- 
is an exclusionary provision; or 
has the purpose, or has or is likely to have the effect, of substantially lessening competition, that provision is unenforceable in so far as it confers rights or benefits or imposes duties or obligations on a corporation. '(3) For the purposes of this section and section 45a, 'competition', in relation to a provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding or of a proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, means competition in any market in which a corporation that is a party to the contract, arrangement or understanding or would be a party to the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, or any body corporate related to such a corporation, supplies or acquires, or is likely to supply or acquire, goods or services or would, but for the provision, supply or acquire, or be likely to supply or acquire, goods or services. '(5) The making of a contract, arrangement or understanding does not constitute a contravention of this section by reason that the contract, arrangement or understanding contains a provision the giving effect to which would, or would but for the operation of sub-section 88 (8) or section 93, constitute a contravention of section 47 and this section does not apply to or in relation to the giving effect to a provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding by way of- 
engaging in conduct that contravenes, or would but for the operation of sub-section 88 (8) or section 93 contravene, section 47; or 
doing an act by reason of a breach or threatened breach of a condition referred to in sub-section 47 (2), (4), (6) or (8), being an act done by a person at a time when- 
an authorization under sub-section 88 (7) is in force in relation to conduct engaged in by that person on that condition; or '45a.(1) .... ' ( 2 ) Sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply to a provision of a contract or arrangement made or of an understanding arrived at, or of a proposed contract or arrangement to be made or of a proposed understanding to be arrived at, for the purposes of a joint venture to the extent that the provision relates or would relate to- 
the joint supply by the parties to the joint venture of goods jointly produced by those parties in pursuance of the joint venture; '(7) For the purposes of the preceding provisions of this section but without limiting the generality of those provisions, a provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding, or of a proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, shall be deemed to have the purpose, or to have or to be likely to have the effect, of fixing, controlling or maintaining, or providing for the fixing, controlling or maintaining of, the price for, or a discount, allowance, rebate or credit in relation to, goods supplied as mentioned in sub-section ( 1 ) if the provision has the purpose, or has or is likely to have the effect, of fixing, controlling or maintaining, or providing for the fixing, controlling or maintaining of, such a price, discount, allowance, rebate or credit in relation to a re-supply of the goods by persons to whom the goods are or would be supplied by the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding or the proposed parties to the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding, or by any of them, or by any bodies corporate that are related to any of them. '45b. (1) '(3 ) Where a person- 
issues an invitation to another person to enter into a contract containing a covenant; 
b ) makes an offer to another person to enter into a contract containing a covenant; or 
makes it known that the person will not enter into a contract of a particular kind unless the contract contains a covenant of a particular kind or in particular terms, the first-mentioned person shall, by issuing that invitation, making that offer or making that fact known, be deemed to require the giving of the covenant. '(4) The requiring of the giving of, or the giving of, a covenant does not constitute a contravention of this section by reason that giving effect to the covenant would, or would but for the operation of sub-section 88 ( 8 ) or section 93, constitute a contravention of section 47 and this section does not apply to or in relation to engaging in conduct in relation to a covenant by way of- 
conduct that contravenes, or would but for the operation of sub-section 88 (8) or section 93 contravene, section 47; or 
doing an act by reason of a breach or threatened breach of a condition referred to in sub-section 47 (2), (4), (6) or (8), being an act done by a person at a time when- 
an authorization under sub-section 88 (7) is in force in relation to conduct engaged in by that person on that condition; or '(5) This section does not apply to or in relation to a covenant or proposed covenant where the only persons who are or would be respectively bound by, or entitled to the benefit of, the covenant or proposed covenant are persons who are associated with each other. 45c.(l) .... '(4) For the purposes of the preceding provisions of this section, but without limiting the generality of those provisions- 
a proposed covenant shall be deemed to have the purpose, or to have, or to be likely to have, the effect, of fixing, controlling or maintaining, or providing for the fixing, controlling or maintaining of, the price for, or a discount, allowance, rebate or credit in relation to, goods supplied as mentioned in sub-section (2) if the proposed covenant has the purpose, or would have or be likely to have the effect, as the case may be, of fixing, controlling or maintaining, or providing for the fixing, controlling or maintaining of, such a price, discount, allowance, rebate or credit in relation to a re-supply of the goods by persons to whom the goods are supplied by the persons who would, or would but for sub-section 45B ( 1 ), be bound by or entitled to the benefit of the proposed covenant, or by any of them, or by any persons associated with any of them. '45d.(1) '(3) A person shall not be taken to contravene, or to be involved in a contravention of, sub-section ( 1) by engaging in conduct where the dominant purpose for which the conduct is engaged in is substantially related to- 
the remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work or working conditions of that person or of another person employed by an employer of that person; or 
an employer of that person having terminated, or taken action to terminate, the employment of that person or of another person employed by that employer. '47. ( 1 ) Subject to this section, a corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in the practice of exclusive dealing. '(3) A corporation also engages in the practice of exclusive dealing if the corporation refuses- 
to supply goods or services to a person; (0 in the case of a refusal in relation to the supply or proposed supply of goods, has re-supplied, or has not agreed not to re-supply, goods, or goods of a particular kind or description, acquired from the corporation- 
to particular persons or classes of persons or to persons other than particular persons or classes of persons; or 
in particular places or classes of places or in places other than particular places or classes of places. '( 10) Sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply to the practice of exclusive dealing constituted by a corporation engaging in conduct of a kind referred to in sub-section (2 ), ( 3 ), (4) or ( 5 ) or paragraph (8) (a) or (b) or (9) (a), (b) or (c) unless the enaging by the corporation in that conduct has, or is likely to ave, the effect of substantially lessening competition. '(13) Sub-section (1) does not apply with respect to any conduct by way of- 
) the making of a contract or arrangement, or the arriving at an understanding, if paragraph 45 (2) (a) applies in relation to that conduct by reason that the proposed contract, arrangement or understanding contains an exclusionary provision; or 
the giving effect to a provision of a contract, arrangement or understanding if that provision is an exclusionary provision. '( 14) In this sectionfa) . 
a reference to competition, in relation to conduct to which a provision of this section other than subsection (8) or (9) applies, shall be read as a reference to competition in any market in which- 
the corporation engaging in the conduct or any body corporate related to that corporation; or 
any person whose business dealings are restricted, limited or otherwise circumscribed by the conduct or, if that person is a body corporate, any body corporate related to that body corporate, supplies or acquires goods or services or would, but for the conduct, supply or acquire, or be likely to supply or acquire, goods or services; and 
a reference to competition, in relation to conduct to which sub-section (8) or (9) applies, shall be read as a reference to competition in any market in which the corporation engaging in the conduct or any other corporation the business dealings of which are restricted, limited or otherwise circumscribed by the conduct, or any body corporate related to either of those corporations, supplies or acquires goods or services or would, but for the conduct, supply or acquire, or be likely to supply or acquire, goods or services. '. 
Clause 23 is quite the major provision in this Bill. It covers 16 pages of the Bill and deals with a very great number of issues. The one which particularly agitates members on this side of the Committee is proposed new section  45D.  Indeed, it seems too that it delights honourable members opposite. But the reach of this clause is much wider than that and, as I anticipated earlier in the debate, the Opposition would have welcomed the amendments which would have included the proposed new section  45.  This is a great improvement on the existing section  45  and brings to bear on anti-competitive behaviour language which is much more appropriate for Australia and language which will be much more easily understood by the market place, by the Commission and by the parties who have to take applications to the Commission. 
I think that the very artificiality of the way in which the legislation has been constructed has brought problems for the Government. We referred earlier this evening to the way in which a new concept of exclusionary provisions has had to be erected, which is recognised here in proposed new section  45.  This is simply so that later in the Act in new section  45D  we can erect this new concept in relation to secondary boycotts in order that a little bit of union bashing can be engaged in. The first thing to say is that sections  45A, 45B, 45C  and  45D  are supposed to be by way of amplication of the proposed new section  45.  In fact, of course, they are nothing of the son. Section  45  is designed to deal with contracts and arrangements or understandings restricting dealings or affecting competition, but section  45D  does not deal simply with competition. It deals initially with damage being done to a corporation. That has nothing to do with anticompetitive behaviour. The amendments effected to section 46 are, from the Opposition's point of view, unobjectionable. But again, like the rest of these amendments in clause 23, they are contaminated by the presence of proposed section 45D and therefore will be opposed. 
It is in relation to proposed section 47 that the Opposition has the strongest objections. The socalled system of symmetry, of legislative tidiness, and of translating of vertical behaviour to the exclusive dealing provision contained in proposed new section 47 is positively inimical to the encouragement of competition in the Australian market place. The Minister was frank enough earlier this evening to allow that this was the very firm intention of the Government. Again tonight, amendment No. 20 that he has just moved and which stands in the name of the Government will amend the proposed clause to give effect to this by taking outside the provision of proposed section 45 ( 1 ) yet again contracts which contain socalled exclusionary provisions and ensuring that they are dealt with in proposed section 47 which is to cover all exclusive dealings. 
The consequence of this is very important. It is not altogether true to say, as the explanatory memorandum circulated by the Minister does, that a notification of exclusive dealing will automatically grant an immunity until that notification is disallowed, as it were, by the Trade Practices Commission. In fact, in relation to sub-sections (6) and (7) of proposed new section 47 the same procedure will apply as now applies under the present section 47 (4), that is, that just as with section 47 (4) at the moment no statutory interim clearance is available there will be by this behaviour, as it were, not putative authorisation available. But the main problem is that for a great deal of this behaviour such an authorisation now becomes automatically available. 
In addition, there is another item which is well worth remarking upon in relation to this clause. The Minister has now introduced another piece of legislation- I am speaking specifically of proposed new section 47- which does not catch ordinary commercial requirement contracts. In the legislation that he introduced last December they were covered and would have been dealt with if they were anti-competitive under the exclusive dealing provisions. They are now not expressly dealt with at all. That also is a major deficiency in this legislation. I am delighted that the Minister has come clean. I think that makes my position much easier. That was not done earlier. It was not done in the explanatory memorandum in which everything was passed off merely as being a tidying up operation. I do not think it is necessary to say more than this: It is a great shame that we could not have had this legislation presented to us in a way that the Opposition could have allowed at least a great part of proposed new section 45 and the next 3 proposed new sections to be passed without having to oppose them. We think that they improve the Act, particularly in relation to land and in the way in which the legislation seeks to get over the unduly restrictive interpretations of the court in the Quadramain case. That will be a great improvement to the Act. 
We are unable to overlook the mischief that would be done to the fabric of our society by the quite unnecessary inclusion of proposed new section 45d. It does not- this is where the Government must meet the challenge- deal simply with anti-competitive behaviour. It goes beyond that to deal with behaviour that in any event, not even upon the purest view, should have a place in competition law. I think that the Minister will have to concede that. Our differences are clear in relation to proposed section 47. 1 only wish that the Minister would go beyond saying: 'Yes, you have found us out. We have sought to take out a great deal of behaviour which presently is prohibited under section 45 and which would ave been prohibited under section 45 in the legislation that was introduced earlier this month and put it into section 47 to give it the advantage of being characterised as exclusive dealing and therefore able to get the preferential treatment in relation to notifications of that conduct which arises in Part VII of the Act '. The Minister should have moved beyond saying: 'Yes, that is our purpose', and should have explained to the House why that should be the case. 
The Minister ought to be aware, and I believe is aware, that this goes against the whole scheme of the Act. This scheme was meant to prohibit behaviour and persons who wanted to justify anti-competitive behaviour had to have that behaviour treated as the exception. Now we have the situation arising in which, in relation to exclusive dealing, the boot is on the other foot. All people have to do is simply to notify the Commission that they are engaging in this behaviour. The Commission cannot now act, and previously could act, simply to dismiss that notification because the behaviour is anti-competitive. It has to go on and determine whether a public benefit is involved. This is something that we will deal with later on. It poses very difficult questions. At this stage, the Minister ought to explain why it has been so necessary to take so much conduct in the market place which is presently prohibited and put it into a favoured category. For that reason, in addition of course to the inclusion of the completely objectionable proposed new section 45 D, the Opposition will be opposing clause 23. 
The amendment effected by clause 24 is relatively minor, but honourable members can be thankful that we have a section of the Act left to amend. This Government proposed to repeal section 49 of the Act in the December legislative proposals. The fact that it is not now proposed to do so is due solely to the efforts of the Opposition and the lobbying efforts of some of the small business organisations outside the Parliament. How shameful it was that in that defence of section 49 and in that defence of the price discrimination laws of this country we were not assisted by one Government member in the debate earlier this year. Not one Government member was prepared to come forward and say that the very thin reasoning of the Swanson Committee was not good enough to do away with a provision which had been in force for a little more than 2 years and which the Trade Practices Commission itself, in commenting on the Swanson Committee report recommendations, indicated had not been given enough trial. 
Honourable members on this side of the chamber are aware of the difficulties in working out price discrimination laws, but they have advantages in the relatively medium term in restructuring the Australian economy on a more soundly competitive basis. What we on this side of the chamber stood opposed to was the suggestion that suppliers ought to stand over small businessmen or to supply bigger organisations on a basis that was not available to small businesses such as the corner store. How often do we hear about small business from Government members? Yet, when Government members have the chance to stand up for small business and defend it, when they have the chance to defend small businessmen who work in their businesses and who risk their capital, Government members are curiously silent. A thread that runs through the whole of this Bill is the assumption that big business is to be cosseted and looked after at every turn. When it came to the small business organisation, it was not to be given the protection of the law. 
The law which was erected relatively recently to defend the small business organisation from the predatory acts and the discriminatory behaviour of big business was to be repealed. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has had second thoughts about it. I should like to recall to him the words that he threw back at us in February about what an obstruction this had been to the development of price flexibility in the Australian economy. He has had to eat those words. In his very brief and very limited speech in introducing this Bill he said - 
-The honourable member for Darling Downs is notorious in this chamber for standing up for cartels and for opposing the interests of small businessmen throughout Australia. I remember that the same guffawing from the same quarters joined the weak defence of the proposal to repeal section 49. Now that it has been saved, I should like to say that it has been saved because of the efforts of the Opposition. The Minister would do well to reflect on the fact that this proposition has been saved because of the efforts of the Opposition. We are delighted to see that it remains in the Act. The amendments are minor, but they will ensure at least that the provision remains and that it works. As I said, that is largely as a result of the efforts of the Opposition, particularly the efforts of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
Amendment 24 is quite objectionable. It adds to proposed new section 50 a definition of 'market' which will render the already weakened section 50 as proposed by the Government quite nugatory. The amendment proposes to insert the following new sub-section (3): 
a reference to a market for goods or services shall be construed as a reference to a substantial market for goods or services in Australia or in a State; 
It is a most peculiar provision to suggest that it has to be a substantial market. It is the only area in which the legislation speaks of the size of a market. In every other instance it is left to the 
Commission or the courts to determine what is a market. The word 'substantial' is not very helpful, particularly when it is followed by the words 'in Australia or in a State', because after all a suggestion that a market cannot cover more than one State or parts of Australia different from States would not be one readily recognisable by the Commission. The word 'substantial' too is not simply a word that relates to the geographic spread of a market but refers particularly to now we quantify a market by reference to products or services. So in adding this suggestion that there must be a substantial market, the Government has introduced into the legislation a very unusual provision. I think it is fair to say, given the innate conservatism of courts in Australia that they will assume that the Parliament, if it agrees to the insertion of these words has meant that the Commission, or indeed the court itself, is not at liberty to erect in its own mind a view of the market which is anything other than very large indeed. 
The proposed new section 50 and the test that the Government is now proposing to apply to mergers that they must offend before they are prohibited by this Act are very different from the present arrangement. At the moment, a company is prevented from acquiring another company or its assets if the effect is substantially to lessen competition in the market for goods and services. That is the test which the Government has used in its new section 45 ( 1 ). It is the test that the Government found attractive when it sought to rationalise the so-called multiplicity of tests of competitive effect which obtained in the 1974 Act. If one is looking for a common denominator which, whilst not being pitched too low, might at least have some real guts and meaning to it the words 'substantially lessening competition' are fairly unexceptionable. But, on this occasion, in relation to mergers the Government has moved out those words and substituted a much stricter test which must be met before the conduct is found offensive. A company must control or dominate a market for goods or services as a result of its activities. It must control or dominate not just any market but, in the terms of the amendment which the Minister has just moved, it has to be a substantial market. The statute does not provide any other assistance to the courts or the Commission about what constitutes a substantial market. 
Taken in association with the suggestion that it must control or dominate the market there will be so few companies caught by this new provision. What justification does the Government have for introducing such a different test in relation to mergers to that which has applied for a relatively short time? Is it because it has been able to determine that the kinds of mergers for which the Commission has denied authorisation in the past because they have offended section 50 of the existing Act ought to proceed? Is it because the numbers of specific instances which are set out in the decisions of the Commission are in some way offensive to them. In so many goods and services, whether it be the communication of ideas by the takeover of country radio stations and country newspapers by big monopolies or in relation to the milling capacity of sugar mills in concentrated areas of Queensland, in all these significant areas of the economy, the Commission has stood fast against encroaching monopoly which has been attempted to be effected through mergers which have offended the existing section 50 of the Act. 
If this is the sort of behaviour the Government wishes to see through why does it not say so? Are its supporters aware that this is the kind of behaviour which will now almost certainly be permitted if the amendment goes through? It seems to me that the Government certainly would not be able to come out and argue this in public. The Swanson Committee does not. When the Swanson Committee talked about the merger provisions of the existing Act it wanted to introduce a threshold test. That suggestion was found attractive by the Government. It introduced it in its December legislative proposal when it used a dollar figure in relation to which there would be a rough test whether the merger offended and whether it attracted the attention of the Act. In this case the Government has moved right away from that proposal. It has moved to a concept which is even more foreign to what I believe is the basis upon which competition laws operate in every country in the world. They do not look simply at mergers which would result in control or domination of a market. They talk about substantially lessening competition and that kind of test already exists in the present section. For that reason we find the proposed amendment quite offensive. 
Indeed, the arguments put forward in the Swanson Committee report as to the satisfactory nature or otherwise of the existing merger provisions were not found to be attractive by the Trade Practices Commission. Admittedly the Commission was speaking about the threshold test proposed by the Swanson Committee. Regrettably we have not had the opportunity to have expert commentary from the Commission on the Government's proposals but one can guess that it would at least subscribe to the same views in relation to that that it took in relation to the proposed insertion of a threshold test. In its comments which were released for public discussion the Commission said that there may be real doubts whether a threshold system could be satisfactorily grafted on to an Act at all, given that the approach of the Act- that is the 1974 Act- was to state principles of general application and to place emphasis on competition. 
The Minister might well be able to say that he stated in his new proposed section 50 a principle of general application but it certainly does not mention competition anywhere; the existing section 50 does. Existing section 50 applies a test of substantially lessening competition. That would be a test consistent with everything that we know about what tends to be a monopoly and with everything that we apply as a test to the behaviour of companies in relation to so many other practices. Why should companies be able to achieve by mergers that which they are unable to achieve by agreements? If the effect of an agreement were not to control or to dominate a market, it would, in many instances, still be found to be grossly anti-competitive and to contain no public benefit whatsoever, let alone one that would outweigh the supposed anti-competitive effect. But because in this case companies will be able to structure arrangements in such a way, they will be able, by effecting what might seem to be a technical merger for the purposes of section 50- that is, by acquiring shares or assets- to do what they would not be able to do by means of a straight out agreement amongst themselves. That will be able to be achieved because the Government seeks to apply here a different test to that which we apply to corporate behaviour in the rest of the Act. That is quite offensive to the Opposition. For that reason we shall oppose the proposed amendments- both amendment 24 which the Minister has just moved and the proposed amendment to clause 25 of the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Who advised Government House, Canberra, to request  Her  Majesty The Queen to sign a Letter of Credence to the  President  of Ireland in terms which, although Prime Minister Menzies and Minister for External Affairs Casey adhered to them very strongly  (Hansard,  27 September 1956, page 905), were abandoned in 1958  (Hansard,  19 April 1977, page 985). 
) When and on whose advice was the corrected Letter of Credence dispatched by Government House to Her Majesty. 
As the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  says, he did discuss this proposed deletion with members of the Opposition. Of course what it does is point up the very complexity of this legislation. It is on the record now that the Opposition has the strongest objection to the way in which section 50 of the Trade Practices Act is being recast. It is not our intention here to again canvass those arguments. Suffice it to say that the very kind of technical amendment with which the Government has had so much difficulty, which it brought to the attention of the Committee just yesterday, and which now involves the Government in having to seek leave to have the whole clause recommitted so that the amendment might be deleted, points up exactly the kinds of complex considerations which arise in this legislation and about which the Opposition feels there has been altogether too much haste and ill-considered thought on the part of the Government. Naturally enough, the Opposition will not be dividing on this amendment; we did that last night. However, we say that section 50, as recast, is still thoroughly objectionable and the deletion of this proposed sub-section of new section 50 will not solve the problem. Section 50 is still thoroughly objectionable. Again, as I said, we said all that last night. All we are doing now in reconsidering this clause is again seeing just how hastily this matter is being considered by the Committee, by the House and by the Parliament. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as further amended, agreed to. 
Clause 26. 
Section 5 1 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraphs (a) to (d), inclusive, of subsection (2 ) and substituting the following paragraphs:- '(b) to any provision of a contract of service or of a contract for the provision of services, being a provision under which a person, not being a body corporate, agrees to accept restrictions as to the work, whether as an employee or otherwise, in which he may engage during, or after the termination of, the contract, arrangement or understanding; 

 Mr HOWARD (Bennelong-Minister for 
Business and Consumer Affairs) (8.8)- I move: 
In paragraph (b)(b), omit ', arrangement or understanding'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to correct a technical error in referring to arrangements or understandings when the provision applies only to contracts. It is indeed the correction of only a technical error. 
Opposition members have been waiting for the opportunity to say something nice about the Government and about some of this legislation. I think it is fair to say, in relation to the clauses we are now considering dealing with consumer protection, that many of these clauses considerably improve the existing Trade Practices Act. This is particularly so in relation to the expansion of Part V which deals with the description of the sort of behaviour which is now prohibited. The Committee will note the extra specificity with which the behaviour is described. In many people's minds there are some things with which the Opposition would not often be seen to be associated. For instance, in clauses  44  and  45  which amend sections  76  and  79  of the Act there is some softening of penalties. Section  76  refers to pecuniary penalties being imposed on persons involved in contravention of proposed new section  45D.  Clearly, the Opposition supports that proposition. 
The amendment to section 79 removes the penalty of imprisonment for consumer protection. I think it ought to be said that the Opposition supports that proposal. Quite often the Australian Labor Party is presented as being a basher of business. Nothing could be further from the truth. On this occasion let us say that we frankly concede that it is more appropriate to have a pecuniary provision. For this land of contravention we do not believe the threat of imprisonment adds very much to the likelihood of the Act being effective and being implemented. 
However, there are other provisions here which are not quite so unexceptionable. I think the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  will anticipate at least one of the provisions about which I believe all members of the Opposition have some doubts. That is the amendment to section 80 which relates to injunctions being granted. There is now a limitation on persons who seek injunctions in relation to mergers. That restricts this action to the Commission and to the Minister. We on the Opposition side would perhaps prefer that the wider provision which presently obtains should continue. In fact, other interested parties might also have been able to institute such proceedings particularly in relation to matters which have public interest, such as mergers, dissenting shareholders and perhaps competitive bidders. 
Some of the other provisions of these clauses with which we are dealing are very worthwhile. They are the best recommendations of the Swanson Committee. They are the ones which I believe were a shock to the Government, or at least to certain members of the Government. When the Government commissioned the Committee it believed that the terms of reference given to it meant that the Committee would come back with unfavourable recommendations in relation to the workings of the Act. In fact the Committee came back and not only recommended strengthening of the consumer protection provisions in relation to what would constitute a contravention, but in relation to the remedies available went a good way towards making them much more effective than they had been. I am referring here particularly to the provisions involved in clause 47, which will now give courts power to order affirmative disclosure and corrective advertising. 
When the Government responded to this recommendation in the December legislative proposal and introduced this amendment, there was no monetary limit on the amount of corrective advertising or affirmative disclosure that a court could order. The Government has now decided that rather than have an open ended commitment for a company which contravenes, it should limit the amount to $50,000. Again, the Opposition does not propose to oppose that limitation, but we would have preferred it had the amount of any affirmative disclosure or corrective advertising been left to the discretion of the court. After all, there are not many areas of law where courts are bound by these kinds of limitations. But on this occasion let us give it a go and see how it works. It is certainly an improvement on the existing Act. 
The Opposition is delighted to give its support to a great many of the provisions involved, especially those in clauses 27 to 42 of the legislation. As I have said, we do not believe that the removal of the imprisonment penalty is inappropriate in relation to Part V offences and we welcome the Government's response to the Swanson Committee recommendations in relation to affirmative disclosure and corrective advertising orders by courts. So far as limitation in dollar terms goes, we would hope that the Government will keep that under consideration and, if it is seen that the amount is not sufficient to counteract practices which are prohibited by the Act, give consideration to amending the Act to insert a more appropriate amount or to removing the limitation so that it can be left in the discretion of the Court. 
The Opposition will oppose clause 49. Clause 49 amends section 85 of the Trade Practices Act. That section provides a defence to prosecutions under Part V, which contains the consumer protection provisions. What the amendment proposes is to ease considerably the case that a defendant has to make to defend successfully a consumer protection prosecution under Part V. The explanatory memorandum circulated by the Minister describes the way in which section 85 is amended. Section 85 at present provides that reasonable conduct may be a defence to a consumer protection prosecution, and that section will be restructured to provide separate defences of reasonable mistake, reasonable reliance on information supplied by another person, and default of another person which could not reasonably have been prevented. 
This provision was suggested by the Swanson Committee. That is indisputable. But I think that honourable members ought to look at the case the Swanson Committee put for such a proposition. The Swanson Committee's consideration of defences to consumer protection prosecutions occupies no more than 3 paragraphs or 2 pages in a report of 260 pages. Yet it makes mere assertions that the existing defence operates in a unduly harsh fashion and considers that a major change is desirable. The Opposition agrees with the Swanson Committee that the change is a major one. Just as the Opposition, in a large and generous fashion, has conceded that the Government has responded well to many of the suggestions of the Swanson Committee in expanding the provisions of part V to cover objectionable behaviour in the market place, now we say that all that good work, all the filling of holes in relation to consumer protection, will have been destroyed if this defence is allowed to be weakened. 
I think honourable members would do well to look at the existing defence. It was found to be quite adequate by the Trade Practices Commission when it commented on the Swanson Committee recommendations. Before I draw the attention of honourable members to the wording I shall get this point straight. The Government, in introducing clause 49 amending section 85, is responding to a Swanson Committee recommendation. The Trade Practices Commission therefore had the opportunity to comment on this recommendation in a direct way- a way in which it has not had the opportunity to comment on many of the provisions which the Government has put before the House in this legislation. The Commission thought the recommendation inappropriate. It thought that it would considerably weaken the consumer protection provisions and render them somewhat illusory. 
If honourable members direct their attention to existing section 85 they will see why. It is a defence under that section if a contravention is due to a mistake, to reliance on information supplied by another person, as a result of an act or default of another person, or due to an accident or some other cause beyond the control of the defendant. Section 85 as it presently stands says that a defendant must establish: 
That he took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence to avoid contravention. 
Two elements are involved; reasonable precautions and due diligence. The proposition that the Government has put before the Committee tonight provides that the element of due diligence should be removed in relation to mistakes arising from reliance on information supplied by other persons and merely applicable to the acts or defaults of other persons or accidents. There has been a considerable weakening and softening of this defence. I am sure the Minister will concede that. I should like him to address himself more directly than he did in his second reading speech- he did not do so at all in the explanatory memorandum- to the reservations that the Trade Practices Commission expressed about this proposition. At paragraphs 24, 25 and 26 of its comments on the Swanson Committee recommendations the Commission said: 
The Committee accepts . . .  that  section 53, the detailed contravention section, imposes strict liability and appears to indicate that that is appropriate. The consequence is that intention is not an element of an offence of contravening the section, and companies must therefore take care that unintended offences are not committed. 
The amendment proposed by the Committee - 
I interpolate that that is the amendment now being put to the Committee by the Government-  would in some cases lift from the company the obligation to take reasonable precautions and exercise due diligence to avoid the contravention. 
The Commission goes on to say- I stress this point: 
It is difficult to see why it is harsh for companies to bear this obligation if it is necessary in order to protect the consumer. The Committee regards section 53, the main contravention section, as dealing with conduct which has demonstrably led to abuses and involves a real potential for harm. 
The Commission concludes: 
If there should be an occasional case in which the section does operate unduly harshly, then the Minister could withhold his consent to prosecution, without the general disciplinary effect of the law being changed. 
The final paragraph, paragraph 26 of the comments of the Trade Practices Commission on the Swanson Committee recommendations, sums up the reservation one needs to have, if there is one in relation to any consumer protection prosecutions. The defence now proposed is much too easy. It is too easy for a recklessly negligent business firm to get away with behaviour which it could not get away with at the moment. At present, not only does it have to exercise reasonable precaution but it also has to show due diligence to avoid a contravention. 
Part V is addressed to very specific circumstances. That is worth repeating. Part V is not like Part IV. Part IV speaks in general terms. Part V speaks specifically. In all those circumstances, having regard to the way the Government has commendably reacted to the Swanson Committee recommendations to fill holes and improve gaps in the legislation, all that work will be undone if we now weaken the defence and make a defence easier to establish. To do that will be to reduce effectively consumer protection in Australia. For that reason, the Opposition must oppose clause 49 and urge the Government to reconsider this provision. 
Very briefly, and without canvassing the existence of the Minister's power to consent to consumer protection prosecutions, I would not want to let the contribution of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  go unanswered. He takes me to task for a lack of understanding of the concept of due diligence. He says that an accident can never occur as a result of a lack of due diligence. If he looks at the provision which the Government proposes to insert into the legislation- proposed new paragraph (c) of sub-section (1) of section 85- he will see that it reads: 
the contravention in respect of which the proceeding was instituted was due . . . to an accident or to some other cause beyond the defendant's control; and 
the defendant took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence. . . . 
I am afraid that at least the Government must be under the same misapprehension. I do not need to stress the point again because I know that the Minister will have grasped it. At the moment, in each case the defendant must be able to show that he took reasonable precautions and exercised due diligence. Now the defence is being broken up. So, in relation to a mistake, he has only to show that it was reasonable; in relation to reliance on information supplied by another person, he has only to show that it was reasonable; but in relation to the other matters, I concede that both existing elements remain. My objection is, as the Minister will quickly understand, that 'due diligence' ought also to be applicable to the mistake and reliance on information supplied by other persons. 
I support everything that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said about this piece of legislation. Let me flesh out for the Committee the particular objections the Opposition has to the clauses presently under consideration. They are clauses of central importance to the restructuring of trade practices law which is being undertaken here. 
At the moment the Trade Practices Commission proceeds about its administrative adjudications in 2 ways. It issues what are called clearances and it issues what are called authorisations. It is now proposed that no longer should the commission issue clearances. Clearances are a relatively speedy procedure whereby the Commission determines that behaviour which is the subject of an application is not anti-competitive and therefore is not to be considered under the authorisation proceedings. The Government proposes to do away with clearances. I believe that that amendment is not welcomed uniformly by business. Ethical business enjoys the opportunity to be able to go to the Commission in relation to proposed business practices and put the practices to the Commission to see whether they will be considered anti-competitive, particularly before agreements are concluded with companies. At the moment that process will no longer be available. In particular it will no longer be available in relation to mergers. 
Honourable members will recall that in December when the Government brought in its first proposals in relation to these amendments, when it proposed a threshold test for mergers and not its new revised test, the Government saved clearances for mergers- the better to give business a degree of certainty in the way in which it goes about its corporate planning. This was because business when it goes into a merger has to set up the finance. It may have to borrow money; it may have to pay a commitment fee on that money being set aside for the acquisition. And yet in some instances under the present procedures it will have no idea whether the merger will be able to proceed. Under the clearance procedures, which are now available and which the Government formerly proposed ought still to be available, it would be a relatively speedy way within 30 days of determining whether the merger offended the anti-competitive aspect of law. Now that is to be removed. The opposition believes that this is a retrograde step. 
Let me say too in fairness to the Government that it can claim fairly here that it is responding to a recommendation of the Swanson Committee, but it was a recommendation that in no way went unchallenged. The Trade Practices Commission itself, which I think everyone would agree is fairly coy in seeking to enter into the political arena, had this to say about that recommendation: 
To the extent that the Commission is moved out of the clearance area, the role of developing and applying competition principles in Australian industrial and commercial situations may pass to the courts which may result in legalism. 
I think if we look at a number of the provisions we have considered in the past couple of days we will see that many have been necessitated because of this very legalistic approach that the courts apply to competition laws. The Commission, or a body of that sort, is a much more appropriate body to consider them. 
Clearances having been removed, how does the Government propose now to deal with a consideration of the behaviour that was formerly the subject of such applications? The answer is that the Government has shifted the same behaviour now to be considered with authorisation. An authorisation hearing by the Commission was and is at the moment of a completely different nature to that of a clearance. When we come to an authorisation the Commission must consider many factors other than whether the behaviour is merely anti-competitive. It has to consider also whether there might be a substantial benefit to the public not otherwise available. I stress every element of that description- 'a substantial benefit not otherwise available '. 
The Government now proposes that the Commission ought to consider in respect of authorisations both the anti-competitive effect and the question of public benefit. The Government has significantly too, when we look at the clauses we are dealing with concering matters to be considered by the Commission, weakened the test in relation to authorisations. It has removed the suggestion that there must be substantial public benefit. It simply now has to be a benefit which outweighs any anti-competitive elements of the conduct. The Trade Practices Commission thought that this kind of amendment was not to be encouraged. In fact it said that the deletion of the requirement that the benefit must not otherwise be available had very serious consequences. The Commission pointed out in its comments on the Swanson Committee's recommendations that the Shell service station decision turned on the question of solo trading which was by and large an efficient way of doing business. The Commission said: 
It was true that exclusive dealings secured solo trading, but it was likely, and subsequent events proved, that solo trading would continue in most cases for good commercial reasons . . . 
The Commission concluded:  . . . Without the not otherwise available requirement, it would have been necessary to consider authorising an unnecessary restriction on competition. 
That is what is important. It is an unnecessary restriction on competition. Not only has the Government by these amendments weakened the anti-competitive behaviour which is proscribed by the Act by allowing or directing the Commission to have regard to benefits that might in any case be available; it also has immediately authorised behaviour that presently is prohibited. This relates, of course, particularly to exclusive dealing and the fact that the Government has by these amendments translated from the general prohibition in section 45 to section 47, which deals specifically and now exhaustively with exclusive dealing, all practices of that sort. It is provided now that a company merely by notifying the Commission of this behaviour will automatically and until the Commission otherwise determines be able to pursue that conduct. 
At the moment under the existing Act the Commission can simply determine that the behaviour is anti-competitive and therefore no statutory interim clearance is available. That can be done relatively quickly because there are only a couple of matters that need to be considered. But now the Commission must have regard to the question of whether in fact there is a benefit and whether that benefit outweighs the anticompetitive effects of the conduct. That clearly takes a great deal more time. 
If we look at the annual reports of the Commission we will see that by far the greatest number of applications it considers are in this category. They are in the category of exclusive dealing, and they have been particularly in relation to statutory interim clearances, relatively quickly disposed of up until now. That procedure will not now be available. So the whole effect of these amendments is to permit conduct which is presently prohibited. In relation to some conduct where corporations can get a statutory interim clearance for the time being, that conduct will now be permitted for a very much longer time. In many cases it will be permitted for all time. When we look at these conditions it is important to see how authorisations are to be considered. Until now authorisations could be considered by a public hearing. We mentioned this earlier when we were dealing with the amendment which repealed the procedures which are observed in a public hearing. 
The Minister said that he did not think that public hearings were a good thing because companies could be, as it were, defamed in the proceedings. But, in any event, the practices which companies pursue can be mentioned quite specifically m the determinations of a commission. Now there is not the opportunity for interveners to come forward and publicly challenge companies about their business practives 
Very briefly, the other practice which we believe is reprehensible is the suggestion that there ought to be compulsory conferences before a decision is given in authorisation applications. We believe that this will inhibit the Commission in its dealings with the parties and will stop the parties from being free in their discussions. 
I am glad it is up because the honourable member may have heard something - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-With respect, I think that the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  is confused. Of course, a body other than a court remains at the centre of this matter. There is no dispute about that. Authorisation proceedings are still of great importance. The Opposition, for the whole time, has been talking about the inadequate way in which the Commission will not be able to pursue that duty. The suggestion that in some way we are seeking to oust the jurisdiction of the courts or stop people's access to the courts is simply not correct. I was glad that the honourable member for Higgins introduced the subject of proposed new section 45D. I think, in relation to Part VII of the Act which deals with authorisation and now what are called notifications- we have no more clearances-that the ultimate absurdity of this legislation is exposed. 
In relation to section 45D- industrial union bashing- we see that we can, in fact, apply for an authorisation for a secondary boycott by a union. I would like to know on what possible basis the Commission will ever determine that there is a public benefit in behaviour which goes to the restriction or the hindering of the supply of goods which damages a corporation and which has no effect on competition whatsoever. If we look at section 45 D we see that there are 2 elements. One element goes simply to the damage to a corporation and the other goes to the lessening of competition. I concede, as I conceded earlier in the debate, that in regard to the second element . there is a purist view that that has a place in competition law. The first element clearly has not. What do we do when we get an application for authorisation of section 45D conduct? It is difficult enough as it is to specify with any precision the factors which might properly be taken into account in determining whether particular industrial action is of the requisite benefit to the public. 
The criteria the Commission has evolved in the interpretation of the legislation involves reference to such factors as whether the practice will result in higher or lower prices, increases or decreases in the availability of goods, changes in the structure and long term efficiency of the industry in question, incentives for innovation, waste in the allocation of natural resources and so on. The question is usually reduced to whether the presumption in favour of competition ought to be waived in a particular case. The difficulty in applying any such criteria in the present contextthat is a secondary boycott by a union- is, as other honourable members on this side have observed this evening, that a great deal of industrial action has nothing to do with trade practices; that is, it has no implications for free competition or fair trade. Yet it is caught by this legislation. Perhaps the Trade Practices Commission will find it possible to employ some of the public interest criteria which have evolved in various contexts under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but it is by no means obvious that these principles are applicable here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Might  I point out to the honourable member that I was probably in error in allowing the honourable member for Higgins to go as far as he did before I eventually pulled him up. There should not be a second reading debate at this stage, nor should section 45D or clause 23 be the full substance of a speech at this stage of the Committee debate. I appeal to the honourable member to direct his remarks to the clause under discussion. 
I share your concern,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  You were perfectly right to pull up the honourable member for Higgins because he was not addressing himself to the authorisation procedures.I am addressing myself to the authorisation procedures. If one looks at proposed section 90, sub-section (8), it will be observed that it deals with authorisation of section 45D behaviour. Of course it is absurd, and I share your concern that we should be debating in relation to a trade practices Bill behaviour which has nothing whatsoever to do with competition law. I should like the Minister to tell the Committee what possible grounds he can conceive of ever being justified as a public benefit in relation to that kind of behaviour. Of course he cannot because those sorts of provisions were never meant to apply to that kind of activity. The public hearings nave gone and the authorisation test has been weakened Reprehensible behaviour and exclusive dealing conduct now have  carte-blanche  and the work of the Commission is so much more difficult. In these provisions the Government has effectively gutted the legislation, and for that reason the Opposition will oppose every one of these clauses. Notwithstanding that there may be a few clauses which are consequently related to other provisions to which we have no objection, the vast majority of the clauses affecting Part VII are thoroughly objectionable and the Opposition will oppose them. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman- 

I address my remarks in relation to clause 7 dealing with the powers of the Commission. Of course the clause does not spell out anything. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  mentioned earlier in the Committee stage that he thought a satisfactory way of reviewing the framework of legal aid in Australia - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I ask honourable members not to stand in the aisles. I require to hear what the honourable member for Grayndler is talking about. 
We are talking about clause 5 which deals with the constitution of the Commission. I think that the Opposition has moved an important amendment. It talks about the persons who ought to be on the Commission. At the moment it is perfectly clear that the Attorney-General contemplates that every one of the commissioners, excluding perhaps the commissioner appointed by the Australian Council of Social Service, should be a lawyer. There is no requirement in this clause that any commissioner appointed should have any connection with legal aid services either as a practitioner in that field, or as a representative of a client group. We on the Opposition side feel that that is a very grave deficiency. 
A couple of other points arise in relation to clause S. The amendment which the Opposition proposes relates only to paragraph (c) of subclause ( 1 ) of clause 5 which relates to the 2 commissioners nominated by the Attorney-General. We suggest that at least one of these commissioners ought to be engaged full-time in the provision of legal aid services. I think that in relation to paragraph (d) one is also entitled to have reservations. Whilst it is perfectly clear that the wording of the paragraph would permit of commissioners who are not resident in States, it is very clear from the second reading speech of the Attorney-General that he contemplates that they should be commissioners from the States. He spoke of 2 members nominated under that paragraph being drawn from 'each State'. In fact the whole scheme of legal aid which the AttorneyGeneral is laying before us now relates in addition to 2 Territories for which this Parliament at the moment has responsibility which it cannot escape. It seems to me that there could be commissioners from those jurisdictions. The are very likely to have a more complete experience of legal aid which they ought to be able to place before the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission than are commissioners merely from States, especially those who will be suggested by State Attorneys-General. 
I therefore look to the Attorney-General's response to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bo wen)  and in particular his response to the suggestion of the Opposition that there has been no consideration in the constitution of the Commission of the interests of client groups, particularly as recommended by the Sackville report. In addition, I seek his response that in relation to the constitution of the Commission and those nominations from the State AttorneysGeneral, he will have regard to persons resident in the Territories. 
I propose punctiliously to confine myself to the clause under consideration, as is my wont. In relation to clause 5 which is affected by the amendment circulated, by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I completely back up everything he has said about the red herring drawn across our path by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  If there is one person in this place who can read legislation, it is the Attorney-General. He knows very well that in talking of a management committee in relation to the Australian Legal Aid Office, he is talking about something completely different from a legal aid commission which the Labor Government proposed to establish under its Legal Aid Bill. Honourable members who sit behind the Attorney-General may not understand this but there is no excuse for the Attorney-General not to understand. Of course, the Government constitutes a management body which is to administer the Legal Aid Office differently from the Commission which was charged- as the Commission to be established under this piece of legislation is not charged- with giving funds to all legal aid services throughout Australia. 
Very briefly, I shall address some remarks to clause 3, sub-clause (3) which deals with financial assistance. I suppose that could be the only provision under which the Attorney-General was permitted a wide ambit for his remarks. He referred specifically to a situation about which I know something. He talked about the duty solicitor scheme administered through the Australian Legal Aid Office. If the Attorney-General knew anything about his portfolio he would know that that scheme is a farce. The members of that Office are so overworked that duty solicitor work at courts is a luxury which they are able to pursue very occasionally. The Attorney-General was kind enough to instance the Legal Aid Office in my constituency with which I am familiar. 
-The AttorneyGeneral might listen because I will be telling him something he ought to know. He talked about the Leichhardt branch of the Legal Aid Office. Occasionally it provides for the duty solicitor scheme at the Glebe Court of Petty Sessions. It provides no assistance at the Newtown Court of Petty Sessions and it never has. That vacancy has been filled by the Public Solicitor scheme which the Attorney-General sought to deprecate in a most narrow and partisan fashion. I cannot imagine to which constituent the AttorneyGeneral needs to appeal in the State Council of the Liberal Party that he was so intemperate in his remarks about the Attorney-General of New South Wales who filled up a gap which ought to have been filled long ago. The Attorney-General on the other side of the table has allowed himself smugly to remark that the Attorney-General of New South Wales sought assistance for a duty solicitor scheme at every country court house in rural areas of New South Wales. Then, to suggest that in some way the New South Wales Attorney was being hypocritical is absurd. If that need exists and it can be established to the satisfaction of the Attorney-General, why does he not fund it? In 1975 in his speech on the Legal Aid Bill he stated:  . . . there is a limitation on the legal assistance or legal representation which can be aided by a federal legal aid office. 
I put it to you,  Mr Attorney,  that there is no limitation on the legal assistance and legal representation which can be provided by a federally funded legal aid office. On that basis all the remarks you have made tonight are offensive to the persons whom I represent, my constituents whose hopes are turned away when they go to a source of information which was never available before 1972. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member might remember that he is addressing his remarks to me and not personally to any other honourable member of the Committee. 
Of course I do. 
I shall extend my remarks to the definition in sub-clause (2) because the eminent police court lawyer is interjecting from the back. Because some of us have never sought financial advantage from this sort of practice, that is supposed to be some disadvantage. I suppose that next it will be a disadvantage,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  if we give legal assistance to pursue corporate criminals in the insurance companies based in Melbourne which are cheated by their management and which are managed by the great families of this country. We on this side of the Committee will not put up with that. The financial assistance offered by the Parliament is a matter of record. Before 1972 it was nil. After  Senator Murphy  established the Legal Aid Office in 1973, it was expanded greatly. When the Attorney-General- my remarks relate to the definition of financial assistanceimposed a means test which was mean beyond belief, he upset the hopes and aspirations of many persons who had never had access to the courts of law in this country before. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  goes to the very heart of the objections of the Opposition to this piece of legislation. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  said in his second reading speech that the Bill he was introducing set out the Federal Government's contribution to the provision oflegal aid in federal areas. If honourable members look at clause 6, which deals with the functions of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission, they will see that it has nothing to do with the provision of legal aid. There is no suggestion at all that the Commission ought to plan or direct the provision oflegal aid in Australia anywhere. The paragraph to which the Attorney-General gives most attention is paragraph (b) of proposed clause 6 which seeks merely to give the Commission power to make recommendations in relation to the matters there set out. I think it is important that the Committee at this stage should consider what those matters are. 
The first thing it is necessary to understand is that every one of the matters is restricted by this definition of 'in respect of a Commonwealth matter'. Again, we see this blinkered, conservative, knee-jerk response. Instead of seeing a problem and planning a way to solve it, all the Government ever sees are obstacles. On this basis the Government seeks to identify persons whom it is not able to assist and areas in which it is not able to assist. It seeks to make things as complicated as possible. My friend, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  is frowning. I want to repeat to him what it was that the Attorney-General said in introducing this legislation. He said: 
The legislation which establishes the State and Territorial Commissions will require them to have regard to the recommendations of a Commonwealth Commission in providing legal aid in the Federal area. 
That is, these State commissions are to have regard in a mandatory way to the recommendations of the Commission with which we are dealing in paragraph (b) of clause 6. What can those recommendations cover? The first thing and the most important thing and the threshold thing for any person who goes into a Legal Aid Office is the means test and his eligibility. If one looks at the explanatory memorandum circulated by the Attorney-General, one will note that under item (ii) of paragraph (b), where he talks about criteria, that is meant to cover means tests. We know the record of this Government in relation to means tests. It has been to limit them. However much the Attorney-General might talk about the dollar amounts now being expended by the Federal Government on legal aid, he would concede that the means tests have been tightened and that persons who were formerly able, under the guidelines established during 1973 and 1975, to qualify for free legal advice and assistance or for legal assistance subject to a contribution, are now no longer able to get such assistance. 
This goes to the very heart of access to our legal process in Australia. If a person is to be means tested out initially, that will limit any rights that can be granted under any schemes in relation to which this grand Commission of the Attorney-General's makes recommendations. What will happen to someone in a serious matter say a criminal charge, who goes into a legal aid office administered by one of the State commissions and is given an initial means test form to fill in? He might be told that he is eligible on the assumption that the offence comes under the State Crimes Act. But then it is discovered that the offence comes under the federal Crimes Act and therefore he is not eligible for assistance. That is what will happen. That is what is contemplated. The Attorney-General has planned this legislation so that the Commission merely has powers to recommend and the funds provided at any time by the Federal Government can be cut off and controlled because the attorney is able to direct State commissions as to the means tests which they must apply in relation to so-called federal matters. What an artificial distinction. 
I suppose that the best example is in relation to the drug laws. Everybody in this country knows that young people now are living in a very difficult time and are subjected to influences to which none of us were subjected when we were growing up. Whether the police choose to charge a person under a federal or State law is very likely a matter of whim, of what it suits them best to do in relation to the prodecures under which they can detain a person or the evidence on which they can charge him. The AttorneyGeneral knows that one of the reasons why the police seek to lay charges under the federal law is that it is easier to get a prosecution because of the evidence they need to offer. What difference does that make to anybody in the Australian community whose child, who may well not even be of voting age or may be only 18 or so, goes into an office and is told: 'We would be able to assist you under the State-administered means test but not under the federal test, which has been recommended by the Commission or in relation to which the Attorney-General has given us a direction under the agreement that the State concluded'. The Attorney-General has said that that is what he is going to do. What an unsatisfactory situation that is, and those are the kinds of offences where it will occur. It could happen in other important areas, in areas of environmental law, I instanced earlier cases where the physical amenities of people are interfered with. They do not care whether the expenditure is incurred by a State or Federal Government. They do not know anything about that. Honourable members know that the first thing they have to do whenever a constituent comes in to see them about a problem is identify the compartment of our governmental system into which the problem fits. People do not care about that, so why are we not concerning ourselves in the Federal Parliament to establish a system of legal aid which will ensure that funds are available across the board? 
I want to revert briefly to the area of criminal jurisdiction to which I referred earlier. If we are looking to rationalise this system across Australia, I can see grave dangers. The AttorneyGeneral deprecated the provision of legal aid in New South Wales. In relation to the public defender scheme there, the provision of legal aid for serious crimes is very generous, possibly one of the best schemes in Australia. I can see that offences which are roughly similar will qualify under State guidelines as to the means test and the eligibility of applicants but would not qualify under the guidelines presently administeredpresently administered, mind you- by the Australian Legal Aid Office. For all those reasons, the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith becomes absolutely vital It provides that the Commission shall be charged with the provision of legal aid services wherever possible. We might run into constitutional limitations, but let us face facts. It might be just as easy to conclude arrangements with the State governments whereby they make a reference of their powers, wherever there is any lacunae, to the Federal Government to fill up that gap. That could be just as easy. 
In relation to the way in which State commissions which are funded on the recommendations of the Federal Commission go about their business, the proviso contained in proposed paragraph (b) of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith addresses the problems of community involvement. I think honourable members would have to concede- the Attorney-General was half-obliged to concede it- that this matter is not sufficiently addressed in the present constitution of this Commission. There is one other matter to which I want to refer briefly. The AttorneyGeneral ought to acknowledge that the power of recommendations in relation to financial assistance and provision of legal assistance goes only to the way in which that assistance is given by State commissions. In relation to organisations like the Fitzroy Legal Service, all that the Federal Commission will be able to do is make a report on these kinds of services. If we allow this legislation to go out of the Federal Parliament if we allow ourselves to wash our hands of a concern to establish proper legal aid, if we do not direct the Attorney-General as to the matters he must address in the agreements he says he is going to conclude with the States, we will have been deficient in our duty to all our constituents to provide that every Australian, wherever he lives from the north-west of Australia to the furthest reaches of southern Tasmania, gets the same access to legal services in Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Let me say at the outset that there has never been any suggestion from this side of the House that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  would be involved in an affair similar to the disgraceful Greenwood affair in Queensland. He does know about the Constitution and he knows about taking briefs from the Crown. In addition, when he said that things were so rosy in the garden in Tasmania, I thought it might almost be that an apple a day kept the lawyers at bay. He then went on to acknowledge that at least the Australian Legal Aid Office in that State had fulfilled a very useful function indeed. 
I might as well start off in this debate by reverting to the speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in the debate on the Legal Aid Bill 1975. The honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was characteristically kind to the Attorney-General when he drew upon some of the elements in that speech which attracted his support, elements which he saw as being absent from the piece of legislation before the House at the moment. The Attorney-General started out exhibiting his great interest in legal aid by pointing to some sinister conspiracy being evidenced by the fact that all Australian Legal Aid Offices established to that date had been established in Labor electorates. If that so offended the Attorney-General, he is now to blame, because since he has been Attorney-General no more offices have been established. If he has his way, no more will be established. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he was Leader of the Opposition in August 1975 made a firm commitment on behalf of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. He said that when they got into government, and he knew they were coming in soon, they would abolish the Australian Legal Aid Office. They have done that. That is what is effected in this piece of legislation. What do we see erected in its place? This 
Bill, which runs to about 2 1 pages, has one page which deals with the functions of the proposed new Legal Aid Commission. What are those functions? Are they to provide a legal service? No. That is why the Opposition is opposing this Bill and that is why I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. The Government is doing away with an existing legal aid service and establishing nothing in its place. 
Listening to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  with his constant talk of eligibility, reminded me of the mealy mouthed language which flows so often from counter clerks in social security offices, who are only keen to administer the rules. We saw this same mad obsession with so-called 'Federal persons' in the offering of the Attorney-General last time, and that was over 2 years ago. At that time the Attorney-General was concerned to limit the funds provided by this Parliament for legal aid to so-called 'Federal persons'. He went even further and limited it to actions arising under Acts passed by this Parliament. No amount of talk about the funds appropriated by this Parliament and the funds appropriated by State Parliaments is to the point. Before we had the Australian Legal Aid Office there had never been in Australia a commitment to provide a national legal service, to provide legal aid on any coordinated basis right around Australia, to make Australians equal before the law. This Legal Aid Commission legislation is designed precisely to abrogate that responsibility. The AttorneyGeneral knows that in pursuing the so-called federalism policies of the Government he might eventually be able to limit the real amounts of money that are made available by this Parliament for legal aid. Not only does he want to limit the amounts of money in dollar terms but he also wants to limit the effectiveness of this aid. 
-Harken to the idiot son of the Establishment. The honourable member for Parramatta was quite unable to understand what this legislation does. It does not provide that citizens can go ino a one-stop legal aid centre, there to obtain legal advice and legal assistance on all questions. The Legal Aid Commission is empowered to make recommendations to the Attorney-General on the provision of legal assistance in Commonwealth matters, and it is those words 'in Commonwealth matters' to which we take great exception. They will mean that although now a person may not go to an Australian Legal Aid Office and be turned away because he is not an eligible person, because he is not a migrant or a pensioner or a student, it may be that he will be turned away because he is not applying in relation to proceedings under a Federal law. The Attorney-General, wrapped up in legalism, will therefore say. 'Get out of here and go to a State office. ' Of course we on this side think it would be desirable to go to one shop to get all these services, but that will not happen because the Attorney-General knows that this legislation provides for him to give directives in relation to the provision of legal advice in Commonwealth matters. A person could go in and find that in relation to the matter about which he is concerned a completely different standard applies as to whether assistance will be offered. That standard can vary on several bases. It can vary according to the means of the person. That is, we could have separate means tests according to whether someone is categorised as a Federal person or not or whether his clash with the law arises under Federal laws or not. We could also have the directives given in relation to classes of matters. 
One of the things that concerns the Opposition in this matter is that we ought to have equality before the law for all Australians. If someone is affected by a disturbance in his environmental amenity, for instance, because a pipeline is being built somewhere, he should not be concerned about whether it is a pipeline constructed by a gas corporation chartered by the State or a pipeline chartered by this Parliament. He ought to be able to get advice and assistance on the same basis. But this legislation will allow the Attorney-General to give directives which will mean that State commissions may have to apply different standards to the same people in relation to what are substantially the same kinds of proceedings. That is the important thing. 
The honourable member for Parramatta cried crocodile tears about the fact that the Australian Legal Aid Offices were not able to provide a service to everybody. We too deplore that fact, and if the Government had come here today with a piece of legislation which remedied that defect we would be supporting it. But it has not. It has perpetuated the defect and has gone even further because of this mad obsession with Federal persons and with the so-called limitation of Federal power. In the debate in October 1975 the Attorney-General sought to postpone any consideration of legal aid on the basis that a High Court challenge had been mounted. The Attorney-General knows very well that that challenge was mounted because of the fiat of a Tory 
Attorney-General in Victoria. It was being sustained by the proxies of the Opposition at that time in the Parliament, and for that purpose he was seeking to postpone the granting of legal assistance to Australian citizens. What a shabby piece of argument that was. The AttorneyGeneral, who was then just the honourable member for Wentworth, went on to say that of course a Federal Parliament which passes laws creating rights, duties and obligations, has a real consideration in relation to those citizens who are enforcing those rights. What a curious limitation. What a narrow view about the way in which we ought to provide funds from this Parliament. Before 1973 no attempt was made to provide fair legal aid services throughout Australia. 
I want to talk about the limited objectives of the Attorney-General and the extent to which they are effected in this piece of legislation. If one looks at it, all it does in relation to the provision of legal aid services is establish a Federal Commission which can make recommendations for grants of money to State commissions. It does not go beyond that, and to that extent I believe that the second reading speech of the AttorneyGeneral thoroughly misrepresents the whole scheme of legal aid in Australia, especially the stage it has reached in terms of his agreement with the States. The Attorney-General said that there will be formal agreements between the Federal Government and the State governments in relation to the provision of legal aid. Why are the elements of those agreements not included in this legislation? When the Labor Government introduced the Medibank legislation, when it decided to provide free hospital services throughout Australia, it introduced into the Health Insurance Act a schedule of heads of agreement which had to be included by the Government in the agreements it concluded with the States. On this occasion, if the Attorney-General and the Government were genuine in suggesting to us the elements that they want to see included in these agreements, they would include them here in this Bill as a schedule so that the Parliament could pass judgment upon whether all the elements which ought to be included in these kinds of arrangements had been addressed. But we do not have that at all. What we have is a piece of legislation establishing a commission which can fund State legal aid commissions. It cannot even make recommendations in relation to the provision of financial assistance to any other legal aid bodies, notwithstanding its power to make reports on such services. 
We must remember the prospective element which the Government insists it will include because at every stage of this speech, the AttorneyGeneral is dealing with agreements that have yet to be concluded. Even m respect of Western Australia and South Australia he concedes that there are amendments thought to be desirable by the Government which he wishes to put to those States. We are buying a pig in a poke. The agreements have not been made with the States and there is no agreed way of providing legal aid services throughout Australia at the moment. The Attorney-General would do very well to own up to that fact. 
One of the basic elements of the provision of legal aid introduced through the Australian Legal Aid Office in 1973 was that salaried lawyers had a role to play in the provision of that aid. On the part of the Government that was a substantial new commitment which has never been undertaken in several States. All we have now is the Attorney-General's undertaking that he will conclude satisfactory arrangements with the several States. There is nothing whatever in this Bill which provides for that. In the Health Insurance Bill the Parliament laid down the rules by which the Government had to abide in concluding agreements with the States. In this Bill we do not do that, and when the AttorneyGeneral now assures us that he is impressed with the necessity for the provisions of legal aid through salaried officers I wonder how sincere he is. I believe his more genuine feelings might have outed in his speech in October 1975 when he sought to stigmatise salaried officers as bureaucrats. He talked about bureacuratising the provision of legal aid. That is an emotive word. It represents that Public Service bashing mentality which is so shallow. 
At that time the Attorney-General tried to raise a couple of points about the provision of legal aid through salaried officers that caused him concern. He said that he was concerned about the independence of the profession. However, there are no guarantees in this legislation about the independence of the profession or about the way in which State commissions have to be organised. There is nothing whatever about those matters in this Bill. The record of State governments in relation to authority, I believe, has been extremely bad. Imagine a Queensland government agreeing to establish a genuinely independent legal aid commission whose officers would go out fearlessly and, where necessary, on behalf of their clients challenge the actions of that government. I wonder whether we will ever see anything of that sort established under agreements which the Attorney-General tells us he proposes to conclude but which are not referred to in this legislation. 
The Attorney-General finally deals with a subject that also is of concern to the employees of the Department for which he is responsible, and that is their career prospects. It may be easy for the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  to talk about the 'small loss of career opportunity'. Perhaps the distribution commissioners will ensure that he has his career opportunities kept open to him; I do not know. But I think that his was a very cavalier way in which to talk about the career prospects of any Federal civil servant. The undertakings of the Attorney-General in this regard are not given effect to in this legislation. All the legislation gives him authority to do is to preserve officers' rights declarations. In relation to career prospects the Attorney-General merely says that he will try to conclude arrangements with the States on these questions. Professor Sackville had something to say about career services on page 38 of his report on law and poverty in Australia. He said: 
A further threat to independence is created if service in a salaried legal aid office is a stepping-stone to promotion in other departments of government. Steps must be taken to guard against such a possibility, which would create grave doubts about the ability of the salaried service to resist the intrusions of government into the lives of the poor. 
That was the feeling of Professor Sackville. It may well be that certain salaried lawyers in the Australian Legal Aid Office will want to keep open the prospect of going to other branches of the Attorney-General's Department or to other legally oriented jobs in the Australian Public Service, but I believe that the overwhelming concern of most of these people is their ability to maintain an effective nation-wide legal aid service. We can identify different categories of matters that are always dealt with by legal aid officers. Family law is clearly one. People develop expertise in family law. 
There is the suggestion that a person who might by reason of experience or special expertise have qualified for promotion, might be denied it because in the earlier part of his career he was located in a small State such as Tasmania or Western Australia where a senior position was not available, where the abilities of this person to continue to provide legal aid for his clients were not able to grow as they ought to grow. Other examples fall to mind. Clearly migrants are people who are of special concern to the Federal Government and who for obvious reasons are unfamiliar and ill at ease in going into a solicitor's office. Very few solicitors are from the same kind of background. Very few solicitors speak their language. Special skills developed in relation to languages and knowledge of cultural backgrounds ought to be freely translatable. If a person has had experience in working in, say, Greek or Italian communities in Melbourne why should not that person go to assist a national legal aid service in Sydney or Brisbane or one of the other big cities where a similar client group can be identified? The same kinds of considerations arise in relation to pensioners and other social security matters. At the moment, of course, there are no rights possessed by anybody but the hope is that this Parliament eventually will create rights for social security beneficiaries and if that does happen the enforcement of those rights will become a special area of law. 

-But they do not exist at the moment. 
-We created social security appeals tribunals but this Government has done nothing except take technical points on that also. Special client groups can be identified throughout Australia and the ability of lawyers in a national service to work with them and for them ought to be enhanced. That will not be possible under this Bill. It is very unlikely that it will be possible under the arrangements which the Attorney-General tells us he is going to try to conclude. We will wait and see. I tend to doubt it. 
When one goes beyond the ability of these people simply to service clients there is another good reason for establishing a national service, and that is the pooling of experience that would come with these people. The provision of legal aid goes beyond dealing with the individual cases of clients. It also gives a window on to an area of law which is not served by the large influential law firms in the country, which is not seen to any great extent by the eminent counsel in the country. To the extent that it could bring that expertise to bear it could create pressure for reform in those areas. Why should we go back to this crazy system of insisting that if some reforms are necessary in the area of bail law for indigent people and in the area of tenant law for poor people we ought to go on a one-off basis looking at the question differently in each of the 6 States? What absolute nonsense. For all these reasons the Opposition will be opposing this Bill. The prospect of persons going into a one-stop legal centre is attractive, but when they get there they will find that according to who they are and what their concern is they will be dealt with under different rules. That is a fundamental flaw in this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board appoint a committee to prepare and furnish to him a written report nominating persons considered suitable for appointment as Secretary to the Department of Productivity? 
If so, who were the members of the committee and did its report contain the Chairmen's name as a person considered suitable for that appointment? 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board prepare and furnish to him a written report nominating persons considered suitable for appointment as Secretary to the Department of Productivity. 
If so, did the report contain the Chairman's name as a person considered suitable for the appointment. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) When will he acknowledge receipt of my letter to him of 2 December 1976 seeking an explanation of the term conditionality'. 
) When will he answer that letter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
What is the meaning of the term 'conditionality'  (Hansard,  1 December 1976, page 3022). 
In which authoritative commentaries and texts of international financing is this term used. 
The matters raised this evening by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  are of a most serious nature. Both honourable members have pointed to a scenario which has been vaguely sketched in the newspapers over the past several weeks. Today we saw the style of government of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at last bearing fruit.  His  style of government is to destroy persons, when it suits him, by the use of proxies. On this occasion it has been a Press secretary in his employ. It does not matter who the person concerned is. Reference was made earlier today in this House to the use of proxies, to sustained action and to harassment of Opposition members by supporters of the Government parties. Particular reference was made to the role of  Mr David  Rofe, Q.C. What I have to say in no way reflects on  Mr Rofe  or the fact that at this very moment he is a candidate in local government elections in New South Wales, standing against the Australian Labor Party. I do not think for one moment that that would affect his motives in the conduct of any of these proceedings. 
It is not an unusual tactic for the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party of Australia to be involved in these kinds of affairs. Not many years ago there was an incident in New South Wales which many honourable members may remember and in which a presiding officer of the Legislative Assembly was harassed by a private prosecution on information laid by a woman whose legal aid was provided gratis by the Liberal Party of New South Wales. The solicitor who harassed this man was subsequently struck off the roll for dishonourable conduct. His fees were picked up by the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party. This was a deliberately organised campaign of harassment which again directly affected the health of the man who, the magistrate held, had no charge whatsoever to answer and was never sent for trial. This is a usual tactic of the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party. 
Again in New South Wales, the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party saw to it that prosecutions were instituted against two prominent members of the Australian Labor Party, one of whom was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly. When the magistrate discovered that there was no case to answer and refused to commit both persons for trial the State Attorney-General- a tory- through a proxy, because he was too cowardly to do it himself, directed that an ex officio indictment be laid against this person. That was dismissed too. This is a tactic of harassment in which the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party has a very real record of involvement. The use of proxies and agents, of persons as ciphers, to do its dirty work is no new business for this Government. On this occasion it has been the use of a Press secretary to drop it on an Attorney-General who has become an embarrassment because of a mad obsession to pursue matters which he prejudged two and a half years ago. 
-The word 'mad' does not necessarily mean insane. The former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  went to some lengths today to justify his behaviour. The delay in communicating to the defendants in the Sankey proceedings the decision of the Governent to pick up their legal costs and the effect that had on the course of those proceedings was reprehensible. The former Attorney-General stands condemned. No one on this side of the House seeks to defend his character or his conduct. But what is apparent is that when it suits the Prime Minister to drop someone, rather than make a firm Cabinet decision and have the Attorney-General say: 'I disagree with that. I will not accept direction on this question. I resign ', he will go through surrogates to achieve the same purpose. 
There are a few lawyers on the other side of the chamber who might be aware that in Britain in the 1920s when  Sir Patrick  Hastings was faced with this same decision it brought about the downfall of the Government in question. It is very likely we are now seeing on this key issue the crumbling of this Government. On that occasion we did not have an Attorney-General who came once, twice or three times to say that he resigned; we had an Attorney-General who needed to go to the government only once. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  One of the peculiar features of this debate has been the absolute certainty with which every Government supporter has made his contribution. I find that, on an issue such as the development of uranium, truly extraordinary. It was, I suppose, the issue which precipitated the resignation of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  from the Liberal Party of Australia. It should nave been expected that there would be persons in the Liberal Party and in the National Country Party of Australia who had reservations about the decision to develop uranium at this time. Beyond that, certainly there could have been expected to be differences of opinion about the economic value of the decision to Australia and the rest of the world. But all we see coming from them is this extraordinary example of unanimity. I find that quite remarkable. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  set up a couple of hypotheses and then proceeded to knock them over. They were quite false hypotheses. As he knows very well, they were not supported by all honourable members on this side of the House. On this side of the House there are differing views about the economic value of uranium development to Australia, to the world. What we have unanimity on is the question about the precipitate decision at this time to renew mining and export of uranium from Australia. That is completely different from what the honourable member for Lilley said. 
If the honourable member will bear with me for a moment and if he addresses himself to the terms of the amendment against which he spoke so vociferously, he will see that none of the propositions about which he spoke are dealt with in the terms of the amendment. Three elements of the amendment are concerned with safeguards. The last element is concerned with Aboriginal lands and national parks. It is quite apparent in this debate that there is a fundamental disagreement between the Government and the Opposition on the question of safeguards. We would have a much better and productive debate in this House if at least some honourable members opposite would concede that that is a genuinely held belief and that persons on this side of the House are not acting as some kinds of stooges and that in the present state of the knowlede that we have of the potentials of uranium development they are convinced that it is too early yet to mine and export this material. 
Certainly that view is consistent with a considerable body of expert opinion. The question of uranium development is a great area for persons to go shopping for an opinion that suits them. Everybody will find one to his taste. It is precisely because of this very grey area of agreement that I have no difficulty in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his address to the nation on 28 August, talking about the question of waste disposal, said: 
Let me emphasise as forcefully as I can that here the scientific knowledge does exist. The technology does exist. The scientific knowledge and technology have been applied to the problem of waste. The technology is known. It has worked on a trial basis, and plans are now under way to adopt it on a much larger scale. 
Notice the phrase 'it has worked on a trial basis'. That is as far as the Prime Minister was prepared to assert. It is extraordinary to see the materials used in this very slickly put together kit that the Government was able to produce overnight and to foist on the Australian public at the bargain price of $1 when most government publications of that kind cost a good deal more than that. The background paper titled 'Health and Safety Aspects of Nuclear Power Generation' which was published with the documents outlining the Government's decisions quotes from the British Royal Commission on Environmental Pollutionthe Flowers Commission. It deals particularly with this issue of nuclear waste disposal and contains the terse sentence: 
We are confident that an acceptable solution will be found. 
But why did this background paper which was published by the Government omit the crucial finding of the Flowers Commission, which appears in paragraph 4 of that Commission's report? It states: 
We have described in Chapter VIII the problems associated with the management and disposal of highly radioactive wastes arising from the nuclear fuel cycle. Such waste will remain active over immense time scales, and unless continuously isolated will present dangers to our descendants long after nuclear fission technology has ceased to be used as a source of energy. We believe that a quite inadequate effort has been devoted to the problems of longterm waste management, and that there should be no substantial expansion of nuclear power until the feasibility of a method of safe disposal of high level wastes for the indefinite future has been established beyond reasonable doubt. 
But here is the clincher: 
There are promising ideas for the disposal of these wastes, but it may take 10 to 20 years to establish their feasibility. 
That is taken from the report of the Flowers Commission in the United Kingdom, from which the Government chose to quote selectively. It omitted one of the most crucial findings of that Commission. We see that technology does not exist, at least in a feasible form, at this stage. The first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry also dealt with this question. On page 110 it states: 
There is at present no generally accepted means by which high level waste can be permanently isolated from the environment and remain safe for very long periods. Processes for the conversion of high level waste to a relatively inert solid are being developed. Permanent disposal of high-level solid wastes in stable geological formations is regarded as the most likely solution, but has yet to be demonstrated as feasible. It is not certain that such methods and disposal sites will entirely prevent radioactive releases following disturbances caused by natural processes or human activity. 
The question is not free from doubt. I should have thought that in those circumstances most prudent people would delay at this time a decision for which we can see no good reason. The honourable member for Lilley, who spoke before me, and who is something of an expert on economics- certainly he interests himself consistently in this House with economic issues- set up the whole question of markets and demands around the world for uranium. But he is out of date. The requirements for uranium as a source of energy are changing very rapidly. They are changing all around the world in the markets which the Government claims are crying out for Australian uranium. 
I noticed an excerpt today from a German newspaper called the  German Tribune,  which is a weekly review of the German Press and which is distributed by the German Embassy. An item from the  Nordwest Zeitung  dated 10 August- as recent as that- carries an account of movement within the coalition parties in Germany on this very question of nuclear energy. The article concludes by referring to the FDP which is one of the coalition parties. It states: 
The FDP main federal committee decided several weeks ago that building permission for atomic power stations should be refused until permission had been granted for the first stage of building for an atomic waste re-processing plant. 
They are taking stock of this in Germany, which is one of the largest markets that the Government constantly claims is crying out for Australian uranium. Let us be in no doubt about this. As is clearly shown in the terms of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, the Opposition opposes the Government's precipitous decisions on this issue, principally on the questions of safeguards from consumer countries, nuclear weapon proliferation and waste disposal. They are the main reasons. If those reasons provide any doubt as to the wisdom of this decision, we have to examine very closely the reasons for the Government now moving ahead and its unwillingness to postpone a decision to develop uranium in Australia until such time as the technology is proved and until the processes have become feasible. 
When we look at the reasons that the Government constantly puts forward as being necessary to get on with making this decision now in relation to the markets and the demands, we see that these are changing very rapidly indeed. They are changing in ways that the Government is not bringing to the attention of the Australian people. 
The honourable member for Lilley went on from talking about the requirements for nuclear energy in the developed industrial world to refer to the so-called Third World. He said again that Australia could not afford to stand aside as a selfish uranium province unwilling to share with the rest of the world this vital resource that would so raise their living standards. That seems to me to be quite apart from all the irrelevant rubbish he put forward in claiming that members of the Labor Party were anti-development or pro-zero population growth. That is quite incorrect. 
One of the newspapers which did at least pick up this very smartly on the day after the Government's decisions were announced was the  Canberra Times.  In its leading article on 26 August, the day after the Government's decisions were announced, it dealt very clearly with this question in relation to the Third World, the developing nations and their supposed requirement of Australian uranium. The newspaper stated: 
The assumption that the rich countries' consumption of energy must continue to increase  expontentially  is belatedly being questioned. The relevant question should be: growth for what? For the wasteful use of resources in the packaging industries? So that we remain hooked to technologies that are too highly centralised or which we are unable to control? Because we cannot face the need to do without some of our innumerable energy-consuming gadgets? 
The argument then that nuclear power is necessary because the poor need energy for lighting, heating, industrial uses and transport looks like a balm to uneasy consciences when it is realised that nuclear power cannot serve vast and scattered rural populations because the prior demands of privileged elites and of urban skilled work forces in poor countries are locked into the existing political power systems. Small-scale, decentralised technologies that can be controlled by the people who use them and which are the maximum they will be able to afford for a long time is what the stagnant rural masses of India, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nigeria and many other countries need. It is likely, on the other hand, that Australia will have at its disposal as a result of its revenue from uranium more funds to spend on development aid . . . 
That last reasoning is not the sort of reasoning that the Government is adopting. It is putting forward the proposition that the poorer countries are crying out for Australian uranium so that they can develop their standards of living. That is nonsense. Anybody who reads consistently foreign magazines about energy questions and about questions of market demand will know that the position is as described by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  namely, that there is no great demand for Australian uranium at the moment in these developed countries. In relation to developing countries it seems to me that it is not required at all. 
Uranium and nuclear energy mean nothing to developing countries. Current plans show that they expect to get less than 10 per cent of their energy needs from nuclear energy this century. Nuclear energy is high cost energy. It relates to the high energy use patterns of developed countries. The real way ahead for all countries is to use existing fossil fuels, such as coal, of which we have plenty in Australia, and to research as hard and as fast as we can on new forms of energy, including solar energy. Solar energy would be an ideal form of energy, quite obviously, for developing countries. 
Let us make no mistake about the fact that the Government's decision is quite precipitate. Safeguards have not been established in relation to those things itemised in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. The amendment deserves the support of the House. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Why was there no proper and adequate consultation with the Victorian Government before the Federal Government unilaterally altered the cost sharing arrangements with that State in relation to the hospital development program and the community health and school dental programs? 
My grievance relates also to the matter raised by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  The honourable member for Melbourne has dealt in great detail with the persecution of Ignazio Salemi by the Government at the behest of others. He has pointed out the work that  Mr Salemi  has been doing for Italian migrants and Australia and the way in which he has been unmercifully hounded. I shall add to that by pointing out the quite unsatisfactory legislative framework within which  Mr Salemi  has had to work and also detail the actions of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the omissions and lack of action by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  consequent upon the report of the Ombudsman in this matter. 
The interest of the honourable member for Melbourne in matters relating to deportation and the rights of migrants in Australia is not new. In fact, last year when the Ombudsman Bill first came on for debate in the Budget sittings the honourable member referred extensively to the power of deportation and to the rights of migrants under the proposed legislation. In particular, he drew attention to the report of the Bland Committee on Administrative Discretions about the attitude of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to the rights of migrants in Australia. I think he summed up the situation then by saying that the Bland Committee concluded that there was strong departmental opposition to a system of appeals for persons who are not already permanently resident in Australia. That seems to me to be a fair summary of the Department's position. It reflects the entrenched conservatism in the Department about which the Minister has done nothing. 
In responding to the concern expressed by the honourable member for Melbourne, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who was then the Attorney-General, was at pains to put the House at ease about the exercise of ministerial discretion under the Migration Act. The Attorney-General, as he then was, pointed out that when the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was absent from Australia he acted as 
Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. He knew something about the portfolio and said that the Minister had interested himself personally in the signing of deportation orders and did not feel in any way constrained to act upon the advice of his officials. The Attorney-General went on to draw a distinction between so-called policy decisions and administrative decisions. He said that in the area of administrative decisions the decisions of a Minister would be subject to review under the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. He should have known that that was wrong. It is wrong. It arises in relation to section 14 of the Migration Act. It does not arise in relation to section 18 under which the Minister has acted to deport Ignazio Salemi. 
The then Attorney-General in his usual blithe manner concluded that the discretions of Ministers have always been subject to judicial review under prerogative writs. That too is wrong. If the then Attorney-General needed to be told that in any certain terms, he has been told it on two occasions this year by the High Court. In particular, he has been told it by his old chum, the Chief Justice of Australia. Earlier, in a matter brought by  Mr Salemi  himself, the Chief Justice reached that conclusion. More strongly, he reached the same conclusion subsequently in a case involving two Fijian nurses who had also sought an order against the Minister to stop their deportation. In that case the Chief Justice said he expressed the view in the case of  Mr Salemi  that the power to order deportation under section 18 is not qualified by the necessity to afford a prohibited immigrant natural justice. Every other judge in the High Court agreed with that view. If a Minister has a power that does not have to be exercised subject to considerations of natural justice it is a particularly grave power. We ought to hope that the Minister weighs very carefully all considerations before he exercises it. 
I turn to the advice that the Minister has received from his Department and to the attitude of the Ombudsman to that advice. The Ombudsman was appointed this year. Professor Jack Richardson was appointed without the position being advertised. He is a man of known, strong partisan attachment to the coalition parties who has, at least since the time of the double dissolution in 1974 and the subsequent Joint Sitting, interested himself actively in counselling and advising the coalition parties. Nonetheless, he is an experienced teacher of administrative and constitutional law. He had the advantage of teaching me those subjects. 
Let us look at what the Ombudsman said in relation to this very important matter of the deportation of  Mr Ignazio  Salemi. This matter has caused enormous concern amongst the Italian community, not simply in Melbourne but right throughout Australia because of the very selective way not only the Minister but also his departmental officials appear to have acted. We all know that ministerial discretions are not subject to review under the Ombudsman legislation. But the Ombudsman said that that did not preclude him from looking at the administrative decisions reached by officers of the Minister's Department. The Ombudsman described in great detail what he thought an amnesty was and the grave consequences that flowed from it. He said: 
A grant of amnesty is a positive and exceptional act of executive government giving rise to expectations of paramount importance to the classes of persons to whom it may extend. It is not to be expected, therefore, in the case of doubt, that the language in which the amnesty is expressed should be interpreted narrowly or technically to the disadvantage of persons who could reasonably understand it to apply to them. 
He said it is not to be interpreted narrowly or technically. Honourable members should bear in mind what are the powers of the Minister. In the Fijian nurses' case the Chief Justice said that where a person was a prohibited immigrant the Minister had no discretion under section 18, he had to deport. He said that his discretion related to the cancelling of temporary entry permits and the question whether, therefore, persons were prohibited immigrants. Whether a person is a prohibited immigrant is a question of objective fact. It is something a court will look at. A court can look at only the way in which the Minister has dealt with the question of entry permits. 
It is on the record in the Ombudsman's report that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has changed its position on this matter. It changed it after the honourable member for Melbourne made representations in May 1976. The Ombudsman refers to that particularly, that the initial advice given to the Minister was wrong and that in fact whilst  Mr Ignazio  Salemi may have come on a visitor's visa and have subsequently been given a temporary resident permit that was the position it adopted after May 1976 and after  Mr Salemi  had first made his application to remain in Australia. 
We ought to look at the conclusion reached by the Ombudsman. From reading the report of this case it is obvious that the Ombudsman has given very thorough consideration to the matter. He has called before him officers of the Department. He has not been put off by the fact that the Minister has signed the deportation order. He has gone on to draw very clear conclusions about this matter.  His  summary is this: that a person, overstayed after first entering Australia pursuant to a temporary entry permit and a visitor's visa, and later obtaining a further temporary entry permit and being issued with a temporary resident visa, would have a reasonable expectation that the amnesty would be extended to him subject to compliance with the requirements of good health and character. That is the conclusion the Ombudsman reached, yet at every turn the Minister and his departmental officials have sought to hide behind technical details about the fact that  Mr Salemi  's status was changed from that of a visitor to that of a temporary resident after he entered Australia and that, as a temporary resident, he was therefore not eligible for the amnesty. The Ombudsman thought otherwise and he said that section 15(1) (a) (ii) of the Act applied. He did not say what that was. That section reads 'that the action was unreasonable, unjust, oppressive or improperly discriminatory'. That is the conclusion reached by the Ombudsman in relation to the advice tended to the Minister. The Minister has remained curiously silent about the actions of his officials and about his proposed action in relation to this important report of the Ombudsman. 
What a curious debate this Budget debate has been. I am delighted to follow the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  Recently I had the good fortune to speak to an erstwhile professional colleague of his in the stockbroking business, a person who in 1975 worried about the future of the securities industry, who had been an enthusiastic backer of the coalition parties and who had campaigned very strenuously and had contributed to the best of his financial ability to the overthrow of the Labor Government. I asked him how he was going and whether his prospects had improved in the intervening period, particularly since the introduction of the first Lynch Budget last year, and what they looked like on the eve of the Budget this year. He said that they have improved tremendously; that whereas in 1976 he had been without a job, in 1977 he had a job as a cab driver on the midnight to 6 a.m. shift. That is what happened to one of the colleagues of the honourable member for Macarthur. It is a true story. This man knows that the economy is not in good shape. Who are Government members kidding in this business? The problem is that in 1 975 they completely oversold themselves. They oversold their colleagues who came in on silly slogans such as 'Turn on the lights'. They had the idea that at a stroke they could turn around an economy, as an island, regardless of what was happening in the rest of the world and regardless of the structures then existing in the Australian economy. A lot of nonsense has been talked about the monetary policy not working because the Government does not control wage policy as there is an arbitration commission. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission did not spring into existence on 13 December 1975. The system has been in existence for 73 years. The Commission existed between 1972 and 1975. 
These purist Friedmanites want to talk about their crackpot theories. No one overseas will pay them any heed if they whinge about not being able to control wage policy, because no Friedmanite overseas wants to control wages. 
Let us get it perfectly straight. The Labor Government was not the profligate government it was painted. There was an argument within the Government and between the Government and the Opposition about the share of resources between the public and private sectors. There always will be. The Labor Party will always push hardest to change the existing profiles because we believe that this society is unjust, and we want to change it. There is nothing peculiar about that. There is nothing in that which ought to alarm anybody. That has been history. 
It is absurd to say that we printed money and that we did not cut back expenditure. Of course we did. What we did- Budget time is a time to examine this- was to look at priorities. We should look at where this Government has cut expenditure and where it has given away revenue. It has given it away in a very sectional manner. It has given it away for no good economic reasons. In the financial year 1977-78 the promises made so blithely in 1976 are having to be redeemed. We are faced with the madly generous investment allowances, with the doing away of the coal export levy and with stock depreciation provisions which are unnecessarily generous and which serve no economic usefulness in the existing climate. Last year we were told that these things were the salvation of the Australian economy and that this year things would start again. 
Now, in Budget No. 2 of the Fraser Government, with the prospect of a third if the Government is prepared to risk a half Senate election, we are told that three years is not long enough. That has not changed either. At the most there has only been three years for an Australian Government. So who is the Government kidding? Economic debate goes on throughout the year. It goes on in relation to wages policy. It goes on in relation to monetary policy. The Budget is only part of it. For Government members to suggest in the House that this Budget will have a major impact on the economy is nonsense. They say that they are concerned about deficits. They can reduce the deficit by not giving up that revenue to which I referred. But they give it up, and I believe for no good economic reason. 
Today we heard of the massive capital outflows from Australia. I do not welcome that. No one on this side does. That kind of situation is allowed to occur because the present Government has undermined the institutions that it is able to call on to shore up the Australian dollar. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  placed himself in the absurd position of pouring scorn on the notion of international borrowings. It was during the 
Labor Party's time in power that on the New York securities and capital markets Australia became for the first time a triple A rated borrower. That is a strength on which we could have drawn and on which we are now drawing. The Treasurer who so scorned borrowing was forced last year, early this year and is forced now to borrow on international capital markets. How has the Government done it? Some of the more recent borrowings may be unexceptionable, but prior to that they were at unnecessarily high interest rates, expecially in the Swiss franc market, because of the way in which the Government chose to approach those markets. 
This Government is not a team of experts. It has bungled and bumbled at every turn. Last May we were told that a wage-price freeze was to be our salvation. Now we hear nothing about it. We heard nothing in the week preceding its proposed introduction. During the following fortnight we were led to believe that the future of Australia depended on this half baked crackpot idea being implemented. This Government has been on a consistent course since it came to power. In May 1976 it looked at the appropriations passed by the coalition parties in the Senate. It looked at those appropriations and determined to cut them to the bone, to limit every type of expenditure. It did not do so for economic reasons. It did so for purely ideological reasons -to cut back on the expansion of opportunity in Australia. 
In the Budget last year the pattern was continued, and it has been continued quite predictably in this Budget. No one need be surprised. The Tory parties do not pretend that they believe in the provision of community services. On the eve of an election they come out with the idea of tax cuts. We just heard the most pathetic defence of them by the honourable member for Macarthur, a man who knows better, a man who can understand and a man who, unlike the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  is able to read 100 pages in a report and get to the next sentence. If the Treasurer and the Prime Minister cannot agree on the cost of the tax cuts, is it any wonder that the Australian community is confused? The Australian people are not confused about their real cash incomes each week. The fact is that any taxpayer with dependants is worse off as a result of the removal of a rebate for dependant children and the substitution of rates of child endowment which are unindexed. Quite clearly, that person is demonstrably worse off. Intelligent self-interest is not going to allow persons on low or middle incomes to permit the Government to get away with this deception, just as people in the Australian community still have a conscience and will not allow the Government to get away with its proposed scheme for the payment of unemployment benefit. 
Debate interrupted. 
-At the outset I ought to make it clear that the Opposition is not opposing these Bills; that might just account for the puzzlement of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  over the detached way in which the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  dealt with them. I thought that both of their contributions were very helpful and very useful. I want to come back to them as I develop my remarks. My remarks may stray from giving the impression that we are not opposing the Bills because  some of the  things I have to say will be quite critical of the Government. 
The first thing to do is to put aside any notion that a grand new era in nursing home benefits is being introduced by this legislation. In fact, to adopt the terminology of the report of the Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm, known as the Holmes report, the legislation does two things. First, it fuses the basic and additional rates of benefit and secondly it integrates the system of benefit payments into the health insurance arrangements for hospital care. That quite simply is what it does. It does not introduce any great new era in nursing home care nor particularly in the payment by the Government of nursing home benefits. 
I believe that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  accurately set out the purpose of the legislation in fixing the new rates of benefit payable in each of the several States. The Minister for Health said:  the benefit levels have been determined so that the benefits, together with the statutory minimum patient contribution . . . cover fully the fees charged to 70 per cent of the patients in non-government National Health Act nursing homes in each State. 
Having regard to the reservations that the honourable member for Prospect expressed about the statistical accuracy of figures available to the Minister's Department, I suppose we would have to accept that the figures set out in the proposed new section  47  of the National Health Act serve that purpose. The Minister went on to say: 
The benefit levels will be reviewed annually . . . 
It is on that particular point that I wish to take issue with him, as did the honourable member for Prospect. If honourable members look at this legislation, they will see that there is no provision whatsoever for annual review. It merely contains provision for the Minister for Health to prescribe by regulation a different rate than that set out in the proposed new section  47.  Admittedly it would be a higher rate. There is no requirement as to how often that determination must be made and nothing is set out about the kinds of considerations that the Minister has to take into account. We merely have as a statement of Government policy at this time that the level will be struck to cover  70  per cent of patients in nursing homes. It seems to me that it would not have been beyond the wit of the Government and the Parliamentary Counsel to devise a statutory formula which could be set out in this legislation which would allow us at least to achieve that modest objective of an annual review to strike a fee which could meet that objective. However, it is not in the Bill. 
Again, I realise that there are statistical problems, but if the Minister can come into this Parliament and assert that this level of fee will achieve the objective he proclaims, it ought to be possible to set out, with a reasonable degree of precision, a direction in the legislation to the Director-General of Health to come up with that formula at annual intervals. What needs to be emphasised again, as it has been by honourable members on this side, is that in fact the mere setting of annual rates will not solve the problem of payment for nursing home care throughout Australia. The basic objective of the Government remains as it was  4Vi  years ago. Despite four increases in rates the rates get progressively out of kilter. That will happen in Australia very quickly. We can firmly predict that it will happen in respect of every increase in the national wage level; yet the Government seems to ignore the impact of that on nursing home costs. 
I have the most reservations about the next item dealt with in this exercise and that is what the Government calls the so-called logical extension into the private health insurance system for the payment of nursing home benefits. To me it does not seem that it is necessarily logical at all. It is in this area in particular that confusion has arisen amongst the constituents of every honourable member in this House. It was amusing to those of us on the Opposition side to hear the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  decrying the lobbying efforts of private health insurance funds. We on this side of the House know something about those activities. We look forward to reading the Christmas cards from the general managers of those funds this year when no doubt they will talk about the terrible tussles that they have had this year with the LiberalNational Country Party Government. 
I was delighted to hear the honourable member for Petrie support this legislation so enthusiastically, in relation to both nursing home benefits and pathology services. I hope that he does not have the same reservations as were expressed by his colleague  Senator Sheil  from Queensland who, having voted in the Senate some months ago, for the pathology legislation, turned round and participated in a suit to try to destroy that legislation. Government supporters might look at this legislation to see whether in fact they can support it because we do not want them changing their minds afterwards at the behest of the private health funds. 
One of the points in relation to the Government's integration of the payment of basic and additional rates into the health insurance system is that the cost of this for so-called insured patients will now have to be met by registered benefits organisations. I think it is important to remark that that was not the only option open to the Government. In fact the Holmes report pointed out very clearly that were the Government to take over the payment of additional benefits for all persons it would be a relatively small cost. Whilst it might be logically very nice for the Government to line everything up so that everything looks neat from the point of view of its health insurance arrangements, we ought to bear in mind that nursing home care is fundamentally different, and serves a quite different purpose in the community, from ordinary hospital care which is covered under the so-called Medibank arrangements. In fact this obsession with logicality may not have been all that necessary. 
The honourable member for Prospect pointed out that so-called insured patients, those who have private health insurance and those who are coming to every honourable member in this House at this time and expressing concern at the increase in the rates which is inevitable in the funds to which they subscribe, are those people who identify themselves as being able to pay for private insurance. They are the very personskely to have private resources, either owned personally or within their family units, that will allow them to meet the gap between the rates and their statutory contribution and the average fee. Where the fee paid is above the average, these people will be in the best position to meet it. Having regard to the fact that fees must increase within the space of a year, is it not likely, as the honourable member for Prospect suggested, that these people will be the very patients admitted to nursing homes? We cannot lame proprietors for that situation. Holmes himself drew attention to the fact that there are a great many nursing homes stuck with bad debts. These people cannot be blamed for choosing the patients who are likely to be the best payers. I wonder whether that really is the fair and equitable system we ought to set up for the payment of benefits for health care in Australia. 
Make no mistake about it; hospital insurance premiums for those covered by private health insurance funds will rise. There is a great deal of confusion in the community already about this matter. It is being promoted by a curious lot of interests. It is being promoted by certain proprietors and by certain funds. The confusion is undeniable and I believe that in some way the Government must be responsible for this. Last year every time the Government set about taking the knife to the National Health Act, the better to impose its rearranged system of health insurance, the people of Australia had very good cause to be alarmed. I believe that we can hardly be surprised that people have been alarmed on this occasion. 
One of the suggestions by nursing home proprietors is that this latest move will force a great many prospective patients of nursing homes out of private health insurance and into the Health Insurance Commission scheme; that is, they will become just levy payers, especially as they advance in age and the prospect of them needing nursing home care becomes greater. If this does happen we have to look at the effect of it. The effect will be that it will place a further strain on the level of general resources necessary to support health insurance payments by the Commission. The major objection that the Opposition party in this House had last year to the Government's dismantling of Medibank was the fact that by creating a dual system one system is left to be supported quite substantially out of general revenue, quite apart from the amount of levy payable. 
If the honourable member for Eden-Monaro shuts up he will be able to hear and then he will understand what I am saying. Already this support is worth about one billion dollars. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

Already one billion dollars worth of support is provided from general revenue for the health insurance arrangements administered by the Health Insurance Commission. A clear strain will be placed on that level of support if more persons - 
-Since the honourable member interjects- and I hope the  Hansard  reporter heard it- I am a levy payer. That this could possibly concern him amazes me. I am talking about my constituents and their concerns. 

 -Mr Speaker, there must be few things more frustrating than to have in one's pocket a speech prepared by the State division of the Liberal Party of South Australia and being unable to attract your eye last week when it would have been appropriate to deliver it. The alternative, I suppose, is to expect that the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  has been doing what  Dr Tonkin  on Sunday last exhorted all good Liberals in South Australia to do; that is, from here on to go forward. Of course, if they go forward in the manner in which they proceeded last Saturday we can expect at the next State elections in South Australia to see their numbers further decimated. That can hardly be surprising. I was amused to hear the honourable member for Kingston quote from what looked like a copy of the telegram that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  sent to all Aboriginal communities a couple of years ago about the policies of the coalition parties on Aboriginal expenditure. 
The issue of staff ceilings is one which has not been resolved in the Australian community and the concern felt at all levels about the effect of staff ceilings on the delivery of public services is very real, as the honorable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said. Let me first deal with a couple of points which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  made. The Munster said that the Australian Labor Party had a view that there was something inherently desirable in a growing Public Service. That is nonsense if he is talking simply about the number of government employees. The Minister then went on to say that we are always interested in employment being in the public sector rather than the private sector. That is not necessarily so, but when it comes to dealing with the problems of the unemployed, with the performance of the Commonwealth Employment Service and organisations like that for which he has ministerial responsibility, naturally we are concerned about their performance and I will come back to that in a moment. 
The Minister struck on the real objection which the Labor Party had to the Government's policy in relation to staff ceilings when he said that the decision taken by the Government in relation to the size of the Public Service was not taken simply for economic reasons. That is perfectly clear. It was taken solely for ideological reasons and the Minister conceded that every Government Minister had a prejudice that the size of the Public Service was, per se, too big and ought to be reduced quite apart from the size of the problems with which it has to deal. This attitude is a reflection of every policy that has come from this Government in the last 18 months. The refusal of the Government to face up to economic facts and the refusal of the Government when determining economic priorities as shown by its strategy on expenditure items to deal with those problems are reflected also in the problems of the Public Service. The Minister went on extensively to tell us that everything was rosy in the garden. One thing one has to remark is that this is in complete contrast to the very real concern expressed by an apparently less influential Minister, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in the Senate last week. On two successive days the Minister was at pains to point out- I do not have to go through every page of  Hansard  and indicate where she did it- ner concern because her Department did not have the manpower resources to deal with the problems with which it was confronted and that continuing demands made upon the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and through the interdepartmental committee, to which the Minister referred, had been refused. That is the fact. 
The facts are not, as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  put it, that somehow the situation is rosy and that, in fact, Government departments are able to meet the problems. The Minister commented blithely that numbers had increased during the past year in the Departments of Social Security and Employment and Industrial Relations. Is that not remarkable! The observation is as fatuous as would be the remark of a Minister who, in 1943, said that in the last four years the numbers of defence personnel had increased rapidly. Of course the numbers have increased rapidly. The situation has changed. It needed to. The Opposition in this debate is saying that staff ceilings have been used unintelligently as an ideological bludgeon by the Government against the Public Service and, therefore, indirectly against the Australian people and their very real needs and expectations. That is our objection to the Government's policy. 
The Australian Labor Party has no objection to intelligent manpower planning in the Public Service. It would support that policy. It would support a government which was developing flexible policies in order to respond in different areas as demands on resouces altered. But that is not what we are faced with here. We are faced with arithmetical figures being imposed across the board without regard to the real demands which are being placed on departments. If honourable members think that this is a view entertained only by the Opposition, they are sadly mistaken. I shall refresh the minds of honourable members by drawing attention to some of the official but non-partisan sources of data which we have on this matter. Recently, the Public Service Board annual report chronicled in a detailed way the history of the Government's imposition of staff ceilings on the Public Service. The Board was at pains to point out that the Government's decision has not been made upon its advice and that, in fact, the ceilings had been imposed in a blanket fashion across the board for ideological purposes. As long ago as January this year when the Board advised that further reductions would be unwise the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in the same month, within a matter of weeks, announced a further reduction in numbers across the board in the Public Service. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations referred to interdepartmental committees. I point out that they do not make policy in this country. If honourable members read the report of the Public Service Board they will see that it makes that very clear. It states: 
The Committee has prepared reports to be used by the Prime Minister in making decisions on staff ceiling matters. 
These decisions are made by the Prime Minister not by a Public Service interdepartmental committee. The Government must accept responsibility for those decisions. 
In relation to these staff ceilings the Public Service Board concluded, after it counselled against the ceilings in January this year in firm tones, that it felt obliged to repeat the counsel in its annual report this year. It stated: 
In current circumstances, it is the Board's view that any further general reductions in staff ceilings would call for corresponding decisions by the Government to forgo functions or reduce standards of service. 
That was the Board's conclusion and that is the conclusion about the short term effects of the Government's decisions. We are not talking about the longer term effects about which the Public Service Board also expressed considerable reservations. These reservations are set out on the same page of the annual report. The Board talks about the effect this policy will have on mobility, on the reluctance of departments to accept transfers from other departments because they will affect the staff ceilings. Therefore the situation attacks the very basis of our integrated Australian Public Service which is designed to ensure a mobility and ability to tap at any time the best available public servant for the job. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations ought not to be too blase about the situation because the subject of single greatest concern to the Australian community at the moment is unemployment. The prospect of people being put back into work relates directly to his ministerial responsibility and particularly to the performance of the Commonwealth Employment Service. Recently we have had two reports on this subject; one was the Norgard report and the other was the Myers report. The Norgard report concludes in very sterile official language its view about the effect of staff ceilings on the performance of the Commonwealth Employment Service. It states: 
The Review- that is the committee- believes the inadequate staff resources have been made available to the CES . . . recruitment has been severely affected by the staff ceilings imposed throughout the Public Service and that the Public Service Board has not given the CES staffing situation any special consideration. Staff shortages in the CES have resulted in a number of vital procedures being either drastically curtailed or, in some instances, omitted completely. For instance, if there is an upsurge of clients seeking employment assistance at an employment office, it is common practice for any officers engaged on vacancy and promotional activities to be recalled to the office to assist with the increased traffic. This is quite wrong; the opposite should apply. As the number of clients increases so should the level of vacancy canvassing if jobs are to be found for the people concerned. 
That is sterile; that is not emotional. Every honourable member knows from his dealings with his constituents about the concern people have over the unemployment situation. They know how distressing it is. I ask honourable members to imagine the distress of counter staff in the Commonwealth Employment Service, in the Department of Social Security, who, because of understaffing, are faced with many more clients than they are able to deal with. Instead of being able to devote 30 minutes to learning of someone's job skills and potentialities they can devote only IS minutes. They are able to place only one out of every four job applicants instead of one out of every two. This is the human face of this Government's ideological bludgeoning of staff ceilings. The Australian people will not tolerate this situation any longer because everybody knows that the Government is prancing like a cat on a hot tin roof. The heat is coming from a fire which the Government lit under the staff ceiling issue. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am delighted to support the comments made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in respect of the matter of public importance which we are discussing. I suppose that first of all I ought to deal with some of the statements made by the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I could not fit his comments into any logical framework so I shall deal with them simply in the order in which he raised them. The first thing the Minister said was that the honourable member for Oxley had done nothing for 15 minutes but produce a ragbag of grizzles and gloom. To the extent that any grizzles and gloom were put to the House by the honourable member for Oxley they were grizzles and gloom expressed by impeccable non-partisan sources, particularly the document from the Reserve 
Bank. That document, we were told by the Acting Treasurer who has ministerial responsibility for the Reserve Bank, is a document to which the Bank attaches no importance. If that is the case I suggest that the Minister immediately should send for the Governor of the Bank and ask him why it is that his officers are wasting their time producing documents to which no importance is attached. Of course importance must be attached to it. The Reserve Bank is at least expert enough a body to ensure that its officers ' time is not being wasted on the production of documents which are not important. 
The Minister talks about the document being based on certain assumptions. He ought to be aware that if one is looking at any economic scenario one makes certain assumptions, and the assumptions upon which this Reserve Bank document were based are the assumptions that are expressed in the Budget Papers, which are available for all to see, and in the constant updating of those forecasts, provided again by the Treasury. The assumptions can be argued with, the assumptions can be argued about, but the Minister has not sought to do that one bit. It struck me that the Minister fell into the trap into which all Government supporters in this House constantly fall, when they talk about 'during the past three years'. They do not mean the past three years of course; they mean from 1972 to 1975. It is a fair example of the way in which not only Government supporters but, inexcusably, Government Ministers seek to run away from their responsibility for the performance of the economy during the past two years that they have been in Government- two of the three years for which they sought office. Now everybody in the community is concerned that the Government is seeking to run away from that responsibility by bringing on an election to distract attention from its miserable performance. 
The Minister sought, as part of the rehearsal of his earlier statements during the Budget debates, to defend the Government's economic performance and to defend its priorities. He gave a couple of quite pathetic examples. He talked about increases in personal income tax during the three years of Labor Government. Immediately I was able to turn to my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  and get from him the Budget Papers. If one looks at the bar chart in Statement No. 6 attached to the Budget Papers one will see that, as a percentage of total Budget receipts, personal income tax is greater now under the Fraser Government than it has ever been. For the first time it has gone over 50 per cent. They are the facts. They are here for everybody to look at. That is the record of the Fraser Government on increases in personal income tax. 
The Minister, in an incredible piece of double think- which never ceases to amaze me, although when I have been here long enough no doubt I will get used to it- talked about increases in postal and telephone charges when Labor was in power and said that that was a deplorable thing. In the very next breath he went on to talk about the importance of containing the size of the deficit and cutting government expenditure. Honourable members can be sure of one thing: The deficit would have increased if those charges had been left at the level at which they were previously. But this is the kind of double think in which Government members and Government supporters in this House engage constantly. Of course, quite predictably, the Minister concluded with a pathetic attack on the honourable member for Oxley. It was a personal attack on his integrity and on his performance in the economic debate during the past couple of months. Let us be in no doubt about it. The Opposition has charged both the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Oxley with the responsibility to go out into the community and to argue about the economic administration of this country. That is their job. It is their responsibility. Anybody opposite who talks about the responsible role of the Opposition ought to know that that is what we are supposed to be about and it is what those gentlemen are supposed to be doing. When they do it they deserve to be applauded. 
Yesterday we had the deplorable situation in which the Government whipped its members to censure the honourable member for Oxley, to divert attention from this matter which was raised yesterday as a matter of public importance. 
-The honourable member for Mitchell says 'Ha! ' He scorns the suggestion that the whip was used. Of course it was used on the proposal that the honourable member for Oxley ought to have an extension of time to defend himself at least one Government member thought that on such an important question, when an honourable member's personal integrity was under attack, he ought to have that right. To his credit, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  supported the Opposition to allow an extension of time. He abstained quite deliberately, as he made clear, from voting on the motion. Other honourable members opposite ought to be ashamed of themselves. If persons are going to come into this House and move motions of censure against individuals and if the Government is going to apply whips on those motions, Government Ministers ought to be prepared to speak in such debates and not to leave it up to the grandstanding individuals on the back benches who are more concerned with examining the impact of the parliamentary retiring allowances scheme on persons who have served one term in the Parliament. 
Honourable members ought to have no doubt about the way in which the economy is talked about. It is talked about not simply by persons in this House, not simply by persons who support the Government parties or the Opposition party; it is discussed by a whole range of institutions and interests outside. Persons who make decisions on the question of exchange rate administration and who make decisions to move capital in or out of Australia are influenced by quite objective factors as they perceive them. That is the fact, and that ought to be the way in which Government Ministers look at the economy- not in the fairyland way in which some Ministers here seem to look at it. Senior Ministers opposite are constantly seeking scapegoats. The Acting Treasurer was at pains to point out that he has not indulged in any speculation about an early election. Indeed I would be prepared to concede that I have not seen any reference to where he has done so. But if he looks at the wording of the matter of public importance he will see that we are talking about the comments of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and senior Ministers. We refer especially to the Prime Minister who has come under very close scrutiny and condemnation consistently by Government supporters for his muddying of the waters on this question. 
I hold here in my hand the editorial of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 29 September which says that the Prime Minister is behaving irresponsibly and that he should now in the interests of good government put to rest any suggestion that, in the present circumstances, there will be an early election at this time. That is the  Sydney Morning Herald.  It is not the Murdoch Press, which Government supporters were able to quote yesterday in condemning the honourable member for Oxley. This newspaper is a member of the organisation which writes editorials in support of the Government parties and which, whenever the next election is held, can be fairly anticipated to do so again. But there ought to be no doubt about only Opposition members raising this concern. It has been raised by a great many Government supporters. The seeking for scapegoats goes on and on. The Arbitration Commission is to be blamed for the poor performance of the economy. It is to be blamed by the same purist monitorists, the same Friedmanites who if they go back to their text books will see that there is no place for such a wage fixing body anyway in the text which they regard as holy writ. The honourable member for Oxley referred to the abuse constantly and quite improperly heaped by the Prime Minister on the heads of the commissioners and associate commissioners of the Industries Assistance Commission for performing the duty with which they are charged by this Parliament to advise the Government, and to do nothing more than that, on the protection of Australian industry. 
If we are to talk about the speculation about an early election being raised by other senior Ministers I can think of no more irresponsible example than that indulged in recently by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  a very senior member of the National Country Party, in his address to that Party in Melbourne the other day when he again fanned the flames of industrial confrontation in this country. It was a theme to which the Prime Minister himself returned with great delight at question time today, not in any endeavour to improve industrial relations in this country but in the hope and the expectation that massive dislocation will occur and will give him the pretext that he wants for an early election and to divert attention from the sad and sorry economic performance of this Government. It wants to have an election on an issue that would be completely irrelevant so that the attention of voters is diverted from the condition of the economy to which this Government has reduced it consistently over the last two years. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Administrative Services I begin by referring to something which affects all Government departments but which arises in the sphere of the Public Service Board. I refer to the new system instituted by the Government for the appointment of permanent heads of departments. Some of the worst rhetoric of the campaign trail of 1975 by coalition party members was reserved for individuals who were unable to respond on their own behalf and who had been appointed permanent heads of government departments. The coalition parties set out then to structure a statutory scheme of stigmatising certain persons appointed as permanent heads as established candidates and others who might be appointed as non-established candidates. Last year the Government introduced legislation to give effect to this new system. It affects the administration of the whole Public Service because it affects the confidence which everybody has in the quality of persons appointed as permanent heads of government departments. There have been several significant changes lately not the least of which have affected the department of the Minister at the table, the Department of the Capital Territory. 
I raised with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  earlier this year the statutory scheme which had been instituted for the appointment of permanent heads and how it might best be monitored by the community at large and especially by members of Parliament. I received the quite incredible response that whilst procedures were laid down in a statute for the way in which committees would be established to nominate persons who were suitable candidates for appointment to these offices, no information would be given to members of Parliament or to the Australian public about whether those procedures had been observed. It is quite incredible that on the one hand we have a government saying: 'The procedures which have existed for 75 years for appointing permanent heads to the Public Service of this country are unsatisfactory. We are going to establish a statutory procedure for the appointment of permanent heads which lays down procedures but then we will give no information about whether those procedures are being observed.' That is the first thing I want to say. 
A couple of other items arise under the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. One of the most significant innovations which attracted a good deal of bipartisan support was the appointment of the Federal Ombudsman. I think honourable members on both sides of the chamber hope that this institution will soon take hold and attract real support in the community. But I am afraid that if the example that the Government has pursued in relation to one of the initial and most important reports of the Ombudsman is any indication of the Government's attitude to this new institution, then it will be rendered nugatory. In the Salemi case the Ombudsman went to great lengths to go behind a supposed ministerial discretion to pursue the administrative decisions which had been made and the advice which had been proffered to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  The Ombudsman reported most unfavourably both on the decisions of the civil servants and, by inference, on the action of the Minister. Yet the Minister came into the House as recently as three or four weeks ago and said that he was not prepared to canvass here the reasons given by the Ombudsman in his report for that decision. We will completely devalue this new and hopefully worthwhile institution if the Government Ministers persist with that kind of attitude. 
In the Senate Estimates Committee proceedings honourable senators were able to establish that the staff given to the Ombudsman would appear to be very meagre at this stage. It is essential in the early stage of any new institution, especially one which has attracted a good deal of bipartisan support, that it get adequate resources to do its job. Otherwise it will fail because it does not have those resources. I do not have the Senate Estimates  Hansard  with me but offhand I think the Ombudsman has at his disposal only about 12 officers for the whole of Australia. They supervise the whole of the administrative decision-making procedures of the Australian Public Service. That seems to me to be inadequate. In this area too I urge the Government to see that this new institution gets the resources it requires. If it gets those resources honourable members on both sides of the House are prepared to see that the reports of the Ombudsman are given the due consideration which they deserve. I hope, expecially in these early days, that Ministers do not force the Ombudsman into exercising his final sanctions of reporting to the Prime Minister and hence to the Parliament about their intransigence in considering the Ombudsman's comments on faults in public administration. I believe that those two points which I picked up tonight- the system of appointing permanent heads and the new institution of the Ombudsman- deal with things which go to the very confidence of the whole of the Australian community in our public administration. 
I suppose that no greater responsibility rests on the Prime Minister than his setting of the scenario for financial relations with other governments in Australia, that is, State governments and local governments. One of the institutions which has been established by the Fraser Government is the Advisory Council for InterGovernment Relations. I think it is fair to say that this is an institution about which the Opposition expressed many reservations when it was given a statutory basis. If we look at what has happened in the year since that body was established we will see that those reservations were soundly based. The appropriations which we are considering here give about the same amount of money to the Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations at the Australian National University as was given to the new Advisory Council. 
I think everybody in the chamber will admit that there are differences of opinion about how services ought to be delivered. We can characterise them quite easily in the Australian tradition as drawing from attitudes which have been traditionally expressed by persons in the Australian Labor Party and in the conservative parties. We will resolve them in the political forum. We cannot de-sex them, as it were, and resolve them in an advisory council. To this extent I think the Premier of Queensland has shown admirable recognition of political fact. It seems to me that if we are concerned to get new information on this subject we would be better off doubling the allocation for the Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations at the Australian National University and doing away altogether with the silly institution which is no more than a cosmetic attempt to pretend that there is some way in which questions can be answered about what level of government delivers what services, what resources, and what revenues which are made available. These are nothing but political decisions which we reach here by dispute and discussion among political parties. 
The other Department we are discussing here this evening is the Department of Administrative Services. I raise two matters which are interrelated to that Department. The first matter relates to the administration of the Australian Electoral Office and particularly the savage attack which was reported yesterday as being made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on the new electoral system and the way in which the proposed electoral redistribution has been carried out by the Distribution Commissioners. The suggestion that in some way the representation involved in great areas, particularly rural districts, needs to be offset by damaging the democratic principle of one man, one vote, one value relates to another responsibility of the Department of Administrative Services, and that is the facilities made available to members of parliament. I cannot emphasise too often that Opposition members will never vote against the provision of adequate services to all members who represent electorates of great physical size. Indeed, we seek to have more government information centres, such as the Northwest One-stop Welfare Centre which is covered in the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet made available in country areas. These are all ways in which we can help with representation difficulties. I think it is quite inappropriate that we should attack the basic democratic principle because of the inconvenience of spending more money to provide adequate representation to people who live in physically remote areas. They are the main points I wanted to make. The Australian National Gallery deserves the support of all of us. I do not agree with everything which the honourable member for Issacs  (Mr Hamer)  has said. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
A debate about security is traditionally a fairly bipartisan debate in the House but,  Mr Acting Speaker,  you will pardon me if I feel freed of any of those constraints after the contributions of both Government supporters. We are considering four basic materials in this debate. First, and by far the most helpful, are the abridged findings and recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope as part of his third report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. Along with that we have the tabling statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of 5 May, his second reading speech on the Office of National Assessments Bill, and the Bill. I draw attention to elements involved in all four and inconsistencies between them. Another matter which attracted my attention was the question of the participants in the debate. 
Like the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I am rather staggered that the Prime Minister did not think this was an important enough matter to involve himself in the debate on the second reading and at the Committee stage. In saying that I in no way reflect on the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Garland)  who is at the table. I would have thought that this is an important subject. I thought the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  leant over backwards to be far too fair in his assessment of the Government's response to  Mr Justice  Hope's findings and recommendations. Nonetheless, this is one of the debates at which we look with more than usual interest at the advisers' benches in order to see some of our intelligence community unmasked. We look too at some of the participants in the debate. We see two Government members blowing their cover. They are two members with defence backgrounds and I assume, therefore, that they have some kind of intelligence background. 
I deal firstly with a couple of the points made by both Government supporters who have participated in the debate. Not unusually, the one who was least able to comprehend what the Bill purported to do was the honourable member for t George  (Mr Neil)  who, when I heard him, talked about his concern that there seemed to be some sort of abandonment of covert action in the collection of intelligence. Concern about those matters misses the whole point of this assessment agency whose purpose is merely to assess intelligence collected by other Government security bodies. The collection of intelligence is no part of the charter of the Office of National Assessments. He then went on to talk in the simplistic terms of the 1950s and the worst part of the 1960s in which he played no small part. He talked about our overseas adversaries. Our best starting point in relation to the security interest in this country is one of the statements made by  Mr Justice  Hope in which he talked about Australia's national security interests. In Part C of his findings and in paragraph 45 he stated: 
Australia's intelligence interests do not, and cannot, coincide with those of any other country. 
That cannot bear repeating too often because in the Parliament and outside it members of the Australian Labor Party have constantly asserted the need for an independent Australian assessment of world situations and have been condemned as unpatriotic and traitors. Yet here is a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, a man commissioned by the Australian Labor Party Government, whose commission has been continued by the Fraser Government, making that assessment as one of his key findings and as one of the assumptions upon which he goes on to make every other finding in his abridged report. He has said that Australia's intelligence interests can never of their essence coincide with those of any other country. I commend to honourable members the statement which appears in paragraph 40 of  Mr Justice  Hope 's abridged report which we have before us. He stated:  it would be naive to imagine that overseas governments will always tell us everything they know about a particular matter. 
That has to be our starting point in relation to the way in which we structure not simply the intelligence collection functions of the Australian Government, but more importantly, also the matter we are discussing here today which is the assessment of that intelligence. 
The honourable member for Isaacs quoted from the report of  Mr Justice  Hope, without attribution, the words of Professor Trevor Roper. He went on to draw the distinction between open and covert intelligence, the usefulness of both and their distinct inter-relationship. No one disputes that for a moment. But we are dealing in this debate with the assessment agency which has been established. 
The honourable member for Isaacs was at pains to criticise the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith for his constant references to the word 'intelligence' but we are talking about intelligence in this debate. In the Bill which establishes the Office of National Assessments the word 'intelligence' is used in sub-clause ( 1 ) (d) of clause 5. That sub-clause deals with international intelligence. But at every other level it talks about information. 
While the Bill attracts no opposition from the Labor Party in this House, to my mind it is somewhat less than adequate in giving effect to  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations. One of  Mr Jusdee  Hope's specific findings- it is a specific finding which the Government felt it ought to make public- is to be found in paragraph 48 of his report. It reads: 
At present, the intelligence assessment process suffers from too great control by the Defence Department and Defence Committee on the one hand, and the Department of Foreign Affairs, on the other. 
That was his finding.  Mr Justice  Hope made no recommendation for the establishment of an agency which had to report to two boards. It is on that point that the Prime Minister once again has been far too coy with the Parliament. In the statement that he made on S May he said that there were variations in the decisions reached by the Government and the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. It would be much more, useful to legislators if the Government went on from that to show us in what respect the decisions varied from those recommendations. But in fact the Government has left it to us all to do it. 
But one does not have to look too far to see that  Mr Justice  Hope's report is a very strong critique of the role played in the intelligence community in Australia over the last couple of decades by the Joint Intelligence Organisation. He went on to suggest the establishment of a new intelligence assessments agency because of the deficiencies that have been shown up in the performance of the JIO. What is the Government's response to that? Is the Government's response to ensure, since it insists on setting out the functions of the Office, that it concerns itself with political, strategic and economic matters of significance to Australia? I think all honourable members would agree that those three matters are inter-related. No, the Government proceeded to constitute quite artificially two boards- the National Assessments Board and the Economic Assessments Board. It proceeded quite artificially to draw a distinction between the kinds of assessments that can be made in the present world situation for Australia. 
Proposed section 6 of the Bill establishes a National Assessments Board. It will be seen that that Board, which is to be dominated by the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Affairs, has to concern itself with matters not primarily involving economic considerations. I suppose, by a process of elimination, that means that it has to concern itself with political and strategic matters. Political and strategic matters go to the essence of economic matters, but now they will be considered by the Economic Assessments Board. An examination of the Bill reveals that the Economic Assessments Board is to be composed of members of the Australian Public Service and an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
The Prime Minister in his second reading speech went on to refer to the sorts of departments that he felt would contribute to the personnel on each of those boards. That seems to me to overlook completely the conclusion reached by  Mr Justice  Hope, namely, that there must be an integrated approach to the intelligence assessment function. That cannot be achieved while it is insisted that there be established two boards whose interests are artificially seen to be quite separate. The Prime Minister was at great pains in both of his statements- that of 5 May which was made when he tabled  Mr Justice  Hope's abridged report, and his second reading speech when introducing this Bill- to talk about the independence of the Office of National Assessments. The Bill provides that the reports of that Office are not to be subject to any direction in relation to their contents or their conclusions. That is very carefully set out in the Bill, and I think it is to be commended. I do not argue, naturally, with that provision. 
But if one looks at the way in which the Office is supposed to work, one sees that the functioning of it will be much more complicated than that. The matters to be assessed by the DirectorGeneral are ones on which he must report to each of the boards after he has made his assessment. Also the Director-General must consult with each board in relation to each assessment. What that means is that each of those boards is to be given two bites of the cherry. The DirectorGeneral of the Office of National Assessments is told that when he makes an assessment he must consult with the appropriate assessments board in relation to that assessment. That puts the Director-General in a somewhat invidious position. Let us face it; it is the Parliament which is laying down that direction. The Government is not doing so, but the Parliament is saying to the Director-General: 'You must consult with the appropriate board'. But how is he to make that assessment? How is he to say that it is a matter which concerns the Economic Assessments Board and not the so-called National Assessments Board? What nonsense! What an absurd duplication of bureaucracy to inflict upon this new Office and the head of this new Office ! 
We lay down in the Bill which is before us that, having consulted with those boards, the Director-General is not to be subject to any direction in relation to the contents or conclusions in a report that he makes. But we then say that he must submit that report to the appropriate board once again. It is of no use our saying that we are establishing this Office of National Assessments as an independent assessment agency while at the same time we hamstring it in this way by writing into the legislation directions to the Director-General which are so vague that he will be cautious in going about his duties. The effect of that will be nothing less than to imperil the security of this country, if we hamstring him in that way. 
Honourable members on both sides are agreed that if the Joint Intelligence Organisation is not functioning correctly and if we are to establish a new intelligence assessment agency which is to command the respect and support desired by both major political parties in this country, it must attract first class personnel. The Leader of the Opposition has said that we for our part applaud the choice and character of the person appointed as Director-General. Equally important, of course, is the quality of the men and women appointed to the Office. Proposed section 17 of the Bill deals with the staff of the Office. I think the honourable member for St George had some reservations which I would share about the fact that the Director-General may appoint, with the approval of the Public Service Board, persons from outside the Public Service. If we are serious about intelligence and security in this country, we ought to insist- the appropriation for that Office is voted by this Parliament- that the Director-General not be subject to any scrutiny by the Public Service Board. I agree that to an extent he should be subject to the scrutiny of the Auditor-General. 
Hopefully one day the Parliament, by means of a parliamentary committee, will be taken into the confidence of the security services in this country, in the same way as the United States Congress is taken into the confidence of the security services in that country by means of its Congressional committees. I believe that it is quite unreasonable that the Director-General should be hamstrung by being subject to the veto of the Public Service Board in relation to the qualifications and the numbers of people he appoints to the Office. 
I come back to a very alarming statement in the second reading speech of the Prime Minister. It is one with which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith took issue. The statement was: 
The Office will avoid comment or advice regarding policy, although its assessments should obviously have relevance to, and assist in, policy formation. The Office will be subject to policy control and managerial oversight through the Committee of Ministers on Intelligence and Security . . . 
We do not see that mechanism set out in the Bill. With the greatest respect to the honourable member for Isaacs, whose bona fides in this issue I do not dispute for a moment, that is standing the issue on its head. Assessments of intelligence ought to have regard to policy but ought not to be dictated by policy considerations. Policy is formulated as a result of those assessments. This is the point that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith was making. In relation to the collection of intelligence, of course, all security services in Australia will need to have regard to policy directions given by the government of Australia. In relation to the assessment of information received by the Office of National Assessments, the Office and its Director-General must not feel constrained by the prejudices of the government of the day. They must offer their advice fearlessly so that the best policy can be developed as a result of that assessment. I think the honourable member for Isaacs, to the extent that he was critical of the intelligence of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith on this issue, did the Parliament something of a disservice. 
I refer now to some of the meaningless jargon which is incorporated in this Bill. It should have no place in a legislative measure considered by the Parliament. Clause S sets out the functions of the Office and refers to the furnishing of reports to appropriate Ministers and other appropriate persons'. I have had occasion previously to refer to the constant use of the word 'appropriate' in the rhetoric of the Prime Minister. In that context it might be forgiven as being a loaded subjective judgment that conservatives can use when it suits them; but to put it in an Act of Parliament such as this is absolutely meaningless. If it means 'to persons as directed by Ministers', let it say so. To say 'appropriate', and to insist that we have in our bureaucracy persons who somehow, by an objective standard can be determined as being appropriate to receive intelligence assessments and reports from the Office of National Assessments, is, of course, a nonsense, and we ought to have nothing of it. 
I conclude by paying respect to  Mr Justice  Hope for his very worthwhile report. The report has exposed to me, as I think it has to most other members, the workings of the intelligence agencies in a very clear fashion, in a way which sets out what ought to be a clear view of the national interest. It is something which has been neglected for too long in Australia. The Prime Minister, in his 5 May tabling statement, skated over the question of the briefing of Leaders of the Opposition on security matters. Honourable members opposite may not be aware that for many years that had not been a standard practice in Australia, contrary to the practice pursued in other countries in the Western world, particularly the United Kingdom. We ought to hope that this tradition continues. To the extent that  Mr Justice  Hope was able to bring fresh light to bear on an area that has remained too grey, an area about which too many members of this Parliament have had to learn from informed leaks in newspapers, he is to be commended. However, I feel it is regrettable that the Government has felt that it has had to buckle under to the foreign affairs-defence establishment and to establish quite unnecessarily two boards to assist, supposedly, this Office of National Assessments. 
It is absurd that only six members from each side of the House are permitted to speak on the expenditure of thousands of millions of dollars by three departments which, I am sure, are of the greatest concern to all honourable members in the pursuit of their constituency responsibilities. The matter about which I speak this afternoon concerns the appropriation for the Office of Child Care and the payments to the States for which that Office has responsibility. I am surprised that no other member, particularly on the Government side, has yet addressed his mind to this question. I know that this must be a matter about which honourable members are receiving a great many representations from concerned constituents. In this area the Government has effected a complete change of policy in a covert fashion. Many honourable members, perhaps even some on the Australian Labor Party side of this chamber, have thought that occasionally some of us in the Labor Party attach too much importance to the institutions we establish to offer advice. I think that, if we look at the lamentable record of the Fraser Government in the field of children's services since it decided not to proceed with the establishment of a children's commission and decided instead to establish a mere division within the Department of Social Security, we will see just how important institutions occasionally can be in flagging changes in government policies. 
The lengths to which the Government has gone to conceal the change in policy and of heart which it has had about the support it is prepared to offer to child care throughout Australia are extraordinary. The first thing I point out is how oddly the estimates for child care are constructed. It is difficult to track payments to preschools, to family day care centres, to full day care centres and to other child care projects such as pre-school centres, after-school centres and holiday school programs. When the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and her officers were taxed with this matter before the Senate Estimates Committee, neither the Minister nor the officers were able to produce meaningful figures for these expenditures. So, let me tell honourable members what has happened. 
The Government has backed away from the commitment of the previous Government to provide 75 per cent of the cost of salaries of teachers in pre-schools. The Government has done this in the most snide and underhand fashion. It insists that it has merely moved to block grants for the States in these matters. But, in fact, if we look at the dollars appropriated we see that there has been a massive reduction. One has to be something of a Sherlock Holmes to track how this has happened. 
Of course, one does not have to be a genius to work out the impact. Every organisation in every State concerned with the administration of preschools knows the impact this is having on the level of fees. Fees have more than doubled- certainly in New South Wales- in pre-schools which are run by the Kindergarten Union and by local government councils. This is having a very bad effect on the priorities which the Government insists it wants to establish. No one could quarrel with the priorities the Government set for itself or at least announced in relation to family day care and for all its child care projects. The Government announced that it would give priority of access to single parent children, migrant children and children with special needs. I happen to represent an electorate which has a disproportionate number in every one of those categories. I assure honourable members that every pre-school facility in my electorate in the present situation is having to more than double its fees. The consequence is that children within those categories are now no longer able to attend pre-school as their parents cannot afford it. Places in those schools, in many cases, will not be left vacant. They will be filled by children from more affluent families who live in areas which may be more remote from these areas. Children will come the extra miles to get a place in a preschool because of the shortage in their own areas. 
The fact is that the Government has frozen the assistance which it is giving to the States for preschools at the level it was providing in November last year. If it were to do nothing more than that it would be apparent to anybody who is aware of the impact of inflation on all costs in Australia that the real level of commitment would be reduced. The Government's answer, of course, is the answer which it gives in every field of government expenditure where cuts have been made, and that is to say that the States can meet the shortfall from the extra general purpose revenue funds now made available to the States. If those limited funds were to meet every one of the objectives for which this Government claims those funds ought to be adequate, they would need to be more than doubled, trebled and quadrupled. Even then they still would not meet the deficiency. But the situation is much worse than that. 
If we look at New South Wales we see that the Government, in freezing the level of assistance at that which obtained in November last year, has had regard simply to the dollar figure and not to the breakup of capital and recurrent costs. The Director of the Office of Child Care conceded in testimony before the Senate Estimates committee dealing with this matter that in the last financial year in New South Wales there was still $6.8m worth of capital approvals outstanding for pre-school projects. The effect of that, roughly, as I understand it, is that in this financial year and in the next financial year we will be looking at the completion in New South Wales alone of about an extra 80 pre-school projects. This is an extra 80 pre-school project for which no recurrent funds are being made available by the Government at even November 1976 levels. This means that the limited amount of money that was made available in this Budget by reference to those levels will be less again. 
In New South Wales the practical effect of this has been that pre-school institutions are receiving, instead of 75 per cent of the cost of teachers' salaries, about 50 per cent of that cost. This situation will get worse as more pre-schools are completed and the amount of funds available for teachers' salaries at those institutions is therefore spread over a greater number of institutions. This is an extraordinary deception. It is one that flies in the face of the Minister's professed policies when the change to a system of block grant funding for pre-schools was announced last year. At that time the Minister said quite unequivocally in a Press statement: 
The amount to be paid to each State . . . will approximate the amount the States would have received under the former percentage base agreement. 
That can mean nothing more than the Government undertook at least to meet the dollar figure which would pay 75 per cent of teachers ' salaries in pre-schools. But as I have explained, the Government now concedes that in several States, especially in New South Wales and to a lesser extent in Victoria where there is still a backlog of projects for completion, it had no indication of just what will be the precise impact of this dollar sum on the level of subsidy for teachers' salaries. The effect of this will be to drive out of these institutions children who are in the category that the Government has singled out as being most deserving or, in many cases, to close the institutions or to leave them empty. 
The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  has instanced in this place on several occasions recently the absurd position which has arisen in his electorate in the inner city part of Sydney around the Glebe area, where a brand new institution has been completed and children of residents in that district in a low income area of Sydney will not be able to afford to send their children to that pre-school. It will be used by the more affluent commuters to jobs in the city as a child-minding centre. That surely cannot be what the Government intended in relation to children's services, but it is unmistakably the indirect result of the new directions of policy being set discreetly by this Government. 
I am at a loss to know where to start. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  began by telling us how he was delighted to see migrants become wanted and valued members of the Australian community. This Minister has taken every step he possibly can to obstruct migrants to this country becoming citizens. I will revert to that matter during the Estimates debate. I will start by referring to the achievements which the Minister listed. Firstly, the Government established a separate department. For the first 18 months, that remained nothing but a cosmetic device. No functions were changed. After that the Minister then established an ethnic affairs branch within his Department. He established the branch and advertised the positions but when applicants asked for duty statements none was available. It was a complete hoax. This was the very important point that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr lnnes)  made at the outset of his contribution to this debate. 
This Minister, who regards himself as having some responsibility for ethnic affairs, has no influence on the provision of services to migrants in this country. He is a eunuch. He is a disaster. He ought to resign. The next achievement he listed was the establishment of an advisory council which simply substituted for another advisory council which existed already. There was merely a change in form. How typical it is for the Tories in this Parliament that they should seize at formalities like that as evidence of some real change in the provision of services to people in this country. I can assure the Minister that it is known amongst migrant communities as a complete farce. 
The third thing he talked about was the category of persons eligible to come to this country. He said that it had been expanded in some way. It has not been expanded. The Minister talked about entrepreneurs now being welcome in this country. They are not welcome. Anybody overseas who is mislead by that sort of rhetoric will be sadly disillusioned the first time he or any of his relatives in this country seeks to get him to come into this country. 
The Minister talked about the magnificent record of this Government in relation to refugees. There was a very serious situation in the Lebanon and the Government's response to it was marked at every turn by excessive formality, by bureaucratic delay and by the inability of the Minister to get on top of his Department and to direct it to give him the sort of policy advice to which any Minister in this Parliament is entitled. Having had refugees from the Lebanon come to this country, the provision of services to them is so deficient. That is the point I wanted to come to. 
Many honourable members here may not have had much contact with refugees from the Lebanon. I have had a very great deal of contact with them, as have the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and other people in that area of Sydney. So also has the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who is to follow me in this debate. I will be delighted if he can get up in this chamber and say that the provision of services, the provision of Arabic speakers, has been adequate within the welfare services of this country. They have not. 
The Minister also grandstanded in the best conservative traditions over the refugees from Vietnam. The situation in Vietnam was created by persons whom the Liberal and Country Party supported. They supported that sad and sorry situation. It was also people on the Government side of the chamber who quite irresponsibly urged persons to leave their native country, Vietnam, and come here and to other countries. If the Minister is sincere about doing anything about this he can because there are thousands of refugees in Thailand. Of course they cannot all be taken into the Australian community. We would do ourselves a great service if we stopped pretending the situation was otherwise and stopped this grandstanding. We will judge the Minister's performance by how he provides for the persons who have come to this country at the request of successive governments. 
The Minister talked about an amnesty. I would have thought that he would have hung his head about the selective and partisan fashion in which that amnesty was implemented. It brought upon him a rebuke from the Ombudsman, the first rebuke that the Ombudsman has had to deliver. Despite the very clear language which the Ombudsman adopted, the Minister said in this chamber only a matter of weeks ago that he was not prepared to canvass the statements of the Ombudsman before the Parliament. That is absolutely disgraceful. 
The Minister then talked about the establishment of ethnic broadcasting. I thought that he would hang his head in that respect. Ethnic broadcasting was an initiative of the Australian Labor Party Government. The attempts by the present Government to give ethnic broadcasting some kind of statutory basis have been weak. In the first instance, it was to be hived off to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Australian Broadcasting Commission said that it did not want ethnic broadcasting; that it could not cope with it; and that it was not prepared to reduce its present services to encompass the new service. So, a special broadcasting authority was to be established. Because of backwoodsmen in the Government parties, that legislation has not yet been produced in the Parliament. In any event, I assure the House that the listeners to ethnic radio do not concern themselves one iota with its statutory format. They are simply concerned with its effectiveness and with the way in which the producers of the programs are able to go about their tasks and how happy they are about their security. At this level the Minister has failed. 
The Minister next instanced the establishment of experimental migrant resources centres. This is the greatest gimmick to come from the Prime Minister. After he was elected at the great con election of 1975, he discovered the migrant communities. Even in his electorate broadcasts he talks about the hopes of migrants. He has no idea of what the needs of migrants are. If he did, he certainly would not have established these two bodies which together will cost $ 100,000. What a great sum of money that is! The centre in Melbourne has been given to the Greek society and not one Turk has walked in the door since the 
Elace was established. The centre in Sydney is to e established at Parramatta. If it is established as ineptly as the one in Melbourne it will receive exactly the same kind of patronage. Migrants can perceive the situation for what it is. They are demanding welfare services, as the Minister knows. Daily he refuses to support their applications to his colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
The Minister next talked about the establishment of the National Accreditation Authority for Interpreters and Translators. When the Minister first claimed that as a great achievement of this Government he issued a Press statement two days before the issue of the Press statement which announced the establishment of the Authority and the appointment of personnel to it. The Minister anticipated himself. The Authority had not been established. But that is enough of these bogus, phoney achievements. What migrant people in this country want is the provision of services which they can use. Any of us who have had dealings with non-English speaking persons in our community have had to deal with the bureaucracy and know how difficult the migrants' problems are. We know that in no government department is the counter staff equipped to handle migrants' problems. We know that nothing is being done about the matter. The Government would do well to face up to this issue. The Minister would do well to use his influence with his colleagues- the Minister for Social Security, especially, and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)-  to improve this situation. 
As the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr lnnes)  said, there are far too many bureaucrats here in Canberra and far too many people in supervisory roles in the State offices of the Department of Social Security who are responsible for the provision of migrant welfare services and who are not familiar with what is going on in the field. The Minister will be aware of the great dissatisfaction among ethnic organisations with the administration of the grant-in-aid welfare workers scheme. He will know that it is the traditional, establishment welfare organisations which have grabbed that money and which have not geared up in order to provide services to migrants. Persons who need them such as the Yugoslavs in Sydney and the Turks, are being denied these funds. The Minister does nothing about that. 
The honourable member for Melbourne instanced the absence of Arabic-speaking skills within the Department of Social Security in Sydney. This is at a time when huge numbers of very disadvantaged Lebanese are coming into the Australian work force and community. These persons do not have their needs met by the Department. If the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs were concerned about these matters he would be concerned about migrants- particularly women migrants- who go to hospitals, who speak no English and who find no translators to translate their requirements to the staff. If the Minister were concerned about this he would be concerned about the drop-off in language courses for migrants. He would not say: 'The numbers are dropping away'. He would wonder why the numbers are dropping away and why these courses are not being provided effectively. If the Minister were serious about child migrant education he would never be out of the office of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  because funds are being cut in that area. Persons who have come to this country to establish a new life and a new future for themselves and their children are having that vision shattered as a result of the partisan attitude of the Government and particularly of the Minister. The Minister has been an absolute disaster. He ought to resign. 
It is interesting in these debates to hear the Party that is opposed to big government welcoming the establishment of all this extra bureaucracy and the issue of paper after paper of information. No one is disputing that a number of bureaucrats have been appointed to new jobs and no one is disputing that there has been a whole lot of paper deluging members of this Parliament. What honourable members on this side of the chamber have constantly complained about is that there has been no effective improvement in the provision of services to migrants under this Government. We spoke about that earlier today. Since, as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  conceded in that debate, very few of those services indeed are the responsibility of his Department, I propose to confine my remarks to a couple of matters that are within the province of his Department. 
Firstly, I wish to talk about the vexed issue of citizenship, which is so concerning the Minister that he has written to every member of parliament about it and has written articles for the popular Press about it. It seems to have agitated him a very great deal. He also appeared on the electronic media earlier in the week about it. The first thing I propose to say is that, like all other honourable members, I prefer to find out about the contents of letters written to me when I receive them rather than to read about them in the newspapers. In this case I was able to read in Saturday's newspapers what the Minister said he had written to me instead of having to wait until the letter arrived on Tuesday of this week. That struck me as being a little discourteous. 
I gather that the Minister is concerned mainly about the dignity of citizenship ceremonies. The Minister is a big man on dignity. He is concerned to impress upon candidates the honour and dignity of citizenship. If the Minister is so concerned about the standard of citizenship ceremonies I think he should be prepared to offer to provide some assistance towards meeting the cost of those ceremonies, which his Department has persistently refused to do. This may not be a matter of consequence to the municipalities in his own electorate, but it is of great consequence to the municipalities in my electorate. In the Municipality of Marrickville more than 3,000 people a year become citizens, which is the greatest number handled by any local government authority in Australia. These ceremonies take place throughout the year, and this cost represents a considerable burden on the limited resources of a local government authority in an area which does not have a very great rate base in any event. The Government, through the Minister, has consistently denied the provision of any assistance to local government to meet the cost of these ceremonies. Yet the Minister says that he is so concerned about the dignity of these ceremonies. 
I am coming to that point because I think it goes to show what nincompoops you are. You object to politicians attending events at which they hope to gain some partisan advantage. I do not know about the persons on the other side of the chamber - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)  - Order! I remind the honourable member that he should address his remarks to the Chair. If he does so, he should not use the word 'nincompoop'. 
It certainly would not be applicable to you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Let me fully concede that I do not go to any function from which I do not aim to gain some political advantage. I suggest that it is quite one thing to go to a citizenship ceremony and view it as a political occasion, which it plainly is, and it is another thing to inject party politics into it. It is the inability of honourable members opposite to perceive that distinction which so disqualifies them from taking part in any intelligent discussion on this subject. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  made a rather Freudian slip. He talked about a Labor candidate in local government elections attending a children's event and injecting politics into it. That is precisely the kind of attitude which underlies the mentality of Liberal-Country Party members on these issues. They continue to regard migrants to this country as being children. They continue to regard the only fit topics for ethnic radio as being the soccer results from the countries of origin of our migrants or news of ethnic carnivals at which there may have been folk dancing or something like that. What is wrong with having intelligent newscasts and intelligent current affairs programs conducted in languages other than English for persons in Australia who cannot comprehend English? It is precisely because honourable members opposite regard migrants as children that they will be rejected by them at the next election. 
I do not know how many migrants the honourable member has in his electorate. He is probably pretty safe. 
The Minister got into hot water on this question of citizenship ceremonies. As I understand it, a member of bis staff was asked for elaboration on his news release and on his letter. By way of colour the remark was added that the Minister was also understood to be concerned about the handing out of application forms for citizenship in shopping centres and market places. I ask honourable members: What could be less offensive than that action? The Minister said that it amounted in fact to coercing people to become citizens. When the Minister appeared on television two nights later he was unable to detail a single incident of coercion. In fact, when he was faced by the spokesman for a group which has been active in assisting persons to take up citizenship if they so desired, he was unable to give one instance at all and he was at some pains to say at great length that he was not critical of that group at all. 
It may very well be that a great number of potential citizens live in areas that are presently represented by members of the Australian Labor Party. That may be the case, but it cannot be helped. I can tell honourable members that as far as I am aware groups conducting these drives to inform persons about citizenship would be very grateful for any assistance they received from members of any party whatsoever. This line which the Minister has been pushing is one which he has been pushing for some time behind closed doors at Liberal Party meetings and at meetings of so-called ethnic supporters of the Liberal Party. The first time it saw the light of day was last week when it appeared in the Press. That is why the Minister has been caught out. He has not been able to produce a single instance of coercion. In fact, I think that every honourable member ought to be grateful that groups are going out into the community and providing this service for people who wish to become citizens. 
There is no publicity available in a language other than English to inform migrants in this country about the conditions of eligibility for citizenship and about the way in which they can go about applying for citizenship. Applications for citizenship have meant a journey into town, into the central business district, during working hours. The Minister will say that interviewing officers have been made available at weekends on 22 occasions during the past year. I welcome that. That is a very good idea. But applications for citizenship will never be encouraged unless someone approaches people and makes it clear to them that the Government would welcome their becoming citizens if they so wished. I think the dignified words of a migrant to Australia,  Dr George  Paxinos, sum up a fair attitude on this. He says: 
There is nothing undignified about voluntary workers distributing leaflets in ethnic languages on street corners, providing information about citizenship and encouraging those who wish to apply to do so. However I believe there is immense lack of dignity in the situation of half a million migrants who live in this country without the vote because nobody has bothered to go and talk to them, to explain what their rights are and to help them take out citizenship if they decide they want to. 
That is the situation. Why can we not have an advertising program on ethnic radio and in the ethnic Press to inform people of their rights and, indeed, in the electoral field, to inform people from Commonwealth countries of their obligations. 
In the couple of minutes remaining to me I want to talk about one other item in the appropriation for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It concerns the matter on which the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  touched- the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. The appropriation provides no money for this beyond 3 1 December this year, and the blithe statement is made that the appropriation for the second half of this financial year will be found in the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. In fact, the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department and the proposed Human Fights Commission provide nothing like the same level of commitment in dollars. As I understand it, the Human Rights Commission is designed to have five commissioners; yet the annual amount involved is only about double the amount available already for the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. That office has done a splendid job in encouraging a sense of dignity among people who have come to this country to make their lives, to even out discrimination against them and to alert the Australian community to shortcomings in the present set-up. If that kind of outlet is denied to migrants in this country it will be a very sorry day indeed and migrants will certainly know who to blame. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am delighted to join in this consideration of the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of 
Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity and particularly to follow in the consideration of those estimates my colleagues, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I am delighted also to see at the table the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  I hope that he will respond to some of the points raised by both the previous speakers from this side of the chamber. He certainly is one of the more thoughtful Ministers and he is one who shows more courtesy in his responses to suggestions from this side of the chamber. 
In talking to the estimates for these three departments, firstly, I have to echo what the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, namely, that no one on this side concedes the appropriateness of having a Minister for Productivity. We feel that if the Government were honest it would not need to enlist the undoubted talents of the Minister by the creation of a totally unnecessary department- a department indeed whose role ought more properly to be fulfilled within the Department of Industry and Commerce, as was suggested by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. In addition, of course, the honourable member for Adelaide has canvassed very large questions concerning economic planning in Australia, the institutions which we use to do it and how they might be improved. 
In talking to these estimates I want to concentrate particularly on those for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, which is the Department under which the appropriation for the Industries Assistance Commission is made. The LAC is a body which is everybody's favourite whipping boy when it suits. But it is a body of professional men of integrity who I believe are not commended enough in this chamber. The way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  frequently, before select audiences, bashes the IAC for the decisions that his Government has to make is disgraceful. It bears repeating, and it cannot be said too often, that the Industries Assistance Commission merely makes recommendations on protection and that it is for the Government to make decisions on those recommendations. When honourable members opposite seek to talk about the employment consequences of the Government's decisions on tariffs, they ought to bear in mind that the Government has to assume responsibility and that the Industries Assistance Commission merely sets out recommendations. If honourable members opposite have any doubts about those recommendations, the Parliament is the place to raise them. 
The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs was headed until recently by a Minister who has now been dispatched from Australia to perform tasks which are rather indefinitely set out. The portfolio of business and consumer affairs has fallen to a new Minister. But I think it is interesting to examine the relationship which exists between the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in relation to these protection issues. It is about time the Government identified one Minister or the other as having responsibility for carrying the can for the Government on its decisions on these questions. It is apparent to us on this side of the chamber that the Prime Minister influences the decisions on the big protection issues in this country. But it is totally unsatisfactory for business that it must make submissions to two Ministers, neither one of whom by himself seems to have the proper ministerial authority for those decisions. The joint statements that are always issued by those two Ministers give no indication of the ministry in which different types of decisions are made. In this chamber the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs always leads in a debate. But it is completely unsatisfactory for business outside, which after all has to put its views to the Government on the basis of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission, that it has two Ministers and two bureaucracies with which to deal. 
The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs is responsible for what might broadly be described as the trade regulatory authorities in Australia and is responsible particularly for the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. I want to say something about the responsibilities of both of those bodies. The Trade Practices Commission administers an Act which has been very largely gutted in the past year by amendments introduced by the Government which have meant that large areas of economic activity which formerly came under examination to determine whether they offended the public interests are no longer so examined. I refer particularly to merger activity. Again  ad hoc  decisions are being reached in secret by the Government, particularly in cases where a foreign investment element is involved, according to no discernible criteria; and that is a backward step. 
During the election campaign two years ago, and indeed since, Government supporters were always anxious to set out before select audiences the tremendous cost of these bureaucracies. If one examines the precise estimates with which we are dealing at the moment one sees that the appropriations for the statutory authorities- that is, the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal- are considerably less than the appropriation for the Department itself. For example, legal expenses for the Trade Practices Commission in this financial year amount to no more than $75,000, which I suggest is a relatively modest expenditure for outside legal expenses for a Commission which is charged with such an important task. 
More worrying is the appropriation for the Department for legal fees. It will be seen that the appropriation has been reduced by a massive 3 1 per cent. People may say: 'What is the significance of that?' The Department is charged with the implementation of consumer protection prosecutions under the Trade Practices Act. It seems to me that the Government's activities in this area have been modest enough to date in any event. When one considers that those activities are now to contract by possibly a much greater extent than 3 1 per cent, when one has regard to inflation and that kind of thing, one realises that we are watching a diminution in government effort in this important area. 
The amount of the grant being made available by the Government to the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations is to remain virtually static at the sum of $85,000, which is particularly modest. When one estimates the amounts that are being arranged against the public interest in this important area of consumer protection one sees that the commitment of the Government is extremely modest, that it is getting smaller, and that it is getting much too small indeed. 
The same kinds of considerations arise in relation to the Prices Justification Tribunal. Speculation in the Press recently talks about getting lawyers out of the Prices Justification Tribunal area. I welcome that. The reason that lawyers are in there is that companies have chosen to take them in there. It was never any part of the Government's intention or any part of the Tribunal's intention to make it an overly legalistic body. These are important areas. There are whole areas of economic life of this country which would never have come under examination had we not had the Prices Justification Tribunal. In an era when we talk about wage relativities, the massive sums earned by the executive directors of James Patrick and Co. Pty Ltd, the stevedoring company, would never have come to light had it not been for a Prices Justification Tribunal public inquiry. Because those figures were paid in respect of directors of an exempt proprietary company they were not available in the Companies Offices, they were not available at the stock exchanges, but they came out in public as a result of the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is a worthwhile body. It opens up to public examination and scrutiny areas of our economic life which ought to be opened up. They were not opened up before. The level of assistance and commitment of this Government to all these areas of trade regulation is much too slight. That can be seen against the background of a legislative framework which has now been weakened considerably in both those areas. I ask the Government to reconsider the level of assistance it gives in these areas. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Mackellar. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! It is not for the Whip from either side of the chamber to insist that the Chair carry out any ruling. The Standing Orders provide a procedure for the way in which honourable members are called to speak. They provide that the honourable member first rising to speak should be called. By custom the Chair has exercised a discretion in calling members from each side of the chamber alternately- in this case from the Government and Opposition sides. In this instance we have rising an honourable member who is not a member of the Government parties. He was the first to rise in his place so I gave him the call. The Government Whip has the chance to take appropriate action. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have already answered that point of order taken by the Government Whip. The Chair is allowed a discretion. I call the honourable member for Mackellar. 
-Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that the Trade Practices Commission has recently contacted over 700 Australians about losses totalling $120,000 suffered by them in a fraudulent home-operated business scheme called Contra-Pac systems? Has the Commission referred to the Australian Legal Aid Office the hundreds of applications for legal aid which it has subsequently received. Can the honourable gentleman give an assurance that adequate legal assistance will be given promptly to the many people who lost their savings in this fraudulent scheme? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
From which courts in each State have appeals to the Privy Council been (a) instituted and (b) heard in 1973 and each subsequent year and how many appeals were heard from each court in each year. 
I rise in this debate to oppose specifically the distribution commissioners' report in relation to New South Wales. I do so in great sorrow. I must talk about the way in which this redistribution has been effected, and about the electoral laws and the way in which they have been implemented by the distribution commissioners. I do not wish to speak about the Commonwealth Electoral Act, except to say that it is apparent from the exercise in relation to New South Wales that it is completely deficient. 
Many of the comments which have come from the other side of the House have come from persons who, like me, have been disadvantaged personally as a result of the recommendations in the reports which we are now debating. That is inevitable. Whenever this House of this Parliament considers redistribution proposals, the inevitable spread of population and the static number of seats in this House will mean that certain members will be gravely disadvantaged. I have been gravely disadvantaged. However, I hope that I can speak about the deficiencies in the mechanisms available, the deficiencies in this legislation, and most importantly the many grave questions which hang over the whole way in which the commissioners in New South Wales have carried out their brief to redistribute the electorates of New South Wales. Very grave questions are raised as to the propriety of the way that was done. 
The commissioners for New South Wales were appointed on 19 April 1977. A little over four months later, on 23 August this year, the commissioners gave notice of the proposed divisions for the State of New South Wales. I believe that, if the mechanisms set out in the Commonwealth Electoral Act are not to be a mockery, the commissioners ought to have thought long and hard before they come out with their notice of proposed divisions and only in the most extreme circumstances and only after great consideration ought they to depart from their initial suggestions. I regret that in New South Wales major departures have been made without any explanation whatsoever from the commissioners. This calls into question, I believe most sincerely, the diligence and, indeed, the honesty with which they have discharged their commission. 
I started out by saying that inevitably, with the spread of population and the pattern of human settlement in our great metropolitan areas, there has been an invanable pattern in the large cities of Australia that members occupying seats closest to the central business districts and closest to the centres of town are the most vulnerable in a redistribution. But what we expect is that the commissioners have given proper consideration when they come out with notice of their proposed divisions, so that they do not depart dramatically and drastically from that notice when they come out with their final report. In New South Wales, in relation to the central metropolitan area of Sydney they have done that in a way that is so seriously at variance with their original suggestions that there is a stink about the whole system. After four months' consideration the Commissioners complied with the charge that they are given in the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which is to publish notice of the proposed divisions at every Post Office in the proposed divisions. There is a reason for that. It is so that persons can see into what electoral division it is proposed they should move or indeed in which electoral division they may now be. 
I think it is a commonly accepted fact by honourable members on both sides of this House that if there has been a major change in land use, if there has been some resumption of land or if some land formerly settled becomes recreation land or something like that, an adjustment of a boundary may be appropriate. Indeed, a reordering of the boundaries of subdivisions may be appropriate. It has not been unknown for whole subdivisions to be shifted after the Distribution Commissioners have given notice of their original proposal. 
In the central area of Sydney the Distribution Commissioners have drastically altered their originally proposed divisions. They have shifted a majority of electors in a whole central Sydney municipality from a proposed division into a new division. They have given no notice whatsoever of that to any of the persons affected by it, and of course no person, no institution and no local government authority has had the opportunity to protest against the intention which I firmly believe they held in the back of their minds the whole time. I believe a dishonest notice was given under the terms of section 20 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. That can be the only conclusion that follows from such a dramatic variation. 
In New South Wales we were all faced with drastically changed ground rules. The number of electorates was being reduced from 45 to 43. This meant that the number of electors in every electorate would increase hugely at a time, of course, when the population is increasing and at a time when, as every honourable member knows, the demands on the responsibilities of members of Parliament to their constituents are also increasing. The Commissioners should have thought long and hard about this. The quota for New South Wales was set at substantially more than 71,000 persons. Every one of the electorates affected- I am referring to Sydney, Grayndler, Lowe and Evans- was about 10,000 under quota, so it was a big cut-up. It was a major recommittal. It was not a matter of aligning one subdivision with another. We are as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  reminded the House today, working in an area where huge numbers of the population are not citizens or are not registered to vote and are therefore not counted for the purposes of this whole exercise. We are talking about the most densely populated, the most deprived areas in the inner metropolitan area of Sydney. The Commissioners have disposed of their change of mind in these terms: 'We have made certain changes to our published proposals' and now there is 'a more equitable adjustment of community interest among the electors involved'. They refer there to the seats of Lowe, Grayndler and Evans. That is nonsense. The Press, which again has never discharged the responsibilities which Australians should impose upon members of the fourth estate in this country, has never looked at the comments made to the Commissioners about their original distribution proposals. 
There has been an acceptance that, because a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  published a lengthy objection, it was therefore a worthwhile and a well thought out objection. It is a nonsensical objection. It is an objection of which the law clerk in the firm which drafted it for him ought to be ashamed. It commences with an incorrect citation of the Electoral Act. It refers to the Commonwealth Electoral Act of 1918-1973. In fact, it has been amended on several occasions since 1973 and, in any event, the former Attorney-General changed the form of citation. The Act that was passed by this Parliament in 1974 as a result of the great double dissolution and the historic Joint Sitting of the Houses of Parliament set out the new matters which are to be considered in the distribution of electorates. The right honourable member for Lowe has set out an objection which I commend to honourable members for examination. It is a disgrace; it is a circular argument that, because of its length, is supposed to have some internal consistency. In fact it does not. 
I want to hark back to the point that the distribution commissioners say that they have more equitably adjusted community of interest. That is the criterion addressed in section 19 (2), paragraph (a)- 'community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests'. There the right honourable member for Lowe made several points. He talked about there being no economic, social or regional interests in common between the parts of land which it was proposed to join to the former parts of the division of Lowe. The mere assertion of that ought to be backed up with some facts. Yet this is what he calls in aid: He says that the major economic markets in the area are the shopping centre of Burwood and the Flemington markets. He says that they draw their support as commercial centres solely from the subdivisions which lie to their north and which have been placed in the division of Sydney. If he had supported that with a statement or a market research survey conducted by the Chamber of Commerce in Burwood or by the State Produce Authority that conducts the Flemington markets, there might have been some basis to it. But there is none. It is a dishonest statement. The Remington markets are populated and patronised by persons who would' never be able to live in the more wealthy precincts of the former division of Lowe. The right honourable member for Lowe ought to know that and so must the distribution commissioners. 
When talking about economic and social interests, the right honourable member for Lowe put in aid that the Hume Highway marked a natural boundary. Later on he went on to describe it as a physical feature, as though it were a huge gorge or a freeway instead of a street that is punctuated at 100-yard intervals by intersections, traffic lights and massive traffic flows in every direction. It cannot in any way be described as a physical feature. But most interestingly he referred to the proposed local government amalgamations in New South Wales as being some authority for the proposition that those local government authorities that lie to the north of the Hume Highway have something in common because it had been proposed by the Boundaries Commission in New South Wales that they ought to be amalgamated. When he asserts that that is the case, he overlooks the fact that a massive part of the municipality of Strathfield lies south of the Hume Highway. The most comic objection of the right honourable member for Lowe was what he said in relation to the criterion set down in paragraph (b) of section 19(2) of the Act relating to means of communication and travel within the division. He said: . . . there are very few transport services running from the area South of the Hume Highway . . . and . . . to travel by train from Strathfield to Campsie Stations requires a journey via Redfern or Central Stations. 
Well, I suppose, as the proverbial managing clerk used to say to the articled clerk: 'If you want to go down two blocks and travel via La Perouse on the tram, it is going to take you three hours '. It is a nonsense ! 
The right honourable member has nominated in his objections the prime commercial areas of his former electorate. Burwood is one of the biggest areas. Everybody in Sydney knows the Westfield Shopping Centre as a focus of commercial attention for persons from a very wide area. There is a direct bus service, run by the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales, from Burwood to Campsie. It runs at 10- minute intervals and it is routes Nos 492 and 494. I do not expect those who formerly transported themselves only in Daimler motor vehicles, sitting up in the back seat to elevate their height, to be aware of that. But the government bus services are run as an integrated operation by the Pubhc Transport Commission of New South Wales. 
There is a stink about this. It becomes a farce that there ought to be a provision in the Act that boundaries be posted in post offices when half a municipality- 30,000 people- and I spoke to the Mayor of Marrickville today- sees this area go into the seat of Sydney. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les MacMahon),  who is a hard workmg member, will now have responsibility for the most disadvantaged areas in the State of New South Wales. That has been statistically proven. I refer to Leichhardt, Marrickville, the centre of Sydney and south Sydney. The statistical bias operating against the Labor Party which Malcolm Mackerras, a prominent psephologist, has noted at a figure of about 2 per cent has been restored. Labor will get 90 per of the vote in Sydney, but we will have a safe Liberal seat for a tired, weary old man who ought to be discredited by bis own party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
Was it before or after the Governor-General signed the wrong States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1976 that His Excellency requested the change in the practice for giving the Attorney-General's certificate in respect of each Bill presented for royal assent.  (Hansard,  25 August 1977. p. 719) 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. 
I will direct the question to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that the latest Bank of New South Wales  Monthly Review  claims that the Reserve Bank had been premature in entering into the bond market to share yields and that appreciable interest rate cuts were hard to justify before next year? Would he agree that the official interest rate cuts to date have been largely cosmetic because of the failure of the market rates charged for bank overdrafts and home loans through the building societies to move in the same downward direction? 
