-I am pleased to have brought up the AddressinReply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. I move: 
That the Address be agreed to. 
-In supporting the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill I can well see, as can most honourable members, the dilemma of the choice that faced the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I must commend the Minister on arriving at what I consider to be the most sensible solution. The choices, as the situation appeared to me, were three-fold. At this stage the Government could have gone ahead and not had any increase in ~air navigation charges. That was the first choice. The Government could have increased air navigation charges by about IS per cent, as is proposed. 
That was the second choice. The third choice was that the Government could have gone ahead with the commitment of the previous Government and increased air navigation charges by a large amount, something like 80 per cent. 1 think that the first option- no increaseregrettably is indefensible in our present climate. At the moment inflation, as everybody knows, is raging at a record level in this country and the Government's deficit also is running at a record level. I think the people of Australia would regard the Government as being completely irresponsible if there were not at least some increase in charges. I am pleased to see that that increase equates fairly well with the rate of inflation in this country in the last 12 months, that is about 15 percent. 
The third choice which was obvious to the Government was that of following the recommendations of the previous Government. In my view that also would be completely irresponsible. That sort of increase would have been typical of the nearsightedness of the previous Government. We must remember, as has been said already by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  that aviation in Australia is very much a public utility and a social necessity. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has shown in relation to Tasmania that that principle must be carried through always. Just as in a previous era the railways put forward the frontiers of our country, civil aviation in large measure puts forward our frontiers in these days. The railways still are considered by many people to be a social necessity, and in fact they are. I noted that in the Budget for this year the Australian National Railways Commission is budgeting for a deficit of $40m. The railways still are regarded as a public utility, but I say that in these days civil aviation is even more a public utility than is the Railways Commission. 
I reiterate what was pointed out by the honourable member for Casey: Civil aviation in many ways is a special case in Australia. This is an extremely sparsely settled country, one across which people need to travel for business and for recreation as well as for compassionate reasons, at times on very short notice. I think most honourable members would agree that civil aviation costs in this country receive, and should receive, special consideration because of our special needs in such a sparsely settled country. 
If the recommendations of the previous Government had been followed one naturally would ask who would pay. There are 3 main fields of civil aviation in the country. The international airways already pay, as we know, very high fees for landing at Australian airports. It was reported recently that a jumbo jet, a Boeing 747, landing in Australia is up for $3,348 in air navigation charges. If the same airliner lands at Frankfurt, it is up for $1304. If the same airliner lands at San Francisco, it is up for what I suppose most of us would consider to be the paltry sum of $219. 1 think all of us should admit that the international carriers must look at our airline charges and wonder just what they are paying for. I can appreciate the pressure that has been put on in the last 12 months by airlines such as Pan Am World Airways which can land at one of its home ports for $219 but which has to pay sixteen times as much to land in Sydney. I can see why Pan Am has tried to put pressure through the United States Department of State for action to be taken against our airline, Qantas Airways Ltd. 
Having dispensed with the international airlines as a possibility the second sort of area in which the funds could be recouped would be the internal commercial airlines. Already the air navigation fees make up between 10 per cent and 15 per cent of costs of internal commercial airlines. This would appear to be a fairly reasonable percentage, but obviously an 80 per cent increase in air navigation charges would increase that to something like 30 per cent. That would seem to me to be quite out of the question. When one compares the cost of an economy flight on an internal airline in Australia- in Australia internal airlines these days make up a fairly high proportion of the means of travel in this countrywith the cost of first class rail travel, one finds that airlines already charge twice as much. I think this speaks for itself. A large increase in the cost of internal commercial carriers would obviously begin to work even more against the economies of scale. A 10 per cent or 20 per cent increase in air fares at this moment is bound to decrease the number of airline passengers. The number of passenger air miles travelled in Australia is beginning to decrease. I believe quite frankly that if we increase charges to those airlines so that their fares rise markedly at the moment, the number of passengers will start to fall off markedly. That will lead to disadvantages in economies of scale. 
The third possibility to carry the can in this case is general aviation. I suppose we can dismiss this possibility quite readily because general aviation fees- air navigation charges- only raise at this stage $2.5m of the roughly $45m raised by air navigation charges in this country. 'So we can see that even the doubling of general aviation charges would increase the recovery rate by about 3 per cent only. As the honourable member for Denison said, the general aviation charges were increased by about 100 per cent 2 years ago and by 50 per cent last year. I think, in view of the special problems of this country, general aviation deserves a better go than that. General aviation includes private aeroplanes and aerial work. In my electorate of EdenMonaro, which is a country electorate, a great deal of aerial work is going on, especially since the re-introduction of the superphosphate bounty. A great deal of charter work is done in this country. In my electorate charter operators work fairly frequently between several airports, because of the terrain and the large distances involved. General aviation is very important to country areas. In those areas it is a social necessity. I was interested to discover that in terms of general aviation Australia is about third in the world league. It is a very big country in terms of general aviation. 
I believe I have dismissed the first option, the one of no increase, and the third option of following slavishly the previous Government's proposal. For that reason, almost by default, I believe the option taken by the Minister shows itself to be the most reasonable. It shows itself to have good faith with the airlines. Obviously they will have to increase their charges because of the 15 per cent increase. At least it is arguable that that only keeps track with inflation. I believe that the option which the Minister has taken keeps faith with the taxpayer. The taxpayer has ultimately to pay for the deficit in the airline account. I believe that at this stage the 15 per cent increase keeps good faith with the tourist industry. One must remember that the tourist industry in this country is very much a poor cousin. One of the main reasons for that is the cost of getting people here and of getting people around the country. Despite this by default good option taken by the Minister, there will still be a deficit of $8 7m in the account for airline charges. It is still a very substantial amount. Nevertheless, it is a little less than last year. I am pleased to see that the proportion recovered will be 57 per cent, compared with the 54 per cent last year. 
I note that air navigation charges are not the only forms of recovery of income by the Department. The aviation fuel tax recovery is also a substantial form of recovery. I note that the method of arriving at the proportion of aviation fuel tax put down to recovery against airline charges is arbitrary. I believe it is one thing into which the Minister could look in future. 
Obviously there are some other problems which we must overcome. I have been talking about the cost of a jumbo landing at Sydney being sixteen times as much as the cost of it landing at San Francisco. As a previously very practical man, I tend to look at the cost of the bureaucracy involved in the airlines section of the ministry for Transport. I was very interested to discover that the support costs at head office and at regional offices- that is, the administrative costs away from airports- this year will be about $52m against $71m for the cost of running the airports. Perhaps this $52m is too high. It seems a very high proportion of the actual costs of running airports. I hope that the ministry, in line with the general principle of sound management that my Government is following these days, will look into this matter because it would seem possible to me to get some reduction in the $52m, thereby reducing the deficit in the airline account. 
The fuel tax question should be looked into. There is also the question of whether the overseas operators are getting fuel in Australia at beneficial rates. They have to pay more for their fuel overseas. I believe we should look very closely at some sort of balancing up of this account so that overseas operators pay a fair price. I think, however, that all things taken into consideration, when one looks at the options, the Minister has taken the right option. I believe that the Bill is a very fair one in the circumstances. Therefore I support it. 
I must admit that it would be difficult to find legislation nearer to my heart than the legislation that is now before us. It is very near to the heart of my electors in Eden-Monaro; it is obviously not near to the heart of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who is the shadow Minister for Primary Industry. There is no doubt that the honourable member did not have his heart in what he was saying. Nevertheless we appreciate the opportunity to have some sort of opposing point of view despite the fact that that point of view is quite hollow and without any sort of logic. 
The Bill fulfills an election promise that my Government made in November. It was a very important promise to a very important industry. I remind the House that in 1973 prices went up greatly in the meat trade, right across the world. We were reaching the stage in Australia where people were beginning to look around for alternative products to eat. Prices in the beef trade at least doubled. They also went up in the mutton trade. It was at that stage that some members of this House were touting a quaint sort of export tax scheme. The figure mentioned in the newspapers was something around 10c per lb tax on meat exported. I believe that the reason for the tax was the expectation that the local price would come down. I note that at that time the Joint Committee on Prices, known as the Hurford Committee, talked about this proposition and came out in favour of it. I say thank heavens for the dissenting comments. I would like to quote to honourable members one of the dissenting comments: 
It should be remembered when considering the current level of meat prices that sheep meat prices were at very low levels until fairly recently and that, as a result, the sheep industry experienced many years of depressed returns and increasing indebtedness. There would seem to be no justification for Government intervention of a kind which would reduce the ability of those producers to recover from the effects of that period. 
A 10c per lb tax would have been absolutely crippling to the meat industry. It would have taken away what at that stage were probably fair profits to the beef industry. Nevertheless the findings of the Hurford Committee were rejected by the then Government which then went to the Coombs Committee report which recommended the beef export levy on the basis which was eventually adopted. 
This recommendation was made in June 1973. The levy was imposed in November 1973 at a time, probably by a fluke, when the meat market reached its peak of price. Someone said to me at the time: 'It looks as though the cow might jump over the moon'. The cow did not jump over the moon and prices from then on began to decline. There was some sufferance of the levy on the part of the public in November 1973 because the size of the levy did not seem to be too great a percentage of the cost of beef in particular. The inspection levy amounted to about 2.5 per cent of the price of a beast, and that did not seem too bad. When the meat export charge legislation was introduced in 1973 the Minister said: 
Currently there is a very strong export demand for Australian beef and in these circumstance it is not expected that the charge will be passed back to the livestock producer. 
That may have been conventional wisdom and it may have been in part true but I believe that it is questionable because, as it turns out, exporters are in fact price takers. They are the people who have to take the price that people overseas offer. They are not price makers in general. As prices of meat- in particular, beef- began to drop away again it became obvious that they were very much price takers, because within months there was very much a buyer's market. Export levels dropped off and the levy became part of the costs of the producer. 
At that stage too many other industries were being hit by a falling off in demand. It was most noticeable to the people in my area that industries were singled out for special treatment for all sorts of reasons, but certainly this pretence did not include the meat industry. At that stage when the motor industry got into all sorts of trouble it received Government help through the reduction in sales tax. I think at the time all Australians believed that, as a stop gap measure that was probably reasonable. But of course, in keeping with the general policy of the Australian Labor Party Government, no thought was given to the rural industries at a time when incomes were dropping off. The IAC report appeared eventually, on 30 September 1975, after many months of falling incomes in primary industries and in the meat trade at a time when it looked as though the beef industry in particular would suffer a very early demise. Luckily, the IAC report came out in favour of dropping that levy. It said that the suspension would benefit the exporter. It also said that the suspension would benefit the producer. But there was still no action by Labor. Now at least we are seeing action. 
I suppose that some points should be noted, in defence of the meat industry, that are not always obvious to people who are not as close to the industry as I am. Inspection costs are not paid for by other industries. The meat industry- as distinct from the fruit industry, the honey industry and several other industries- has had to pay its own inspection costs. It seems to me that meat inspections are a public health benefit and a social charge that, as has been the case traditionally, reasonably comes out of taxation revenue. There are costs in many industries that are passed on to the consumers. There are costs of quality control. Most of us would realise that meat inspections are a form of quality control. But in all cases in other sorts of industries these costs can be passed on by the producer almost at will. Unfortunately, in the meat industry with its marketing setup those costs cannot be passed on and they go back to the producer. I say in defence of the meat industry and of producers that the way we have traditionally paid for meat inspections via taxation is the logical way in which consumers and not producers pay the costs. I think that that makes the industry equivalent to many other industries in that sense. 
The benefits from the export industry flow on to the whole country. That, of course, applies to any export industry. But if there are no inspections in the meat industry there are no exports. As I said, the inspection is a social cost which is peculiar to this industry. If we want to keep this industry as an export industry there is a very strong argument for saying that the taxpayer- in this case, the consumer- should reasonably pay. Fortunately the legislation recognises that meat exporters cannot dictate the prices that the product will fetch in the market but rather that they must accept the ruling world price, which depends largely on factors beyond their control. By passing the cost of inspection services back to Consolidated Revenue the Government has again accepted that Consolidated Revenue also benefits from a sound export industry as does the Australian economy as a whole. 
Let me digress for a minute. It is typical of the problems of primary industry that the industry receives a bad Press each year when the Budget papers appear. Many costs attributable to the primary industries appear in a Budget whereas costs attributable to manufacturing industries do not appear. As I have said and as I will say often in this Parliament, people do not appreciate that the other charges on them when they buy products of secondary industry- such as the charges which will appear shortly in the quotas being placed on knitted tops- can be equated to the same sort of subsidy as the meat export trade receives by the taking off of the meat export charge and the paying for it out of Consolidated Revenue. 
Nevertheless, as the honourable member for Blaxland noted, money is involved. A responsible government such as the present Government will always remember that. I believe that some adjustments must be made in the inspection services because, as the honourable member for Blaxland points out, those inspections cost this country a great deal of money. At the moment a great number of meat inspectors are employed by the Federal Government and a great number are employed by the State governments. This means that meat may be inspected twice, which is unnecessary. We seem to be stuck with that system at the moment. It is quite obvious to me, however, that there must be some rationalisation of the system. As honourable members know, at the moment 2 inquiries are being conducted. I hope that they will pave the way for the rationalising of meat inspections. 
The meat industry employs 30 000 people in the pastoral industry, about 40 000 people in the meat processing industry and at least 5000 people in the service industry- the selling industries. There is no doubt that it is one of the most important industries in this country. It is a very big export industry which has always meant a great deal to our external account. The previous Government begrudged the graziers and the people who work on the land a profit. I cannot countenance that sort of attitude. It is for that reason that I have pleasure in supporting this Bill. I know that its introduction is not before time. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.28)-The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  spoke about the cow jumping over the moon. In my opinion, the legislation before the House represents more a case of the exporter jumping over the producer. I cannot give the legislation my full support because it does not contain sufficient safeguard that the amount saved by the exporter will be returned to the producer once the export levy is removed. Also it gives no guarantee that the removal of the export levy will bring about an improvement in the prices paid for livestock once the export levy is removed. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said that the immediate benefit would be to exporters. Later on he said that it was expected that the maximum benefit would be passed on to the producer. Then he said that the distributors and the retailers had been able to pass on charges which affected them. But the producer has not been able to do this. Further on the Minister said: . . . in lifting this charge the Government is hopeful that to the maximum the benefit will be passed on to producers. 
I believe that as the industry is in such a depressed state, words such as 'expected' and 'hopeful' are not good enough for the beef producer. He is entitled to know what the Government intends to do for him instead of worrying about what charity he is likely to get from the exporter once the export levy is removed. However, I must agree with the Minister that when the export charge legislation was passed in 1973 the world demand for meat was strong and prices for beef were extremely high. Those circumstances are in marked contrast to the present situation in which imports to many of our overseas markets are restricted. In my opinion it is the responsibility of the Government in such a situation to assist the producers, not the distributors and the retailers who, the Minister has informed the House, have been able to pass on the charges. 
On many occasions as a member of the Labor Government's resources committee I attended conferences with the Cattle Breeders Association. On all those occasions the Association pointed out that liquidity was the overriding problem. I have no doubt that the Association made strong submissions to the Industries Assistance Commission that this was the greatest short term problem and the main concern of its members. The IAC report identified this problem and stated that most short term assistance should be focused on that problem. If we examine the Australian Agricultural Council's report of 14 February 1975 we will see that one of its greatest concerns was that 1.5 million head of stock which would normally be slaughtered in 1974 would not be slaughtered but would be carried on into 1975 and their retention would cause difficulty with the maintenance of breeding stock. On page 7 of the February 1975 report it reads: 
In the longer term, Council agreed that Standing Committee should also consider and report on the possibility of developing a beef prices stabilisation scheme in the interest of minimising the impact of fluctuating returns to producers and the consequential effects of such fluctuations throughout the meat chain. 
On page 8 of the Australian Agricultural Council's report of 4 August 1975 it states: 
Council considered that the 2 questions of a beef stabilisation scheme and short term assistance measures warranted immediate consideration. It agreed to set up a working party comprising representatives of State agricultural departments under the chairmanship of  Mr G.  Mackay of the Australian Department of Agriculture to prepare a report for the Standing Committee's consideration at the earliest possible date. Specifically, the working party was required to investigate and advise on the feasibility of implementing on a national basis a system of minimum prices for all cattle sold for slaughter and to consider other possible measures which would help to stabilise producers' returns. 
It is quite obvious when one considers the Cattle Breeders Association submissions and the Agricultural Council reports that they are seeking some form of assistance that will give direct and unrestricted benefit to the producers. They are not seeking assistance for the distributors and the retailers, nor are they seeking some token handback from the exporter once the export levy is removed. Anyone who is of the opinion that the distributors and the retailers are in need of assistance should put forward a case on their behalf. The distributors and the retailers should not be allowed to cash in on the critical situation faced by the beef producers. Meat inspection is a part of the production process and it is natural to expect the industry to meet this cost. Assistance where it is needed should be given in some other form. The Minister has said that the distributor and the retailer are able to pass on the cost, but the producer is not able to do this. This Bill gives no assurance that the producer will benefit from the $20m of taxpayers' money expended on the inspection of beef. This legislation is defended by the argument that the Industries Assistance Commission report on beef recommended the suspension of the charge. On page 35 of the report it says: 
It should not take precedence over other assistance recommendations which are more clearly focused on the needs of specific classes of beef cattle producers. 
In my view all that this points to is the fact that the industry is looking for some form of direct assistance. The Agricultural Council and the IAC have made recommendations that direct assistance plus some form of a stabilisation scheme should be introduced. If we put aside the argument as to whether producers should pay their own inspection costs or otherwise, it is yet to be seen how much of the benefit from the $20m in taxpayers ' money will be passed back to the producer. The only evidence I can find in all these reports pointing in this direction was a suggestion put forward by the New South Wales representatives to the IAC investigation that where there is effective competition among buyers and exporters some of the saving will be passed back to the producer. We all know that there is no effective competition at the present time. As a matter of fact the IAC report itself points out that the extent to which the suspension of the export charge would be absorbed by the middleman is not clear. In submissions to the Agricultural Council the New South Wales representatives said that there will be some benefit if competition between buyers and exporters is effective. It seems to me that everyone is doubtful whether any benefit will now back to the producer under the present circumstances when this legislation is passed. 
As I said before, if we want to help the distributor and the retailer someone should stand up in this House and put a case for them. They should not hide behind the producer and grab the benefit intended for the producer in such a critical period. I believe suspension of the 0.6c per lb imposed to recover the Government's costs in the program to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis and the proposed replacement of that levy with a slaughter levy of $ 1 per head is a much fairer way of applying a levy and it should be supported. However, I must support the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I cannot agree with the Minister and I think the Government should give a clear reason why we have to wait until 1 July before this proposed charge is imposed. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the fact that the Australian Telecommunications Commission is reported to be making a substantial profit in this financial year and in view of the high cost of telephone connections in many country areas and of the general high cost of making telephone calls in country areas, will the Minister consider reducing the inordinate burden on country subscribers? Will he place this matter before the Telecommunications Commission for its investigation and action? 
I am indeed pleased to support the setting up of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory once again. I am pleased also to follow such an accomplished  speaker  and a man who has been such an eminent Minister for the Capital Territory as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  It is very pleasing at this time of night to hear such a marvellous bedtime story. On the general committee system I make just one point: The Government I support, as we all know, is not given to drowning the nation in paper work. As distinct from the former Government, we have cut down drastically on committees and commissions. I read as obligatory bedtime reading recently a book by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in which he went against most of his principles and said that collectivism breeds bureaucracy. 
-No, I did not have any nightmares. He is such a nice man. I was very interested to read this because it seems to me that the number of committees and commissions that were set up and were running at the time we took office was enough to make the mind boggle. One thing I can assure the House is that our Government will be setting up only committees of substance, and I believe that the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is such a committee. 
This Committee is obviously set up for one prime reason- the Australian Capital Territory happens to contain the capital of Australia. From that point of view, it is the property of all Australians and therefore, this Parliament must of necessity play some sort of watchdog role in the development of that capital. Whereas in other towns right across the Commonwealth our Government would always support the point of view that it is the responsibility of the people in those towns to make their own plans within of course the bounds of regulations by statutory authorities, in the case of Canberra it must be largely the responsibility of the people of Australia as a whole to ensure that the development is reasoned and effective. Again this Committee will be a watchdog, as it always has been, to advise the Minister for the Capital Territory so that those reasonable methods of development are adopted. 
The terms of reference of the Committee are set out in 2 clauses, one of which notes that the 
Committee can report on the modification of plans for Canberra. Of course this is an ongoing obligation. Canberra is now a burgeoning city, far greater than Walter Burley Griffin ever dreamed of. I must admit though that the city is a credit to those who have planned it since his demise and since his plan ran out in geographical terms. But it has to be admitted that the city is not without problems, despite the fact that our planners always have been of the very top rank. The problem in respect of the Black Mountain tower is probably one created largely because we have a technology different from that which existed in the days of Walter Burley Griffin. The tower has created all sorts of contention in the population. The problem of building a new parliament house, if that ever occurs, will take a great deal of sorting out and it will not be long tonight before my able colleague the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  speaks on that matter. The present problem in respect of the Burley Griffin Memorial is exercising the minds of the newspaper editors in this city. It should be pointed out that Burley Griffin stated explicitly that he did not want his mountains disturbed. If the memorial does go ahead I hope that he in his grave will not be too offended. 
Apart from the physical matters of the city of Canberra and matters of planning, the Joint Committee also has a brief to examine and report on other matters as are referred to it by the Minister for the Capital Territory or either House of the Parliament. Those other matters are many. The previous Committee dealt at length with the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. One of its recommendations in 1974 was that self-government would be granted to the Australian Capital Territory community. That is still a point of contention. But obviously we are moving some way towards that objective. 
The previous Committee also made recommendations about a great number of other things. It made recommendations on the National Capital Development Commission, the means of education in Canberra, the health system, housing and construction, and other, functions. I would hope that the Committee which we are seeking to establish will look at all those things. Hopefully it will look at a few other matters within the boundaries of the Australian Capital Territory. 
One of the things that exercise my mind a great deal is the level of construction activity in the Australian Capital Territory at the moment. As is well known, construction activity ran down towards the end of last year. It went through one of those situations to which the building industry is prone, that is, a bust after a very solid boom. One of the matters that I hope the Minister will refer to the* Committee is an investigation of the problem of boom and bust in the building industry of Canberra because in boom times it is terribly difficult for people in the building industry to make a profit. It is terribly difficult for tradesmen to make a profit because of over-demand. In bust times it is also terribly difficult for tradesmen and other people in the building industry to make a profit. 
I hope also that the Committee will be able to look at a problem that I have come across in the last couple of weeks, namely, that of marauding dingoes from the southern parts of the Australian Capital Territory. I have been told that since the Labor Government came to power 3 years ago the dingo population in the Australian Capital Territory has increased dramatically. I hope that in the interests of my constituents who live just outside the southern border of the Australian Capital Territory we can be rid of the dingoes completely and forever. 
Apart from the effects that the policies of the Government can have on the Australian Capital Territory I am bound to mention the effects that they can have on the surrounding areas. I have a vested interest in this problem because I am the member for Eden-Monaro. Last year the NCDC put forward a plan to extend the borders of the Australian Capital Territory. That scheme was published, in my view, in a very peremptory fashion. It created a great deal of trouble in my electorate in that people were subject to a great deal of uncertainty as to whether they should get out, whether they would get a reasonable recompense for their land and whether towns would be built right next to their properties. Certainly there was a great deal of speculation. There was money-making by the wrong people. This scheme, of course, was put forward despite the view of a previous Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, chaired I believe by  Mr Daly,  which said that Canberra should have a population of not more than half a million people. 
The people of Eden-Monaro could never see the point of expanding the area of the Australian Capital Territory. We could -never see the point in the refusal by the previous Government to speak on the problem around the table with the New South Wales Government. The refusal was given on very tenuous grounds, but it was nevertheless a very firm refusal to give evidence to a New South Wales inquiry. After all, the land that the NCDC was talking about acquiring was in New South Wales. Certainly consultation is required on matters such as this. I can guarantee that consultation will always be available with my Government. 
I should mention also that population growth within the boundaries of Canberra has great implications for the surrounding region. The land use planning in the surrounding areas will depend greatly on policies for Canberra. Of course the surrounding towns such as Goulburn, Queanbeyan, Gunning and Yass will benefit at times and at other times will suffer because of the growth of the population of Canberra. Personally I want to see that that growth is carried out in an orderly fashion with the right sort of advice that I hope this Committee will always be able to give. 
The surrounding region has a great deal of interplay with the Australian Capital Territory in terms of consumption items in the Australian Capital Territory. At this stage I want to mention to the House- I forewarn the House that I will be speaking about this matter later- that a great deal of milk consumed in the Australian Capital Territory comes from Bega which is in my electorate. I would just like to point out that it is the top quality milk in Australia. At the moment Bega supplies about 40 per cent of the Canberra market. Because of the implications to the Bega people and to the overall milk industry in Australia I want to see that the people of Bega get a fair share of the Canberra market. 
Canberra is one of the finest cities in the world. It is a city of very little visual pollution. The work of the previous instrumentalities which contributed to building up this city was excellent and it is vital that this work should be continued. This Committee will be an important contributor to that continuance. 
-I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. The Minister will recall that in the time of the last Government, Commonwealth funding for migrant children's language training was relegated to a very low priority. What arrangements are being made now for the funding of child migrant language education, particularly for South East Asian migrant refugees who recently entered Australia? 
I rise to support the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill and the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill, because they are most important Bills for my electors and for the whole nation. Of course there are general points that apply to both Bills. In the few words 1 have to say I intend to be slightly more specific and address myself mainly to the superphosphate Bill. Of course we know that the provisions of these bounties is a very emotional issue. It is one of those issues that tends to divide the city and the country. It is one of the issues that gets into the city newspapers regularly. I noticed that when it was announced two or three weeks ago that we would honour our commitment and bring in the superphosphate bounty again according to the Industries Assistance Commission report and continue the nitrogenous fertilizer subsidy, again according to the IAC report, there was a tremendous amount of damaging flak directed at our side of the Parliament. 
I am pleased to know that on this occasion and in this debate Government supporters from city areas will support the Bill. I know that honourable members on both sides of the Parliament will be pleased to see that the division between the city and the country about which I have already spoken two or three times, is beginning to diminish. This is because of the efforts of a party such as mine which represents all Australians. 
As a country member I of course wonder sometimes whether this superphosphate bounty is worth all the trouble. There is great derision about it from the other side of the House. Newspapers, as I have already said, play on the suggestion that people in the country might be getting a bit of money for something. For that reason I sometimes wonder whether from a political point of view we are making a questionable decision in bringing this legislation forward.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I shall stay with reason and I shall plug away at informing the city dwellers as much as I can of the true facts of the matter. 
I suppose one of the unfortunate words in the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill - the provision was introduced some time ago- is the word 'bounty'. I know that we should be talking more in terms of the word 'incentive'. There is an opinion held by many people in the cities who read their newspapers that the Government proposes to subsidise fully the cost of superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers. I think it is most important that we remind those people that what we are proposing to do goes only part of the way and on present costs will provide only about one-sixth or one-seventh of the cost of superphosphate. It is not a straight out handout so that farmers do not have to pay for what they buy; it is an incentive to them to use superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers because they are most important to our national heritage and our national estate. 
Some farmers- I must admit that I have met two or three with such views in my electoratehave become rather cynical about these bounties. They look around and see the prices in the market place at the moment. It was said to me recently by one of them: 'If we put more superphosphate on our pastures in this country at the moment all we would do is increase the herd. We would therefore lower the prices that we get in the market place even further and all we would do is give the consumers a subsidy and in fact the country people would only suffer more. ' I always say to them- I know this to be true- that that view can only be a short term one. In Australia with the sort of management that my Party can provide and with external influences levelling out as they always do in the medium and long term, there will be markets for our products and we would rue the day if our pastures and our agriculture were not brought forward by the correct application of fertilisers to the point where we can cope with those markets when they again arise. 
In fact I am certain that there is a combination of factors that go against any arguments to the contrary and they confirm the conclusion that in Australia we need superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers and in fact we need them more than do most other countries. I do not believe that we need a rigorous cost benefit analysis to show this. I think that the factors are selfexplanatory. For a start, as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has already said, in Australia we have basic deficiencies in our soils. We are living on the oldest continent in the world and it is known that the level of phosphorous in the soil here is lower than that of any other continent. We know that this is a basic characteristic of this country that we have inherited. For that reason alone it would take a great deal of consideration from any government as to whether this basic national characteristic should, as government policy, be corrected. 
Again we have the problem of very severe climatic conditions. We do not have very much arable land. As a percentage of our total country there is not very much land on which we can grow crops and for that matter on which we can graze herds and flocks in any numbers. If the governments that controlled the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers before the time of Christ had had access to supherphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers the national estate of that part of the world would probably have survived. It is up to my Government and to any government of this country to see that our soil, which is the basis of our national estate, survives. 
Some very cogent arguments have been put forward in the LAC report, by other bodies and by other honourable members who have already spoken about the question of the efficient use of resources. It is a fact that a relatively small amount of money outlayed in Australia on superphosphate in particular can increase significantly our production. This would be very cheap maintenance for a very efficient industry. We know that Australia, for instance, largely because of our pastoral improvement programs and because we have assiduously used superphosphate and other fertilisers, rates very highly in the world in terms of rural efficiency. Australia with something like 5 per cent of the work force engaged in primary production manages to produce enough food and enough wool not only to feed and cover ourselves but also to export as much as we use. Against that, Russia with 32 per cent of its people engaged in the same pursuits still cannot feed itself. I put to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the level of our use of superphosphate over the last few years when our level of primary production has increased so markedly is a major factor in our efficiency. 
Australian farmers have been able to increase their results most rapidly because of the use of fertilisers. This again emphasises the point I am trying to make. In 1953 with a work force on the land of 430 000 people we were able to support 274 million equivalent units of stock. In 1973 with fewer than 300 000 people involved on the land we were able to build up that stock level to 483 million units. This was largely because of the policies of previous coalition governments that encouraged people to use superphosphate. 
One of the points that the IAC did not bring out fully enough in its interim report, and which I hope that it looks towards more diligently when the full report comes out, is the question of the drought reserve. Australia has greatly fluctuating seasons. Our soil conditions are a legacy of our climate. If we do not make sure that we keep up the level of superphosphate in the high rainfall areas it can be shown that when the next big drought or any other large drought arrives in this country we will not have the capacity properly to recover. In the western division of New South Wales, for example, where superphosphate has never been used except in very small amounts, there has been a widely fluctuating level in the sheep flock. In 1890, for instance, there were 8.9 million sheep in the western division. In 1969 there were 7.9 million. In the intervening period there were wide fluctuations as the result of droughts. I believe that there is some correlation here between the almost zero level of superphosphate use and the results in other divisions of Australia in which a lot of superphosphate was used. I understand that on the tablelands of New South Wales, for instance, the sheep numbers increased in the same period between 1890 and 1969 from 7 million to 19 million. This division significantly is in an area in which superphosphate was used most effectively. There is a correlation between that level and the results.  (Quorum formed)  It was disgraceful to call for a quorum. It is disgraceful that the members of a major Australian party were not here to listen to what was being said about some of the most important legislation that has been before this House. 
I believe I have advanced some very cogent arguments as to why superphosphate is a most important ingredient in our soils. The $64,000 question now is whether the Government is bound to ensure that the use of superphosphate is carried on. If we look at the justice of the present situation I believe that again the arguments are in our favour. In terms of welfare- and the Labor Party seems to use this area as its argument- I admit that we do not really have very much to say. At the moment people on the land are not making very much money. But in terms of national benefit the welfare argument probably would be better sorted out by the provision of other funds in other ways to the primary sector. The welfare factor does arise but it is not an important one from our point of view. 
The fact is that it is very difficult now for the man on the land to afford to pay for his obligation to the national estate. This is one of the very strong reasons why we believe that the other precedents in this country- the precedents of transport subsidies to Tasmania, subsidies to air travellers, subsidies to students and subsidies to all sorts of groups-justify the payment of this subsidy in the short term to people on the land which will make sure that they keep up the level of superphosphate and nitrogenous fertilisers that our nation needs. 
We have a very strong argument that the most efficient means of support for people on the land is in terms of superphosphate and that the Government owes this to the primary producer. The Government is quite used to paying for other people who get into trouble. As has been pointed out recently by the Industries Assistance Commission, the vehicle industry has been subsidised to the extent of $4,000 a year for each employee. This has been because of the cover of tariffs on that industry, and admittedly it is the tariff argument, which is a second best argument, that is also most cogent from the Government 's point of view. 
I must emphasise that we are talking about the short to medium term. It is hoped that in the medium term primary production will obtain good returns. In the medium term, it is hoped that superphosphate prices will drop; and I note that by 1978 world production will exceed consumption by about 6 million tonnes per annum. That could mean that there will be a drop in price. This Bill honours one of the Government's election pledges which in the short term, and that is what we are talking about, it is pleased to be able to introduce into this House. Honourable members on this side of the House see the problems of all of Australia. I contrast that with the attitude of the previous member for my electorate, who when given a chance to stand up for his electorate and vote for a continuation of the superphosphate bounty voted against it. The Government is reversing the Labor blunder. The man on the land is not looking for charity, despite what the newspapers often tell the people in the cities. Our soil is looking for welfare; our farmers are not. Our farmers are looking for recognition. Through its policies the Government recognises the pensioner, the consumer, the employee, the employer, the manufacturer and the farmer. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before I call the Leader of the Opposition, might I point out to the House that during the calling of a quorum members are not supposed to move within the precincts of the chamber, apart from entering the chamber, going to their places and sitting down. If they move from one part of the chamber to another it is confusing in determining the presence of a quorum. I call the Leader of the Opposition. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen reports in the  National Times,  the  Sunday Press  and the newsletter  Inside Canberra  suggesting that major changes are to be made in senior positions in the Public Service affecting the Treasury, his own Department and the Department of Foreign Affairs? Are those reports correct? 
-I ask the Treasurer a question. He will be aware that many invalid pensioners have been severely disadvantaged in recent years because nursing home fees in all cases other than those charged for intensive care, have not been available as tax deductions for those pensioners. In view of the great financial burden this places on many old people, can the Treasurer, as a member of a government genuinely concerned for the aged, make all genuine fees for nursing of the aged available as tax deductions? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Which body collected the money for the Darwin Appeal. 
What was the total amount of money collected. 
What was the total amount of Government assistance given towards the money collected. 
What has been done about the completion of Darwin reconstruction, in the context of the then Prime Minister's statements at the time of fund raising. 
Who is responsible for the dispersal of funds. 
What amount of funds is left, and what is the proposed dispersal of these funds. 
I wish to speak briefly tonight on a noncontentious issue. I realise that non-contentious issues will probably be the order of the day in the adjournment debate from now on. Tonight I want to speak about something that I know perturbs all of us at times and that is the fact that in Australia we and our children are eating a lot of food which is produced in other countries. I recently obtained from the Department of Overseas Trade a list of imported food items of various types which come in cans or in frozen form, or in the case of cheese in straight off-the-shelf form. Coming from a rural electorate as I do, I am under continuous pressure to try to do something to stop this accelerating rush of overseas foods that seem to be coming in. If one goes to the supermarket these days one can find imported tomatoes and mushrooms- I realise that the Industries Assistance Commission is preparing a report on this- and frozen potatoes. My electorate produces good potatoes. It bothers the potato growers to find that these frozen potatoes are being sold in shops no cheaper than the locally produced ones. 
But probably the biggest problem is the importation of fish. Again, my electorate borders a very big fishing ground with fishing centres such as Eden, Ulladulla and Bermagui. I found last year that there was absolutely no effort by the then Government to stop the flood of fish into Australia that was sending our fishermen broke. As a result I did a small survey of a number of shops. In my home town of Goulburn of the 2 1 or 22 fish and chip shops of various sorts in the main street only one or two were serving fish caught by Australians. 
I knew that people on both sides of the House would be perturbed if they knew this and that is why I have raised the matter. I am also perturbed that in the Parliament House dining room we eat imported fish- and I would suggest that it tastes like imported fish. I want my Government to make sure that the importation of foreign foodstuffs is kept to a reasonable minimum. Many people working on the land in electorates all over Australia are looking at the moment to alternative ways of production. Many of those people could be actively engaged in producing some of these products that our wives are buying. In many cases multi-nationals in a sense are dumping these foodstuffs on our markets from places like Spain, Eire, Argentina, the United States of Amenca and most countries in the western world. I think that in Australia we are looking for self-reliance and good housekeeping. If we cut down our consumption of imported foodstuffs we would do the Australian stomach and the Australian housewife a good favour but probably more importantly we would do a bit more for those much maligned people who are reaching the poverty line in the country- the agricultural people and the fishermen. 
-I am very pleased to be able to speak on the Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill and the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill because the people in the country have been looking forward to their introduction. I am very pleased also that the Bills are being supported on both sides of the House. It would appear to me that the attitude of the Labor Party is very mature and has shown over the past few weeks some mellowing in relation to people on the land. 
-I do not mind being quoted. Certainly the Bills have some interesting points in that they relate to a problem which at some stage, unless it is solved, could create a great deal of difficulty right across the country. The object of the Bills is to raise money for the eradication of diseases of all types. The Bill gives the Government scope to enter into programs for the eradication of diseases as it sees fit. The disease which obviously poses the greatest risk to this country's beef industry is brucellosis. A levy on the basis of $1 per head would collect at this stage between $8m and $ 10m per annum, which is about the amount spent last year by the previous Government on brucellosis eradication. I believe that that amount, whether it comes from the Commonwealth Government, from the State governments or from the beef producers, must be increased rapidly in the next few years. There is great danger in brucellosis, quite apart from its danger to humans. It is recorded that over 70 people die every year in Australia from brucellosis, and that is something we should remember. 
The sterility exists on the other side of the House. Apart from the inefficiency in our beef herds, which is significant because of the effect that brucellosis has in abortions, the main thrust of the problem is that in the future there will be a possibility of knocking out exports of our beef. The honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  has referred to the export of livestock, and his attitude towards that question is becoming well known in this House. At the moment the main area in which brucellosis could affect our fortunes is in the export of meat. That fact has been quoted quite regularly from the Industries Assistance Commission report on brucellosis and tuberculosis. I take it that, because witnesses expressed their fears in this regard, the LAC recognised the problems that will occur with the United States market if we do not eradicate brucellosis in the near future. Certainly the former Australian Department of Agriculture stated evidence that it was the intention of the United States of America to extend a restriction on imports to imported dairy products. The Commission also referred in quite a few places in this report to the danger to beef exports. I quote from the LAC report:  ... it was assumed that failure to eradicate brucellosis would lead to the termination of exports (whether from infected or non-infected animals) to the United States of America. 
I quote again from another part of that report: 
The Commission believes that without eradication of brucellosis at least some dairy and beef export markets may be closed to Australia. 
This Government, a government that cares for industry, should press State governments and people involved in the beef industry to push forward with a full eradication campaign. 
Of course, as the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  said, the question of who should pay arises. Basically the benefits do accrue. If we do not eradicate brucellosis it is the beef industry which will suffer most. The consumer will also suffer but in terms of hard cash the industry will suffer most. I suppose the overall economy also could be said to suffer in that any drop in Australian exports adversely affects our external balance and this has to be corrected by other exports or the cutting down of some imports. Basically I agree that the industry is bound to pay at least some proportion because it is the entity to which most of the benefits accrue. I can see also that the whole industry will benefit, not just the exporters. 
The honourable member for Fraser alluded to the fact that his Party allegedly did a great thing for the beef industry but the idea of putting a levy of 0.6c per lb on export beef for the eradication campaign reflected a rather cynical attitude. The Labor Government was known to disdain our rural export industries. I imagine that this was part of its false way of bringing down inflation by keeping down the local price of beef and other export rural products. The Government I support has seen the light because it decided to levy this $1 a head on the whole industry and it did so because not only the export beef industry but also the internal beef industry and the dairy industry will benefit from the eradication of brucellosis. 
I believe that most people who have anything to do with the export of beef or with people on the land would realise that we must get rid of brucellosis. Having decided in principle to do that there still are many problems unresolved. We know that many States still have not begun a test and slaughter campaign. One of the problems that must be resolved is the proportion that should be paid by the Government in accordance with the grounds I have cited. Obviously people on the land, the beef producers, should pay some proportion and obviously the State governments should pay some proportion. But also, as I said, the Federal Government should pay some proportion. The Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill will raise between $8m and $10m a year at the present rate of slaughter but that will not go very far towards meeting the cost of a full campaign. Last year, at the request of the New South Wales Government, the Federal Government supplied it with $8m but the State Government was able to contribute only about $2.5m towards the cost. The State government was left quite a bit short. The position was that because the New South Wales Government could not see its way to provide the remainder of the funds, the test and slaughter campaign had to be put back again. So there is a problem. What proportion should we pay and what proportion should we encourage the other people in the industry to pay? 
There are still problems involved in the slaughter of the cattle. There are problems with the unions associated with the abattoirs. The problems have arisen because workers in abattoirs are obviously worried about the effects that the slaughter of beasts suffering from brucellosis might have on them. No doubt they are aware of the fact that 70-odd people die each year from the effects of brucellosis. Certainly it is a problem that we have to overcome, hopefully with reasonable consultation between governments and unions. We have to overcome that problem in the near future. The other problem, of course, is the amount of compensation that is payable. If we say that the Government has to provide funds for the eradication of brucellosis - 
I am not quite aware of other problems, but certainly if I had done a veterinary course I would know the answer. I will refer a veterinarian to the honourable member who has just interjected so that he can solve his main problem, which appears to be how to detect brucellosis. I imagine that he talking about brucellosis in female animals. On that basis, I will certainly refer one of my veterinary friends to him in due course. But there is still the problem of the amount of compensation that the Government should provide. In different countries and in fact in different States of Australia, there has been some variation in what people think primary producers should obtain as part compensation for the loss of beasts which obviously is a necessary consequence in an eradication campaign. All these problems I hope will be solved in the near future. They are real problems and they must be solved if we are to maintain our export markets. If the witnesses to the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry- and there were many of them- were telling the truth there is a risk that we will lose the United States market. The United States, of course, has a ready-made rod for us if we do not eradicate brucellosis. Its policy in the past has been to impose hidden import restrictions on our beef when the time has come for it to have a cutback. If we do not get rid of brucellosis in our beef by the late 1980s the Americans will have another rod to beat us with, and that rod really will beat us, I fear. 
I suggest that we should get rid of brucellosis, and that is what I am talking about. 
By an eradication campaign based on test and slaughter. The U.S.A. already has spent of the order of $S00m a year for the last 20 years in its eradication campaign. I understand that the Americans are hopeful of getting rid of brucellosis in that country within about 6 years. At that stage they are quite likely to say: 'Look, we have ideas about restricting imports. You have brucellosis in your country. We do not want imports of your beef. I cannot stress how much it is feared in my electorate that this will happen. The test and slaughter program which has been recommended by the State Departments of Agriculture, by the Federal Department of Primary Industry and by the IAC must get under way soon. Other countries are putting great effort into their programs. I understand that in Canada the test and slaughter campaign has been going on since 1956. In Eire the campaign has been under way since 1966. Of course, it is not likely that we will export to Eire. I mention also the United Kingdom to which we hope to export more beef. Its test and slaughter campaign has been running since 1967. The campaign in the Netherlands has operated since 1958. That campaign is pretty well finished. I might add that the campaign in Tasmania is nearly concluded and the campaign in Western Australia is very close to completion. In the other States in which brucellosis still persists at a level requiring action, we must get stuck into the problem. 
The Government must continue the provision of funds from the levy that it is about to collect. We must encourage farmers to realise the problems that could arise quite rapidly in 1982 or so when the United States of America, as I said, is quite likely to forbid Australia to export beef to that country. We need a greater awareness by farmers of these matters. We need a greater awareness by most of the State Governments. We require further a genuine and concerted effort by the Federal Government to prosecute this campaign for the eradication of brucellosis in Australian beasts. I welcome the fact that both sides of the House agree on the need for this legislation. I support these 2 Bills. Their provisions are marvellous for people in the country who will face a great many problems if we do not get stuck into this campaign. 
Last night I briefly touched on the matter of fish and chips. Today we had a representative of the community of Eden which is on the South Coast, in Canberra for E Day. He, in concert with many people who contacted members on this side of the House, was most disgusted with the attitude displayed in this House this morning. I found that during a period of about 1  Vi  hours I was able to speak with this representative of Eden High School for only a few minutes. I was reminded of the statement I made last night about the problem created by the import of fish and chips. I was most gratified this morning to find that the few remarks I made in a very humble fashion as the member representing people who produce the raw products for fish and chips were mentioned by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service. For that reason several people telephoned me. It is amazing how few people in Australia realise how little of the fish that are caught in our waters we in fact eat. I am delighted to say that after speaking to people from the South Coast today I have discovered that the fishermen of Ulladulla- maybe some honourable members have been to Ulladulla; it is a delightful spot- will soon be selling fresh processed fish in Canberra. I hope that this will be a boon to our parliamentary dining room. 
-Does the honourable member want to sell Australian fish or is he in favour of South African fish? 
I am very serious about this. I imagine that the fish caught in Port Adelaide is not worth eating. 
I am very pleased to be able to speak briefly in the debate on this Aged Persons Hostels Amendment Bill. The problems of the aged will concern Australians more and more in the next few years. This legislation was introduced in the first place by a Liberal-Country Party government. In that regard the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who spoke not very long ago and who has left the chamber, seemed to' be at variance with the facts. The then Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)-  a man with great compassion in this and other fields- brought forward this legislation, recognising the fact that Australia was entering a long period in which there would be an increase in the number of aged persons in our community in proportion to the population. In some respects aged people in the past few years have been advantaged, and so they should be. As productivity increases in our country it is only natural that the aged benefit in some respects. However, as the newspapers point out frequently, in the last 3 years there was a great deal of mismanagement in this country. The rate of inflation from which we have suffered and the consequent running down of fixed incomes of aged people have disadvantaged them. Members of the Opposition should not just take credit for good things that have happened for the aged in the last few years, because not everything that has happened has been good for them. Aged people have suffered in many respects. 
As I said before, this is a long term problem. Since World War II we have had in this country what is called a baby boom and the education system has been strained to its limits. Last Thursday, E Day, many people came to this place to speak to members of Parliament. I suppose that many people throughout Australia realise that to some extent we were frustrated in speaking to them by the efforts of the Opposition. Last week it was pointed out very forcefully that there are still problems in connection with our youth in terms of the provisions of facilities for education. However, as the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  just pointed out, in some areas we are beginning to see the light in the sense that the number of young people in proportion to the population is decreasing and State governments are getting ahead with their school programs. They are catching up. Gradually children are getting better facilities and we are getting the right facilities for every child in school. 
The problem which often is lost sight of and which is increasing is that of care of our aged people. The proportion of our population which will require hostel accommodation or other types of aged persons accommodation is increasing. This, of course, is presenting a massive problem for the Treasury, because as people leave the work force by virtue of their reaching pensionable age the onus on the working part of the population increases. We in this House, I imagine, will deliberate very carefully from time to time on that massive problem facing the Treasury. This Bill and others dealing with aged people relate to the human side. 
I am very pleased, despite the fact that a large number of beds has been provided in hostels in the last few years, that care for the aged is also being de-institutionalised. In the last few weeks I was grateful to be able to visit 2 towns in my electorate where facilities for the aged have been opened in hospitals and people can attend those places on a day care basis. That trend towards de-institutionalising care for the aged is a very human one and I believe honourable members on both sides of the House will support it. 
I believe that the role of voluntary agencies in the care of the aged in Australia has been and will continue to be very important. There is a very Australian attitude that we should look after one another. Voluntary agencies have played a very big part in setting up aged persons homes by various methods made possible by a former Minister, the honourable member for Mackellar. Nevertheless, we have many difficulties to overcome in dealing with this long term problem. At the moment, under the provisions of other Acts dealing with aged people, such as the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act, we have a great finance problem. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  recently publicised the . fact that applications for funds for 900 projects still had not been met. Many of those applications were received last year. Some applications are still coming in. I can think of three or four relating to areas on the south coast of New South Wales in my electorate and another closer to Canberra, near Goulburn. The people concerned already have put aside a great amount of money and are awaiting allocation of government funds. 
The attitude of the previous Labor Government of increasing the proportionate subsidy from $2 to $ 1 to $4 to $ 1 seemed on the face of it a very humanitarian gesture. Of course, the way it turned out was not quite as humanitarian as the Labor Government had hoped because it was struck with budgetary problems. Even though the amount expended on the aged persons programs increased, the cost per building and the cost per bed kept going up so that in fact the $4 to $1 subsidy became a very thinly buttered subsidy. Probably it would be easy to argue that if the subsidy had remained on a $2 to $1 basis many of those 900 projects would have gone ahead, even though, of course, under the $2 to $ 1 system it is necessary to find a greater proportion of funds in the community. But, as I have said, voluntary agencies in Australia have always played a large part in the care of the aged. I think that most people in this country expect to find something out of their own pockets for appeals in their towns that are concerned with care for the aged. 
Another problem that occurred in respect of the $4 to $ 1 subsidy system- I should not impute this to the Labor Party itself- was the fact that because the money was buttered thinly and because there was great pressure from many voluntary agencies to have their projects funded, there was a fair deal of cynicism in the community about the method of valuation. In the last 2 days I have been told of a project at Taralga in my electorate where there was a great deal of cynicism about an existing building that had to be extended under a grant for the aged. This building was valued in their terms at a ridiculously high, amount which meant that the $4 to $1 subsidy would have resulted in a lower amount of money. Maybe this attitude is cynical, but I can appreciate the problem when there is not an unending amount of money available at any stage for any group in the community. 
When one has to look at the total number of beds and applications required to be funded, I imagine that the problem is great if people in all areas of Australia are to get some benefit. This, of course, leads to the proposition, which I think was mentioned by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  that we must look very shortly to the upgrading of the limit for subsidies. Under the legislation that we are debating at the moment the amount available per bed of $1 1,700 plus $2,400 for the land obviously must be increased before too long. It is of no use talking about $11,700 for a bed if in fact it costs $ 1 5,000 this year and will cost $20,000 next year. Of course, under the present Government it is most unlikely that building costs will escalate at anywhere near the rate they have over the last two or three years under the Labor Government. Nevertheless, until we can contain inflation we are stuck with the problem of escalating building costs. I realise that it is necessary for the Government to increase the amount available per bed as soon as possible so that this sort of grant for the aged can be made a sincere one and one that can be taken up by voluntary agencies and others. 
Of course, another possibility that should be looked into by the Treasury and the Minister is that under the conditions of inflation that we are suffering from at the moment- we would presume that even this Government will not be able to contain it completely for a few months- we should be talking also about providing for escalation in costs. Even if the amount per bed is increased we should recognise that the amount would increase further over the normal time of building, and of course we are talking about one year for a reasonable sort of project of this nature. 
To summarise, I would reiterate that the problems of the aged in general, not only the problems brought out and solved in some measure by this Bill, are increasing in this country. We will be speaking in this House about this problem much more often in the coming years. We are approaching the stage reached in Europe where the proportion of the aged is getting greater every year. I would hope that members from both sides of the House will think compassionately in terms of the aged when decisions are reached because those decisions will become more and more important in this country. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for the Australian Capital Territory. He will be aware that the Bega Co-operative Society Ltd has supplied quality milk to the Canberra market on a regular and reliable basis for many years. Can he assure the people of Canberra that in future discussions on market shares for milk producers in the Australian Capital Territory, the cost competitiveness and long term reliability of the Bega milk supply will be given due weight? 
Last week, as honourable members will know, there was an announcement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  of the extension of unemployment benefits to certain primary producers. That announcement was made in the light of great and pressing problems in the primary sector of this country, problems that involve people who were existing and still are existing at a financial level less than that of the dole. It has been a recognised factor in the Australian society over many years that people who cannot look after themselves and who are in the short term in terrible and destitute circumstances should rightly be looked after in those circumstances- again I say in the short term- to a certain extent by the Government. Most of the media applauded the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry last week and there were editorials in the national newspapers which supported aid. However, unfortunately there was a snide and cheap comment in an Australian Broadcasting Commission commentary made shortly after the statement which has caused great dismay in the primary sector of Australia. I shall quote from the comment which was made by a  Mr George  Negus. He stated: 
This week's Press is filled with 2 kinds of stories, one giving graphic, in fact gruesome detail of the lengths to which some men on the land are having to go to protect themselves and their industries, the other an almost daily retinue of announcements of some form or other of Government aid. 
He went on: 
But the decision most likely to precipitate comment is that to grant unemployment benefits to farmers facing financial hardship. As the proposal stands farmers, beef, wool or dairy, who have a net annual income of less than a year on the dole, that is, some $3,562, will be eligible for unemployment benefits themselves. On available figures from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, this would mean that somewhere in the vicinity of 50 000 farmers could front up for $68.50 a week, or  $3 and a half m  a week, or if you like, $ 1 50m a year. 

 Mr Speaker, I put it to you that this is just another case of one section of the Australian work force being put on by cheap commentary. It seems to me that if worthy members of the Australian work force such as shipbuilders- there has been commentary in this House tonight about the benefit- at times deserved benefitgiven by the Government to support the shipbuilding work force- can get due consideration from the Government in time of hardship any other section in similar circumstances also deserves consideration. 
Over several weeks in this House there has been a continued stream of abuse from the Australian Labor Party about any suggestion that this Government give lc to the primary producer. In fact the level of support for primary production given by this Government or by the previous Government is miniscule compared to the level of support given in obvious or in hidden ways to manufacturing industry, including the shipbuilding industry. I deplore the attitude of the ABC and I deplore the fashionable attitude of trendy, cosmetic journalists who single out the man on the land for special consideration and for special jibes when they know that the man on the land has to act, in large degree, independently and cannot act in large and organised groups as can other groups in other industries. I feel that I am echoing the sentiments of many honourable members when I appeal to members on both sides and to the Press to give the man on the land- the worker on the land- as fair a go as we want to give people in other industries in this country. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the widespread criticism which occurred throughout Australia last year when it became known that the possession of the drug marijuana in the Australian Capital Territory is. under many circumstances, exempt from police action. 
Are any changes contemplated in the criminal law in the Australian Capital Territory, in relation to the drug marijuana and to other so-called hard drugs. 
3 ) Will the Government consider increasing drastically the penalties for the pushers of either marijuana or hard drugs. 
In supporting the Wool Industry Amendment Bill and the Wool Tax Amendment Bills I should like to say how pleased I am that the Opposition also has chosen to support the Bills. I should also like to say that I regret very much that because of the present legislative program I shall not be able to explore some of the points that I should like to bring out more fully than I shall be able to do today. Nobody in the industry or, I think for that matter, throughout Australia now doubts the benefits of such a scheme. 
I think it is to the great credit of the previous Labor Government that it continued our initiatives in trying to set up a scheme whereby woolgrowers would have some sort of guaranteed price. Of course some of the things that happened during the time of the Labor Government did not reflect very well on that government, as it turned out. I think that it is rather ironic that today is the anniversary, plus one day, of the Labor Caucus's decision, taken at last on 27 May 1975, to continue the price scheme again. That was in the face of great criticism, which was openly printed, from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who pleaded with Caucus to reduce the support for the wool industry. In my view, that is a reflection on the Labor Party, as was a comment made on the radio program  AM  the following day by the previous member for Eden-Monaro. When asked whether he had lost face as a result of the episode he said that he was not particularly concerned and that people like that are not worth great consideration. He was referring to the farmers who came to Canberra on 27 May 1975 to protest at the very capricious way in which the Labor Government was looking at their livelihoods. Nevertheless, as I said, the Labor Party is supporting these Bills and I am very pleased to know that it is. 
The record of the scheme has been good. A support scheme is necessary. There are inherent problems in the marketing system as people on the land who have to deal with an auction system know all too well. There is a fragmented supply source in that many thousands of wool producers are acting in each case with a single voice. They are working against what sometimes is a rather unified demand source. I am quite sure that the Japanese buyers who come to Australia as a group have knowledge of what other people in the group want to do. I suppose that this is the worst thing about such an auction system when it deals with such a fragmented supply source. The support scheme overcomes some of the imperfections of that marketing system. 
Again, the support scheme helps greatly to reduce fluctuations. People on the land have learnt to realise that great fluctuations militate very much against their livelihoods. Sometimes when prices are high, of course, people think that they have never had it so good and that prices will never drop again, That inevitably happens in respect of rural produce in this country. When 
E rices are high, expectations in some quarters get high. People get out of other industries and into this industry. That then at times turns the high prices back into low prices. It is in regard to these fluctuations that a steady support scheme such as the one we are supporting at the moment is such a good thing. 
This Bill follows our election promise that we would introduce such legislation. As I said, what a difference from last year. One of the things that the Australian people still did not learn properly last year is that the support scheme is not a scheme that encourages the Government to put in a great deal of money and leave it there; it is a scheme whereby the Government lends money. Last week we were very pleased to learn from the announcement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Australian Wool Corporation, which has borrowed roughly $294m from the Government at this stage possibly will be able to repay that loan in the middle of next year if the market conditions remain as they are. I should just like to quote what  Mr Asimus, Deputy Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation, said a week or so ago. He said: 
The corporation has ample funds for the present selling season, and does not anticipate any need to call on the Federal Government for extra financial aid. 
If the market continues its present upward trend, the corporation should enter the next selling season in a strong financial position. 
There are indications of an upturn. The price for 2 1 -micron clean wool at the Goulburn wool sales last week would have been around 280c a kilo. That is 30c over the official support price. For that reason, in recent weeks there have been net disposals from the stockpile of the Wool Corporation. That is one of the reasons why the Corporation is in a far more liquid position than it was. It is in a position where loans from taxpayers, through the Government, look as though they may be able to be repaid. I count this as a very important manifestation of the results of the work of the Wool Corporation because what we can begin to look at now is the environment that is being created in which the next logical steps can be made. As I said,, the Labor Government made the logical step from our previous scheme to the present scheme. Some steps will have to be taken again shortly. 
The first thing that is being talked about in the wool industry right across the country is what the support price will be next year. The figure that is being spoken about in the industry is a minimum price of 300c as against 250c. It is my view that, provided the stand is a reasonable and a strong one, as was the stand taken in the past for support for the wool market, it will not frighten away overseas buyers. It has been said quite openly by overseas importers that they welcome the knowledge that we have a stable scheme in this country. I do not think some sort of increase will frighten away, overseas buyers. They will come to the party. 
It is interesting to reflect that the raw price of wool is really a small percentage of the price of a finished garment. In fact the cost of the woollen suit that I am wearing at the moment given a 20 per cent rise in the wool support price scheme, would increase by only about 2 per cent. So even if the price goes to 300c it will not create a large increase in the price to the consumer of woollen garments. Therefore, in my view, it will not create a situation of a mass exodus out of wool into other fibres. We know that, after many years, wool is beginning to come into its own in competition with other fibres which for the first time are finding cost problems. The growers need the increase this year. They, like people in many other industries, especially the rural industries, are finding themselves in a position where cost increases are outside their control and they need some sort of guarantee by the Corporationhopefully in the new financial year- that the support price will increase. After all, even a 20 per cent rise will only be an average of 10 per cent in the last 2 years. 
The other thing at which we have to look very soon is the long term set up. There have always been misgivings amongst the growers that government control of their wool clip is a socialist step. They fear that government will gain full control of them in the future. It was for that reason that so many growers voted against some sort of acquisition plan in the early 1 960s. At the moment those misgivings are probably unreasonable, but certainly the Wool Corporation is beginning to look to the day when it will be able to stand on its own feet. When the Government is paid back I hope that the powers of the Corporation can be widened so that the Corporation can make more of its own decisions on its own price support level. I hope that at that stage it will be able to borrow all its money from the banks. It has a current overdraft limit at the moment of $30m which, incidentally, is not now being used. The Government will, of course, have to take great care as lender of last resort, that when the Corporation has wider powers the Corporation is looked at very closely in its day to day and year to year workings. Certainly we are approaching the stage where the Corporation should get more teeth and be able to stand on its feet more and more. The 5 per cent levy that has been paid by growers since the Corporation was established and which is the subject of one of these Bills is building up to a sizable bank account which can be used in such a way that growers will feel they have more say. Stockpiles overseas which may further stabilise the industry also will have to be looked at in the giving of more teeth to the Corporation. 
There is a glimmer of light in the industry. The cost rises in the industry are beginning to abate and this is very much due to the policies of my Government in an overall national sense because we are trying very hard to pull down inflation. That is beginning to work. On the other hand the product price is beginning to rise and these 2 indicators together are showing us that there is a glimmer of light in the industry. I hope that there will be an increase in the support price soon because wool growers have suffered terribly on average over the last 20 years and they are, after all, very hard working Australians. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government yet made a decision on the future of the Children's Commission? 
Can the Treasurer tell the House whether public reaction to last week's Budget indicates widespread support by the people of Australia? 
I am following about 5 minutes behind the member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who spoke on a matter relating to families. I want to speak on that subject also. Tonight in speaking to the Budget the member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  and I must add in parenthesis after hearing what he said there is no prospect for Prospect, the learned doctor- doctor of neither mathematics nor logics I would presume- made some wild assertions about family allowances. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro that during an adjournment debate a member is not allowed, under Standing Orders, to refer to the subject matter of a debate which has occurred in the House earlier that day. If the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is going to cover the subject matter remarks of the honourable member for Prospect in the Budget debate, he will be out of order. 
-I will not do that. I will speak about family allowances which were announced in May this year. There has been some misapprehension among members of the Opposition about who will benefit and who will not. I should like to read the actual figures of benefits related to the pre-family allowance and post-family allowance. A family with one child will be 80c per week worse off; a family with 2 children will be 30c better off; a family with 3 children will be $1.40 better off; a family with 4 children will be $2.25 better off; and a family with 5 children will be $3.85 better off. That is my case,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
The Australian population has still shown a great propensity to have children. The member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  has thirteen, I believe. Frivolity aside, the family allowances are a most important innovation. Women in my electorate have taken it wholeheartedly and welcome it greatly. If one were to be callous, I suppose there is an economic problem that we do not know about yet. We do not know whether the family allowance to be given to womenfolk in general will be saved or consumed. From that point of view there is a question mark about its actual effect on the economy, but certainly as a social measure it is a great innovation and it is another pointer that shows that the Government thinks about people. The mothers will remember this in the next election. I hope that people will not continue to denigrate the family allowance in the way that has been done, and done again tonight, because the figures that I have quoted are accurate. 
-In common with so many other speakers on the Government side of the House, I am very pleased to speak in support of the 1976-77 Budget. At the same time I would add, for obvious reasons when one sees the amendment, that I am bound to speak against the amendment. It must surely be one of the most frivolous and tongueincheek amendments to be put to this House for some time. It is curious that the Opposition should speak so virulently against the Budget when of course it realises what a good Budget it really is. In fact, it seems to me from the quality of Opposition speeches and the content of them that the Opposition is eating its heart out at the moment. For a party which is supposed to represent the working people of Australia- an anachronistic description of the Australian Labor Party, as most Australians would now agree- the degree of humane social reform instigated by this Budget by the supposed capitalists and followers of big business pre-empts so much of the sort of reform that many Australians were hoping for from the previous Government. The Budget also shows that we now have a government in this country that knows how to manage. 
The options open to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in the framing of this Budget were in a sense very frightening. Should he do what some eminent economists had advocated, namely, budget for a zero deficit? Should he spend money on various programs to such an extent that the deficit would be of a similar order to the deficit eventually provided for in the Hayden Budget. Should he be reasonably tough on spending programs and through efficiency keep the deficit somewhat lower than last year but nevertheless at a very high level in traditional terms, thus creating other problems in respect of the financing of that deficit? The options were all tough. All the sweet options that had normally been available had been excluded because the Whitiam Government had already spent so much of our money, had already placed our nation in great debt. 
Since the election of December 1975 many people in my electorate of Eden-Monaro have told me, and told me earnestly, that it is so important that the Government not lose its nerve at this juncture. Men and women who work in the retail industry, the rural industry, the construction industry, the tourist industry and the Public Service have said to me that it is very important for Australia to get back on its feet, for us to wrestle with inflation and bring it back to a level that is acceptable to the men and women of Australia. That awareness is probably a relatively new thing in our country. There has been over the years a great deal of apathy towards political events. Not so to such a great extent any longer. There is a very good awareness of politica events through a widespread cross-section of our community. My constituents in EdenMonaro have indicated strongly to me since the Budget that, the fine print and the minor reallocations of emphasis as between categories of expenditure apart, the 1976-77 Budget demonstrates clearly that the Government has not lost its nerve in its endeavour to put Australia back on its feet. Indeed, the Budget has been extremely well accepted right across our nation. 
The Canberra Press Gallery, of course, looks for controversy, but it is very interesting to see that it has found very little to criticise in the Budget except, I must admit, the question of funding for Aborigines. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam)  castigated the Government for the apparent reduction in expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. Without expanding that question any further, I merely reiterate that such criticism is shallow if not dishonest. It was very clearly stated by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  at the time of the Budget that further funds would be available but would be subject to the review of spending to be reported on shortly. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  publicly reiterated this only last weekend at Wilcannia. 
The overall absence of controversy in the Budget, however, demonstrates clearly to me that the Budget has followed closely the will of the people. This is a pleasant change from the Labor years. As I stated a few moments ago when I pointed out the difficulties of the options open to the Treasurer, the Budget is not without its departures from the ideal. It is impossible to fund all requests. But as I also said, Australians recognise good management. Australians realise that they can get from the Government only what they are prepared to pay for in tax. This is one of the very big reasons that the electorate voted so confidently for the Liberal and National Country Parties last election. 
I referred earlier to the frivolous nature of the Opposition amendment. The 5 points of the amendment all bear a cursory glance but they all demonstrate how insincere the Opposition must be at this time. I shall mention only briefly one of the 5 points. The amendment states that the Budget pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries. How arrogant! How untruthful! It has been a piece of 
Labor Party jargon for some years now that the Liberal Party plays with people 's jobs as if those people were pawns. That jargon has never been supportable, and it is absolutely untrue. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  when he was Minister for Labor early in the Labor administration- some time before he was sacked- kept harping about a statement made by the present  Speaker  when he was Treasurer that 'we have achieved what we set out to achieve'. That brief quotation taken out of context has been used to beat the drum at Labor rallies for a long time. It has been demoted to the level of the jargon of the Labor Party, and it has been quoted constantly out of context. 
The real test of the attitude of those on the Government side of the House towards unemployment is our record. The people of Australia know our record. They know that unemployment reached 3 per cent of the work force during only one month during the 23 years of government by the Liberal and Country Parties when previously in power and that was almost 15 years ago. Unemployment in those 23 years was as low as 0.77 per cent of the Australian work force, and for year after year it was at the level of 1 to 2 per cent. In fact, 2 per cent unemployment was always considered to be high by most Australians in that period. The Labor Government took very little time through its mismanagement and unsound policies to promote the level of unemployment to 5 per cent. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  when Treasurer stated on 9 September 1974: 
Action by the Government to slow inflation will produce unemployment and that is a fact however unpalatable that must be faced by the Government and by the people. 
Unemployment at its present level is a terrible and frightening fact. As distinct from the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who on several occasions is recorded as saying that his Government could do nothing about unemployment, the Government now is grappling with the problem, and through sound management policies shown in this Budget we are solving it. I do not propose to comment further on the Opposition amendment. The other 4 points are just as frivolous as the allegation regarding the Government's attitude to unemployment. 
One of the cruel inheritances of the present Government from the previous Government was record inflation. It is a difficult but inescapable paradox at present that at a time when unemployment is high and therefore confidence is required in the business sector so that jobs can again be created, inflation will dash any artifically stimulated recovery. The Deputy 
Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has referred to this already tonight. The Opposition, especially through its spokesman on the economy, has repeatedly alleged that the Government should have run a very much higher deficit. I imagine that that spokesman would be contemplating his higher deficit being funded by the printing of money. I remind the brains of the Opposition that printing money at this stage of our recovery would be patently stupid economics. Of course, it would be a very simple solution for the Treasurer to provide a stimulus to the economy by that medium, but the recovery created and the jobs provided would be very short lived indeed. The printing of money waters down the hard earned incomes of Australians, and in the present context would have no other lasting effect than an increase in the rate of inflation. The detrimental flow-on effects of inflation would also be increased. 
I speak of interest rates, which must find their level at a high point in a time of high inflation. I speak of the capricious and damaging effects of inflation on people on fixed incomes, on people with savings in liquid form, on all people involved in industries where the selling price is controlled by overseas markets. I speak of confidence in the investing and productive sectors. We must remember that without confidence in those sectors the cycle of job creation cannot produce meaningful results. It sounds almost trite these days to repeat that inflation is the number one public enemy. Any person with one jot of experience as a practical or theoretical economist must allow that fact. We know it is an unfortunate fact, but it is a fact. How easy it would have been for the Treasurer to lose his nerve and bow to the thoughtless opinions of some members of the Opposition. They want to see policies that create greater inflation, and without spending time in this speech to prove the correlation, that would cause a needless increase in unemployment. 
At the same time that the Treasurer was acting against inflation as a responsible Treasurer- the first responsible Treasurer of the last four Treasurers- he was still able to introduce revolutionary social measures. They prove the humanity of this Government and its strong relationship with the working people of Australia. Most of the measures that benefit the average Australian have been touched upon in other speeches. I should like to reiterate praise for two or three measures which are of particular interest to my electorate of Eden-Monaro. The firm proposal to index pensions is a demonstration of sincerity. It is of course the fulfilment of the Government's election promise. Further, the additional reform of removing the assets portion of the means test for pensioners will be of great benefit to many people in my electorate. A substantial number of people happen to own property from which flows no income, especially at the present time of rural recession, and a high proportion of those people will now be able to obtain some income from the taxpayer and therefore live their lives with some degree of dignity. Since the Budget was brought down, I have been able to write to several constituents who live in retirement areas on the south coast of New South Wales and who have had problems eking out a meagre income in order to pay their bills. They will now be able to obtain a pension. 
I also mention the income equalisation deposits which have been made available for primary producers. I should say at this juncture that I am hopeful that the system which has been introduced, provided any problems which may arise can be ironed out, can be extended further as economic conditions allow to other forms of industry where incomes normally fluctuate. For instance, the construction industry is one industry of which I have been a part for quite some years. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has cried crocodile tears for the construction industry. What would he know about the construction industry? It has always been noticeable that publicly listed construction companies, which have to show their accounts to the public, usually have wildly fluctuating income, and it is not difficult to show why that occurs. I want the principle of income equalisation deposits extended to that industry in due course. Income equalisation deposits will assist primary producers at this stage to more sensibly plan their expenditure. It has been patently obvious over the years that in times of high income in the rural sector, albeit short lived, producers are often forced to spend money inefficiently on tax deductible improvements to ameliorate the sudden tax and provisional tax problems. 
I refer also to the reforms that have been introduced in this Budget in relation to death duties. Death duties are a great burden to the families of people in all walks of life and they have a particularly vicious effect in the rural sector. We in New South Wales realise, of course, that by far the greatest proportion of death duties is collected by the State Government, and we expect the Premier of New South Wales in his forthcoming Budget to honour his recent election promise to eliminate death duties between surviving spouses. For its part, this Government has made a solid move towards easing the death duty burden. In broader terms, it can be said accurately that the Government is now paying death duties on the Whitiam estate. At the time of the death of the Whitiam Government we were left with massive death duties to pay and we found that the assets which were available to pay those death duties had been frittered away. Despite the fact that we are not related in any form to the Whitiam Government, we are nevertheless caught with the problem of paying those death duties. 
The people of Australia realise the tremendous difficulty that faced the Treasurer in preparing this Budget. The Treasurer has walked his tightrope with great ability. The tide of irresponsibility of the previous socialist Government has been turned back. The old myth that a socialist government is more humane and oriented towards the needs of people has been exploded. I am constantly reminded of the old quotation that if you are not a socialist before you are thirty you have no heart, and if you are a socialist after you are thirty you have no brains. The first part of that quotation has been proved completely wrong. The previous Government showed that any flirting with socialism is fraught with danger, whether one is a businessman, a wage earner, a pensioner or a person disadvantaged in any way at all. No wonder the average dinky-di Aussie sees this Budget as one which was framed in extremely difficult circumstances but framed for the good of our people. I wholeheartedly support the Budget and I treat the amendment in the same way in which I am sure it was framed. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen reports that at the Australian National Cattlemen's Council seminar in Brisbane on 4 August  Sir John  Egerton, a director of Qantas, stated that Qantas does not buy Australian beef for its kitchens anywhere in the world outside Australia because of what he calls the poor quality control and deceptive labelling of Australian beef? Is  Sir John's  statement true? If so, can the Minister do anything to have the situation corrected? 
On 2 occasions in the last week of sitting there was discussion during the adjournment debate about family allowances. I am afraid that there are some flaws in the Labor Party, difficult though it may be to recognise the fact. One of the mathematical flaws in the brains of the Labor Party appears to be in the mind of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  As I said when I had an opportunity to speak about family allowances, I do not really think that there is any prospect for Prospect. On the night after I had made a statement about the net gains to families due to the very forward thinking family allowances, the honourable member for Prospect was very rude about my engineering training and claimed that as a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties he probably had a great deal to offer. I am certainly pleased that he is a member of that Committee because maybe he will learn a little about arithmetic. 
He attacked what I said about the net effect of family allowances. I feel very seriously about the fact that family allowances are one of the greatest social reforms to have been effected in this country for a number of years. In working out his arithmetic the honourable member for Prospect introduced a red herring. He introduced some hypothesis that rebates for dependants this year would have been indexed if they had not been removed. This is an absolute red herring. If the honourable member was prepared to introduce that red herring he should have been honest enough to introduce also the read herring of tax indexation which will have pumped more than $ 1,000m into the pockets of the wage earners of this country in the next financial year. 
One thousand million dollars. The people of Australia have not realised the effect of tax indexation, but they must do so because it is a great deal of money. But even with the red herring removed, the arithmetic of the honourable member for Prospect was still bad. He had not read the tax scales of the Hayden Budget. He was under some strange misapprehension that for every child of a family there was a $200 rebate; he said that in his speech. There is a $200 rebate for the first child and a $ 1 50 rebate for each succeeding child. I presented the figures. They are printed in Hansard and they are well known in my electorate. I can tell honourable members that the people in my electorate, especially the women, are very much aware of the family allowances contained in this latest Budget. I shall not go right through the figures for this member of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, the honourable member for Prospect. I simply reiterate that in my case, with 5 children, I lost $800 in tax rebates, which is $15.40 a week. I also lost the old child endowment of $8.25 a week. On the other hand my wife will gain $27.50 a week. If the honourable member for Prospect cares to add up the figures he will find that in my case with 5 children- city members probably do not quite realise that there are still a lot of fertile people in the country- we will gain $3.85 a week. I wish the honourable member for Prospect would not engage in such mendacious statements as he made last Thursday week. I wish that he would not talk about engineers in the most disparaging way that he does 
There is another lawyer who cannot add up either. 
-Of course we did. There was no rebate this year. The honourable member knows that. As I have said, honourable members opposite also refuse to talk about tax indexation, which is a very material thing. 
If there is one thing that is interesting about the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  it is that he can talk. He wants the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to come home from overseas to listen to the diatribe that we have heard from honourable members opposite this afternoon. The Australian Labor Party has set out this afternoon to try to make us the champions of apartheid in the eyes of the intellectual Left, which is that Parry's main support. It is an absolute red herring to try to brand honourable members on this side of the House as the people who want to support apartheid or the South African regime. I want the people of Australia who are listening to this debate to get it into their heads that the Labor Party, as evidenced in issues that it has brought up in the House lately, is trying all the time to throw crumbs to those of its intellectual Left and is not worried about the working people of Australia, who want it to get down to being a fair dinkum and reasonable Opposition in this Parliament. 
The Labor Party has again raised this afternoon the issue of racially selected teams. I deplore the principle of selecting teams on a racial basis, as do all honourable members on this side of the House. The racist overtones that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  spoke about are not part of the policy of the Liberal Party of Australia. In contrast the Labor Party is a Party of double standards, as the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  pointed out a few moments ago. The members of the Labor Party are the ones who condone racist policies in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. People in this country still remember that the Labor Party is the Party that commenced the so-called White Australia policy, the Party that made people frightened of having kanakas in this country and the Party that said that bringing in people with a different coloured skin would prejudice the precious jobs of white people. The roots of the Labor Party are in racism. Many of the elderly people in Australia do not forget that. 
The attitude of the Labor Party towards Aborigines at this very moment smaks of double standards. We saw on  Monday Conference  last night the sort of stirring up that is going on by the intellectual Left with Aborigines. We can see from this and from the speeches that members of the Opposition have made in this House on the Budget that the Labor Party is still aiming at stirring up racial differences in this country. Who are honourable members opposite to try to set us up as the champions of apartheid? 
The word 'connivance' is mentioned in the matter of public importance. It is said that the Australian Government is conniving with the New Zealand Government. Honourable members opposite are saying that we are in complicity with the New Zealand government. They are implying tacit acceptance of what the New Zealand rugby team has done. I would venture to say that not a single member on the Government side has said that the New Zealand people should send sporting teams away and play against teams in South Africa that are selected on a racial basis. There is not connivance on this side of the House. The accusation that there is connivance is an utter smear. It is the tactic of a party that has run out of backbone. Let us look at the record of the statements that have come from this side of the House. A statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs reads: 
In line with its general attitude towards the apartheid system, the Australian Government firmly opposes racial discrimination in sport. The maintenance of sporting contacts with South Africa will depend on that country's willingness and ability to move away from racial discrimination in sport. 
That is plain enough. Another statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 4 March reads: 
The Government is opposed to racial discrimination in sport. But if our objective is not merely to express moral indigation but to help end the discrimination, we have to consider how this will best be achieved. Is our objective better furthered by total boycott of sporting contact with South Africa or by permitting contact subject to reasonable conditions which would encourage change? While we recognise that a case can be argued for a total boycott, this Government feels that the second approach will be more constructive. 
The attitude of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is as follows: 
Sportsmen from South Africa will not be allowed to enter into this country if they represent sporting clubs whose membership reflects a policy of apartheid. In fact individual sportsmen may only be considered if they do not purport to represent South Africa or a specific club there whose membership reflects apartheid. 
Our position is quite clear. We are as strongly opposed to apartheid as the responsible members, if there are any, in the Labor Party. Who are we to say that New Zealanders cannot pass through Australia? Do we want to stop them from going home? If we said they could not land at an Australian airport in a Qantas jet, do honourable members opposite think they would not be able to get home? Do they think that sort of gesture would make one jot of difference to the apartheid policy in South Africa? It would be a good thing for the Labor Party to remember that the New Zealanders have a very responsible attitude to racism. New Zealand is one country that may be pointed at as having genuine racial harmony. As the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development pointed out, there were 7 Maoris in the New Zealand rugby team that went to South Africa. I might just add that I would not have wanted to go with that team and play against the Springboks. The team had 7 Maoris. Does that indicate that the New Zealanders went to South Africa to encourage apartheid? 
Who are we to ban next from landing at our airports? Are we to ban all New Zealanders because they come from a country that sent a sporting team to South Africa? Are we to ban all Russians because Russians have demonstrated over many years that they have a very solid racial prejudice against Jews? Are we to stop all Iraqis? Where will the members of the Labor Party who raise this issue stop? When will they start talking about ways of doing things? We do not want words on this issue, and we do not want selfrighteous indignation. We need action on racial harmony. We want quiet and human attitudes encouraged. The Labor Party might learn a great deal from recent events in Northern Ireland, where quietly and with genuine love and understanding the women of Northern Ireland have begun to tear up the attitudes of man against man in that country. 
Accusing a party like the Liberal Party, which has a genuine abhorrence of apartheid, of being the champion of apartheid is an absolutely false, misleading and smearing method of going about business in this House. There was only one thing in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition that is worth supporting and that is his support for the efforts of  Dr Kissinger  in South Africa at the moment. I just wonder what  Dr Kissinger  thinks of the Leader of the Opposition. The only thing that the Leader of the Opposition said that is worth commenting on, apart from pointing out that his speech was a straight smear on the attitudes of the Liberal Party, is the reference to  Dr Kissinger.  The rest of the speech was based on the false premise that the Government is conniving in the support of apartheid. It was also based on the eagerness of the Labor Party to throw crumbs to an absolutely misguided intellectual Left which has little interest in the love and understanding between races that we on the Government side believe in and are working towards. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services the following question, upon notice: 
What departments have substantial administrative sections located outside Canberra that are not necessarily required to be located in their present positions. 
How many people are employed in each of those departments in those offices outside Canberra. 
What departments are likely to have substantial numbers of offices relocated to Canberra in the near future. 
What departments occupy rented space in Canberra. 
How many persons are employed by the Government in rented space in Canberra. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will be aware that the method of fishing with monofilament and multifilament nets is seen as being completely irresponsible by most fishing nations and is in fact illegal in New South Wales waters. In view of the serious potential danger of these nets to the marine environment, will the Minister ban their use in Commonwealth waters? 
-It is indeed pleasing to hear from the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that Australia will become the last bastion of democracy.  His  words are in sharp contrast to the words of his leader and in sharp contrast to the actions of his leader in the last few months of last year. I have only a short period in which to speak and I should like to raise again a question which I raised during question time. It relates to the fishing industry. In my electorate of EdenMonaro we have a very large fishing industry with 3 very substantial fishing ports- Ulladulla, Bermagui and Eden- apart from other smaller ports. A very serious question is confronting the fishermen in New South Wales at the moment and that is the question of whether or not monofilament nets should be allowed in any waters in Australia. Monofilament nets would be a thing that honourable members in this place, apart from a few of us, I suppose, would know nothing about. They are nets made of non.degradable material. The material is invisible in the water. For that reason it is very effective for catching fish. There is no doubt that at first look fishermen would want to rush in and buy those nets and take them out and they would probably increase their catch. 
The reason I am so keen to have these nets banned is the long term effects they will have on the marine environment. What can happen is that bits might break off and just float in the water. What happens then is that fish continue to get caught in the nets, never get harvested by humans and, maybe, get eaten by sharks. Nevertheless there is a continuous harvesting of fish remaining dead in the sea forever. That is the great problem that such nets cause. There has been substantial evidence that that is in fact what does happen. Not very long ago a large length of net was found off Wollongong by fishermen. Many dead fish were entangled in it. The Victorian Government which I fear has an obscurantist approach is having some trouble in seeing the arguments put forward by the fishermenthe people who know about fishing and the people who invariably are great environmentaliststhat these nets militate against the best interests of the fishing industry in Australia. I believe that all major fishing nations except France have banned monofilament nets. In all those nations the truth has been seen and those nets have been banned. As far as I am concerned monofilaments nets must be banned in Commonwealth waters. That is the reason I asked the question of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  this morning. I am very pleased he is doing everything he can to get the facts on this matter. But I assure the House that the facts are that monofilament nets are against the long term and short term interests of the fishing industry in Australia and of our marine environment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
With due respect to the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  his speech did sound like a dose of cathartic. I would like to speak very briefly about the federal grants to local government which were announced in basis on 20 May and whose confirmation at last found its way by telegram yesterday to the local government areas in New South Wales. In my electorate, which encompasses 17 local government areas, the results have been extremely good. I was notified today- the local government areas were notified yesterday- by an incomprehensible telegram from the New South Wales Government. Unfortunately, the New South Wales Government is attempting somehow to gain political capital from money which is being granted in good faith by the Federal Government with very little show and with great humility. We on this side of the House recognise that we get our money from taxpayers. There has been political capital, apparently, because the telegram sent by the New South Wales Government is very obscure. It is not very clear what is federal money and what is being given under the local government grant which the New South Wales government is pledged to give to local government in that State each year. There is extreme confusion among local councils in New South Wales as to what is federal money and what is State money. Of course, I realise as do all members on this side of the House who represent electorates in New South Wales, that 90 per cent of those funds which were relayed by telegram yesterday are from the Federal Budget. It is a shame really that the State government should attempt to get credit by claiming that it is taking money from State taxpayers and giving it to the people in New South Wales when, in fact, we had to go through the terrible process of taking the money from federal taxpayers and giving it to the people in New South Wales. Nevertheless, as I said in great humility, we are very proud that there has been such a great increase in funding for local government in untied grants from the Federal Government this year. I can certainly say that local government councils in New South Wales are extremely pleased with the result. For example, the shire of Mumbulla in my electorate suffers greatly because it is 78 per cent State forest. The shire always has great trouble in making ends meet from the ratepayers money it collects. From what I can gather federal funding for the shire this year has increased from about $50,000 to about $ 1 10,000. That is an extremely important increase for the people in the area because they live in the bush. They are extremely hard put in these times of distress in the rural economy to make ends meet. It was rather interesting to hear today the mumblings of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  about the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations. I must admit his speech appeared to be a rather grasping, doctrinaire speech as usual. He was trying to make out that the Federal Government had done nothing for local government. That is a terrible thing to say in light of the facts. Local government in my area knows that the Federal Government is a true federalist Government. It is a refreshing change from the Whitlam Government. The academics- the honourable member for Grayndler or for the United Kingdom or wherever he comes from is a member of that clan- do not look upon federalism as being a reasonable approach to government in Australia any more. But I assure him and his dad that federalism is on the way back in under our Government. It is something we believe in. It is something which is terribly relevant in the world of local government in my electorate. If the honourable member for Grayndler cares to look around the bush and at people who work for their living with their hands, he will find that local government appreciates very much this great increase in grants from the taxpayers money that it has received from the Federal Government this year. 
It is indeed pleasing to get a chance at last to speak on grievance day about a matter of great concern in my electorate of Eden-Monaro. It was quite frustrating, I must admit, 2 weeks ago when the whole of the grievance day debate was successfully blocked by the Australian Labor Party at a time when my problems were becoming very evident. I can assure the House that the problems have not gone away. My electorate adjoins the Australian Capital Territory. It is in a unique position in the sense that the A.C.T. has a great deal of social intercourse and trade with my electorate. Of course, there are some good things and some bad things about that very fact, and I am the first to admit it. In some ways the fact that we have 200 000 people living on our border in the Australian Capital Territory benefits us. 
The Australian Capital Territory people provide some markets for my primary producers and fishermen, although most of our produce goes elsewhere- in fact most of it is exported. The A.C.T. also provides a certain amount of business for my electorate in the tourist areas along the coast and in the skiing resorts, which I am told by the good skiers are the best in the southern hemisphere. The Canberra people can get some deal of satisfaction at the same time as they are helping the businesses and the tourist industry of my electorate. In the Australian Capital Territory the biggest industry in Australia, the Australian Public Service, provides direct employment for a certain number of my people in Queanbeyan. I understand that about 25 per cent of the work force in Queanbeyan travel to Canberra each day, and of course that is of some use to Queanbeyan. The converse is also true. At a time such as now when there are certain stringencies on the Public Service, for very good reason, the reverse applies, and the fact that there has been a boom in Canberra has created the reverse problem of unemployment in Queanbeyan. 
Nevertheless, despite the fact that the Australian Capital Territory in some ways is good for my electorate, in balance it is probably bad. There has been a long term relocation of growth away from my electorate towards the rather false impetus that has been created by the A.C.T. In fact, I wonder sometimes whether we have had reverse decentralisation in that some of the life blood of my electorate has been sucked back towards this artificially created region in the A.C.T. When the proposal came forward under the Labor Administration for the borders of the Australian Capital Territory to be expanded shivers of worry ran down my spine. It looked to me as though the proposal of the Labor Party would create a greater expanding business force and work force in the A.C.T. which would further suck the life blood out of my electorate. The city of Goulburn, which is the oldest provincial city in Australia and is located only 60 miles from Canberra, has experienced a steady decline in terms of growth in the past few years as the Australian Capital Territory has grown. Numerous industries have relocated from Goulburn, which is a fine city, because of the special benefits that obtain in the A.C.T. I often wonder whether, if it had been possible, even the Anglican Church and the Roman Catholic Church would have taken down the 2 priceless cathedrals in Goulburn and moved them to Canberra. We are very pleased that they have no chance of doing that. 
Further to the long term relocation of growth towards the Australian Capital Territory there are a number of other things I would like to mention briefly. The tourism of which I spoke a minute or so ago is not all good. The power costs of people on the South Coast are artificially high because of the very high demand factor in peak periods. The drain on services in those towns is quite damaging at times to local government. We find that the sewerage resources are stretched to the absolute limit during the Christmas period. Last Christmas there were some medical problems on the South Coast because the sewerage facilities just could not cope with the very large influx of people. The medical problem raises its head every Christmas. In Narooma, for instance, there is a doctor who has been working very hard this year but who cannot get help at the moment. When people come down to spend their hardearned Public Service cash at Christmas time they will stretch the facilities of my electorate to the absolute limit. The retirement areas in my electorate are also stretched. I refer to the aged people's homes. We are always having to provide aged care facilities in my electorate and to ask the Federal Government for assistance in this regard. We find that many of the people who go to those places retire from the Public Service in the Australian Capital Territory. 
There is a heavy drain on the raw materials in my area. We do not mind that. We do not mind accepting a certain amount of royalties for those raw materials. But the heavy traffic on the roads creates special problems for local governments and the State Government. In fact, in a survey by the South Eastern Regional Advisory Council titled  Roads of Regional Significance, Trunk Road  57- that is the road from Canberra to Batemans Bay which people from Canberra use a great deal- it was found recently that between 60 per cent and 65 per cent of traffic on the road is generated by the population of the Australian Capital Territory and that this volume of A.C.T traffic will grow. That is evident by the fact that the minimum current projection forecast for the A.C.T. population provides for a doubling in the next 25 years. The report said: 
Given that the projections quoted are correct, the A.C.T which, at present, represents two-thirds of the total Regional Population, will be at least four-fifths of the total within the next 25 years and given . . .Vehicle Volumes per person remain with present day accepted levels, then the traffic generated will also double, rating this road even more important to the A.C.T. than at present. 
Roads such as Trunk Road 51 to Batemans Bay cannot be wholly financed by local and State governments. The New South Wales Government accepts a certain percentage of revenue from the Commonwealth. It is a greatly increased revenue this year, but it is still kept in the position of a percentage of revenue. It seems to me that because of my region, in particular, the New South Wales Government should perhaps have a reconsideration of this percentage in the same way as under traditional terms South Australia and Tasmania receive specialised treatment. The roads in my area are knocked about terribly by the heavy trucks that come in and out of the Australian Capital Territory to fuel the growth of that big area. Certainly local government in my area is finding it very hard to service the people of Canberra. 
It should also be remembered that the people of Canberra get other goodies such as cheaper bread, cheaper cigarettes, no stamp duty on the sale of cars, cheaper liquor licences and cheaper electricity. That is not to mention the special facilities in the schools, the medical facilities and the recreation areas. I am not making these points lightly. This point that the Australian Capital Territory is draining my electorate, giving back a certain amount but not anywhere near the cost to my electorate, is a very important one to me and to the 65 000 people who elected me. The fact does not go unnoticed in Queanbeyan which is just across the border where my constituents provide, at their cost, so many of the prerequisites of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. There has not been an honourable member for Eden-Monaro for some time who has appeared to be genuinely interested in recognising this and in pressing to redress the situation. I am. 
The Acting Minister for Overseas Trade may be aware of the widespread concern in rural areas that Australia may not be promoting its rural products as successfully as some of its competitors, such as New Zealand. In view of the fact that a substantial proportion of Australia's exports is in agricultural products and because of the obvious need for their active promotion overseas, will the Minister indicate whether greater permanent specialised resources can be made available in relevant Australian trade commissions, such as Tokyo, in the form of agricultural attaches? 
The Australian people are becoming increasingly perturbed about some aspects of our education system. The Australian Council for Educational Research publication, entitled  Literacy and Numeracy in Australian Schools,  points to an alarming rate of deterioration in the literacy and numeracy of our school children. Just a few examples of their findings will suffice to highlight the problem: Children who were required to write a simple narrative describing in words a picture sequence they viewed produced a 59 per cent failure rate; 9 per cent of children could not correctly add 9 and 6; 13 per cent could not subtract 9 from 17; and 27 per cent could not divide 56 by 7. 
Not surprisingly, concerned parents and interested educationalists are seeking explanations for this predicament. Part of the problem may be found, I suspect, in the degree of educational indoctrination in some teacher training colleges. The tutors of student teachers while playing down the instruction of basic teaching methods such as reading and basic numeracy, spend a questionable amount of time in teaching student teachers in repetitious courses in educational theory and philosophy, with instant courses in psychology and sociology. I am not setting myself up as an expert but I do not think I can be blamed for questioning this. The courses are not practical except for the small part of the course involved in the school situation. On the occasions when permitted to enter the schools, students often are encouraged to entertain the children in their care rather than actually to teach. That word 'entertain' is an esoteric term used by critics. That part of the student's experience amounts to a simple child minding exercise. Understandably, student teachers are frustrated under these conditions. They desperately want to learn how to teach but they are powerless to change the content and structure of their courses. Therefore, they become disappointed and apathetic. 
After completion of their courses new teachers realise that they are often ill prepared for the school situation and that their time at the college was only party effective. They must begin to relearn educational techniques and methods afresh. That is, I admit, a situation in common with some other courses. The difference is that in those courses there is always a grounding in first principles. Many teachers get out of the profession as soon as possible. The annual resignation rate has recently been as high as 30 per cent to 40 per cent. The end result unfortunately is that we are not keeping enough teachers implacably committed to the reduction of illiteracy in graduates of schools. Furthermore, another factor- confrontation- has found its way into education. Within some universities, colleges and schools, students are encouraged mostly through the study of social science subjects, to be critical of the workings of society. This is not a bad thing in itself, if pursued with a degree of genuine questioning. But there is often little thought given by those responsible to the consequences of this instruction on the minds of the impressionable students. 
Australians, unfortunately are becoming accustomed to more confrontation within our society, often in the form of violent demonstrations. What they are not generally aware of is that participation by students in some demonstrations is not limited only to university and college students. In the Australian Capital Territory, at least, students of an alternative school are actively encouraged to participate in demonstrations during school time. An example of this occurred on 1 7 August outside this very building. The point is that such demonstrations are frequently manipulated by dubious political organisations seeking to disrupt society. Innocent-minded students, who are for the most part under the impression that they are participating in a worthwhile cause, remain ignorant of the fact that they are being used. The real pity is that they themselves might become the victims of the strife others have sown. 
I have presented some of the perturbing facts with regard to education in Australia at the moment. There are more and more parents who are concerned about the direction of education, about the fact that some of the basic skills which we in Australia for many years have taken for granted as part of the education system are not being taught and that some of the other factors to which I have referred tonight are being stressed to the detriment of the welfare of the students of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that there is a single firm in Australia which synthesises menthol from dives oil. 
Has this company imported the vast proportion of its raw material requirements from South Africa and Swaziland at the same time as a 19 per cent tariff level exists on the finished product. 
Has this situation created great hardship for the eucalyptus dives industry in Australia. 
Will he consider moves to assist the industry against this situation which militates against the welfare of people employed in the eucalyptus industry in Australia. 
I would like to say first of all that I appreciate being able to follow the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in this debate.  (Quorum formed)  It was significant that in his speech the honourable member mentioned that we had had very little chance to reflect on this tax legislation. It is very interesting to see now that members of the Labor Party do not want us to debate it either. I was saying that it is a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Adelaide who is the Labor Party spokesman on Treasury matters. During the 12 months I have been here I have sometimes wondered who is the Labor Party's spokesman on Treasury matters. It would appear today that because the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is away the honourable member for Adelaide at last has his chance. He does have an agile mind and I respect it, but I do not respect the shifts in policy that he seems to adopt. At question time this morning we saw again that he does shift in his policy. I was disappointed tonight that he could not spend more time in his speech on letting us into the thinking of the Labor Party on some of the more specific points in this Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill. He did talk about some general items and of course, as is the wont of the Labor Party, he spent some time again belittling tax indexation. This is something which always seems to happen when a member of the Opposition gets up. I suppose I should admit that it is something that the Australian people have not as yet fully grasped. 
The fact is that tax indexation, which the honourable member for Adelaide tried to belittle in his speech, meant the forgoing of round about $ 1,000m to this Government this year. In the same mouthful the honourable member for Adelaide talked about the Medibank levy which cost the taxpayer only about 40 per cent of what he had saved by this Government's introduction of tax indexation. Nevertheless, all in all, I am very pleased to know that the honourable member for Adelaide, who is one of the two Labor spokesmen on Treasury matters, is not opposing these Bills. 
These Bills contain several amendments and all the amendments are important to various sectors of the community. He mentioned the consideration given to the Thalidomide Foundation. That is very important to the people concerned. He mentioned very briefly the amendments which relate to mining concerns. They are very important to those people. They are very important to me also because a substantial mining concern is about to begin operations in my electorate and it will benefit the community. I should add at this time that some of the things said by members of the Labor Party recently about mining concerns, especially since devaluation, indicate that they are not particularly interested in the mining industry becoming more active in this country and creating jobs for people. I am reminded that whatever else one may say about devaluation and about these tax amendments, companies like the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited in Tasmania and Jododex Australia Pty Ltd in my area will benefit because of positive action by this Government. 
I would like to spend some time on one specific item relating particularly to my area, which is in large part a pastoral area. I refer to income equalisation deposits.  (Quorum formed.)  It would appear that a concerted effort is being made to prevent my being heard. Honourable members on the Opposition side should remember that we listened with respectful silence to the honourable member for Adelaide who had 30 minutes in which to speak, albeit to only one or 2 members of his Party. I am particularly interested in the income equalisation deposits section of these tax amendments. The plight of rural areas in my electorate has become very difficult in recent year. The pastoral zone income figures have been mentioned recently by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  My electorate is part of the pastoral zone. Those figures indicate that in the whole pastoral zone in Australia the average income per farmer is less than $5,000 a year. In fact, if rural income overall is taken throughout Australia, the average income projected by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for this financial year is only $126 a week. That compares very unfavourably with the national average income of about $185 a week. The projected income of farmers in the pastoral zone in my electorate is only about $95 a week. 
The average capital invested in land alone in my area is over $100,000. The figure for the whole of Australia was about $107,000 at 1973 figures. So it is probably a little more than that now. That is in land alone. Most businessmen with that sort of investment would expect a return on capital of, say, 8 per cent. These days most people can quite easily get 10 per cent. That 8 per cent would give an investor something like $ 164 a week in return on investment alone. This, coupled with what one would expect as an average wage earned in Australia of $185 a week, should give the man on the land about $350 a week. I am referring to an average statistical person. That is about 3 times as much as the man on the land is getting. That $350 which I say the man on the land should be expecting still does not give him any margin for management or any return on other items such as water, fencing or buildings. 
In these conditions- I am talking about the conditions of farms that are earning these miserable returns at the moment- investment equalisation deposits will not yet be relevant. These people will not have enough money to put any aside in income equalisation deposits. IEDs have been a part of our platform for a long time. The honourable member for Adelaide tried to take some credit for the scheme by saying that IEDs were recommended in an Industries Assistance Commission report on a reference made in the time of the previous disastrous Labor Government. IEDs have been in our platform since 1974. When the Labor Party so repeatedly says that this or that was in its platform or that this or that was recommended by somebody, by the IAC following a reference, one wonders why the Labor Party did not do something about it. I refer to a number of things in the primary sector. I refer to the IAC recommendation on superphosphate and its recommendations on the beef industry. They were talked about by the Labor Government. It did nothing about them. We honour our promises. 
Despite the fact that many of my farmers will not benefit this year, it is very important that the IEDs be at last set up and understood. A few will benefit. Many will benefit in time. For example, if costs had not been accelerated by the Labor Government in the period 1973 to 1976, farm income in all sectors would now be reasonably acceptable. If one could have discounted the rate of inflation in those 3 years, which would not have occurred under a different government, incomes on farms would have more than covered costs at this stage. That is a statistical truth. Because we had to suffer that prodigal period of spending under the Labor Government, farm incomes have become terribly low. IEDs will not be used just yet by quite a few people. Many things are being done by this Government to keep down costs at the moment. We are making a concerted attack on inflation. We have done a lot of things that we promised for the primary producer since we were elected. More things are being done. For instance, at the moment the Australian Agricultural Council, which is a meeting of State primary industry Ministers and the Federal Minister, has set up a committee to look into a beef minimum price support scheme. All these things are being done because we have a Minister who is committed to the rural sector that he represents. 
Why do we need income equalisation deposits? It occurs to many people on the land in my area that the Government for many years has had plenty of good schemes for all other sectors. 
Even in recent months public servants have had increased and extremely liberal superannuation benefits set up for them. The man on the land realises that a large proportion of manufacturing industries gets tariff protection which is much higher than the rate pertaining in most other countries. Why therefore should not the primary sector get some sort of compensation, some sort of government consideration, apart from the quite meagre subsidies at present offered by this or any other government? The rural sector has fluctuating incomes. That is one of the facts of life in the rural sector. The rural sector has fluctuating incomes because of unusual conditions- conditions of weather and of disease and peculiar conditions created more recently by the great increase in internal costs and in some external costs. The primary sector cannot compensate internally very quickly to offset some of those fluctuating conditions. It cannot restock and destock over night. Incomes cannot be varied in the light of changing external circumstances. 
I think it is important that we have some means of compensating for these wildly fluctuating incomes to which farmers are often subjected. The means of compensation is income equalisation deposits. Under previous systems, a high income invariably meant crippling taxes on primary producers, especially on a high income after a very low income year. I know people on the land who, in the face of very high provisional tax, have spent prodigally to avoid taxation. In any person's language, that is bad management. The income equalisation deposits, which will enable the primary producer not to have to resort to prodigal spending, will mean that he can resort to better management. The IEDs will be a management tool. Apart from the fact that they will be used as a means of paying less tax in the long term, they will be a management tool so that good managers, even in the face of bad conditions such as drought, will take out money and invest when the opportunity arises, as distinct from what has often been done in the past. 
Some people have asked me why the interest rate is 5 per cent. Some people do not realise that the 5 per cent interest rate, in the light of the fact that the income equalisation deposits include some tax which normally would have been paid, is really quite a substantial interest rate. One must admit that some people who are earning in some years a very high income and therefore paying a marginal rate of 65 per cent will have an effective pre-tax rate of a lot more than 5 per cent. So the IEDs will still be attractive to those people. I believe that the 5 per cent rate is a clean and reasonably generous decision, as distinct from other possibilities which the Treasury had facing it and which would have cost a great deal in administration. The general 5 per cent will give the right result at the cheapest possible price. 
Other people have asked me 'What about the question of extension to other groups in the community?' We must remember that there are other groups that have widely fluctuating incomes at various times. I will admit that I am very much in favour as the economic conditions get better, as they will under this Government, of extending IEDs to other sectors. But I can appreciate that at the moment that is probably not possible. I should hope that that happens as soon as the Government can afford it. 
Over the months that I have been here I have heard members of the Opposition maliciously criticising the rural sector. The typical interjections from the other side of the House indicate the scant regard that most members on the benches opposite have for people who work on the land. 
What about the honourable member's interjections about 'you wealthy graziers'? 
-It is not rubbish. I hear it every day; the people of Australia hear it every day. What about the questions that were asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the House about what profit he is going to make on his property as a result of devaluation? What about the lack of Opposition policies? I imagine that when the next election comes around the Opposition will pull some magnificent looking rabbits out of the hat. They will come out with a beautiful seemingly tight rural policy. From what I read in the paper I believe that the Opposition is working on it right now. I can imagine that all these rabbits might look very attractive to some people. But people in the rural sector, and certainly those in my electorate, will not be duped again. The few people in the primary sector who went across to Labor in 1972 because of the carrot that was held in front of them- the promise of the great  Utopia  that we would have in this country with no further effort from the people of Australia- will not be duped again. The income equalisation deposits will cost the Government. They will not show up as a subsidy, thank heavens, to the rural sector. But they certainly will benefit the rural sector to a great extent. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will know that applications closed on 4 November this year for a commerical radio translator to be located in the MoruyaBatemans Bay area of New South Wales. The Minister will know also that the population of that region is rapidly expanding. Despite this, it still suffers incredibly bad radio reception. When will the translator licence be granted to the successful applicant? 
Tonight has indeed been a memorable night for quotations from both sides of the House. I have listened with great interest to the debate so far. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  unfortunately did not say very much about the important issues raised in this debate. He seemed more interested in at last trying to attack the Government on some things which are probably important and about which the people of Australia want to hear. Unfortunately the people of Australia are not hearing any opposition from the Opposition. The people are not seeing the issues that face this country properly laid out so we can talk about them in this chamber. I can see by the Press every day just how disappointed the people are at this rump of an Opposition which refuses to debate issues which face Australia. In no speech from the other side did I hear any real attempt to argue principles. The only principle that I heard raised by the Opposition related to its defence of privilege. The Opposition is well known for its defence of privilege in the higher echelons of the trade union movement which manipulate the working people of Australia in many instances, so of course it was proposed new section 4SD that was the subject of most of the attack. 
There were many memorable quotes. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said that it is the workers who will make things happen. I agree. He does not say many things with which I agree, but he is right on that. It is something that I think both sides would like to stand by. If only the workers would be allowed to let things happen. If only people such as the honourable member for Burke would not stick up for privilege in the trade union movement but would let the workers of Australia decide their future. That is why I think the proposed new section 45D, which is what I want to speak about mainly tonight, is so important. It protects the rights of the workers of Australia. It does not leave them to be manipulated by the people in the big black cars who are still driving around and getting paid when there are black bans and green bans in Australia. It is privilege that the trade union movement stands for so much. The trade union movement was built up by the Labor Party that then was; the Labor Party that saw the great privilege in the corporations and in the aristocracy on the 19th century; the Labor Party that was a great Party because to some extent it brought about social justice in this country. But it has gone too far. It has got into the hands of the intellectual Left. The intellectual Left has the Labor Party in its clutches. There are many members of the intellectual Left on the Opposition benches. The intellectual Left does not care about the workers of Australia. That comes out so often in discussions in this House, even in the very occasional discussions on the economy by the Opposition. 
Proposed new section 45d is a section for which many of my constituents have been looking for a long time. In the 1971 Act, introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, section 36 pointed the way to some control over black bans and collusive practices against industries by groups of persons such as unions. This section was never used. Not being a lawyer, I doubt that it really could have been used. Any possibility of it being used was very smartly removed by the Labor Government in 1973. The Labor Government was intent to say that some sections of the Australian people could not engage in restrictive practices but the same sections wearing different hats certainly could. I am concerned about the proposed new section because of its importance to trade unionists. I admit that a great number of trade unionists would never vote for people on this side of the House, but there are plenty who do. I believe that about SO per cent of trade unionists voted for us at the last election. I am talking about the working people of Australia- the people, as the honourable member for Burke said, who make things happen. Not long after that he said that all we are doing is wagging a big stick. He is frightened that this section might show the working people of Australia that they have rights against people of privilege who pull them out on bans that work very much against their best interests as breadwinners; as people who want to go to work; as people who want to buy consumer goods, and as people who have children to raise. 
There is great concern at present in the Australian electorate about these issues. There is concern among non-unionists, people who wear other hats, but there is a great deal of concern among unionists. There is concern that the executives of the unions have too much power. The other day an old fellow, a strong unionist, who had worked in the mines said to me: 'In the old days, when they could not find an excuse to bring us out they would bring us out because the pit ponies had bad breath*. That is the kind of stunt they get up to now. Members of the Australian Workers Union working on the lower Molonglo water treatment works told me last week that they are sick to death of being pulled out when they want to take home some pay for their wives and children. I realise that this debate will be adjourned shortly and that I probably should not develop my argument very much further. But let honourable members opposite at least take this thought home tonight: They support privilege in the unions. 
Debate interrupted. 
When my remarks were interrupted last night I had been talking about what the Labor Party really stands for these days in its relationship with the working people of Australia. I was saying that one of the great things about that part of the legislation to which I was referring, namely, proposed new section 4Sd, is that it will protect the workers against some of the worst excesses of some of the worst people in the trade unions. Workers do need protection and, under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, of course, workers are protected in regard to their conditions of work because they have obtained legitimate awards. But they have not been protected in many other respects. 
One thing which is necessary for everybody, especially the family man, is the right to work. Many bans have been imposed in this country, not only this year and last year but for many years, and they have militated against people in the work force being able to go to work to earn the bread that they require for their families. I believe that the insertion of this proposed section in the legislation is of great importance to those people in the Australian work force who want to go to work and earn some bread. It is important for the members of the work force as consumers to be able to go to work and not to be kept out of their places of work by a small number of people who have ulterior motives for doing so. It is important for these people as consumers to be able to earn enough money to be able to afford the things they need. 
There probably should have been a few more lockouts. As far as consumers are concerned, from the other side of the coin it has been very frustrating at times, even within the past month, that because of what I would call illegitimate black bans consumers have been inhibited in buying the goods they have a right to buy. In my electorate at Christmas time, because there had been what I regard as a shameful exhibition by some people in the petroleum industry, consumers and people with businesses were not able to obtain the services they required. Consumers were affected because petrol sometimes was not available and businesses which employed other workers were affected because tourists were not travelling to their area for fear that they would not be able to buy petrol. 
It is all right for people to go on strike or to withdraw their services full time. That right is probably sacred in our society. But, when people band together, as they sometimes do in powerful unions, and partially withdraw their services and thereby prejudice the jobs of a great number of people across a wide area, they have gone too far. It is the feeling of the vast majority of the Australian electorate that for too long we have had black bans and, at times, green bans. These bans have militated against the livelihood of Australian workers. I draw attention to a statement made by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  in his second reading speech, which points out that the legislation is not meant to interfere with legitimate actions. He said that the exemption is now to be limited to matters of remuneration, conditions of employment, hours of work and working conditions. In other words, there is still to be an exemption. When people in a union are working hard to get better conditions and remuneration and perhaps they do fully withdraw their services, that is not covered by this proposed section. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act applies to such actions. Under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act theoretically people should discuss and decide in a court exactly what the award should be. The Opposition speakers did seem to want to expand the debate to cover those areas relating to conditions of employment. 
One of the members of the Opposition who spoke on this Bill said that the Government was trying to limit the right of association-that sacred cow. Nobody wants to limit the right of association or the right of people to get together legitimately and to look for better conditions. But so often it has been the case that other people, apart from the few with vested interests in unions, have had their livelihoods prejudiced. I was reminded today, when I read a Press release issued by one of the rural organisations, of some of the problems that have been associated with rural industry over the past 12 months. People in my area received legitimate payment for their wool many months late because of illegitimate action by the Storemen and Packers Union. People found that they had to plead with the Treasury to be permitted to pay their tax late in a year in which it was hard enough anyway to scrape together enough money to pay their tax. It is terrifically important for us, as Australians, to realise that we all share in the responsibility of making this country run properly. The divisions that exist because of militant unionists using great privilege through the system that has been evolved have militated so much against the best interests of the country. 
One of the speakers from this side of the House noted that ours is a pluralist society. We depend upon people from all sorts of positions to make up the work force and to contribute to production in this country. When one of the cogs in the wheel is stripped by people abusing power, the whole system slows down. There is no future for this country if there are a few revolutionary people who want to grab large numbers of people- as they have the power to do these days- pull them out of the work place, hold the rest of the country to ransom, run down production in the country and run down the livelihood of those people who are being pulled out of the work place. Rural industry, which is very close to my heart, has suffered greatly; but plenty of other industries should be assisted if proposed section 45d can be enforced. 
I am reminded of the situation which exists in Japan, where I understand the union officials have a much greater awareness of the fact that the people who work in unions are part of the wheel of society. I believe that last year in Japan a strike at a transistor radio factory in which the workers, who probably had a legitimate complaint, instead of going out on strike, going slow, or doing any of the things which ultimately result in a loss of production and therefore an increase in prices to consumers, remained at the workbench and produced a great deal but decided not to weld the last little bit in the circuits in the radios. When the dispute was resolved it was just a matter of doing those final little bits of work very quickly and the company, which had been deprived of its income, was put back on its feet in that it could then ship out the orders, perhaps to overseas customers, that produced the income for the workers. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  last night espoused competition. Competition has no truck with illegitimate black bans; nor does it have any truck with the outmoded scab syndrome which the Labor Party constantly pushes in this place. The scab syndrome, under which a man is not supposed to go to work if his mates illegitimately refuse to deliver goods to his place of work, inhibits fair competitionthe thing that the honourable member for Port Adelaide so highly espouses. We have a free enterprise system in this country, and thank heavens we do. We need a free enterprise system in which there is fluidity and in which people can change their work place and are not tied down by a small number of labour organisations which are feathering their own nests. 
I imagine that one of the problems of this particular part of the legislation will be that of enforcement. A member of the Opposition- I believe it was the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)-stated  that this proposed section will invite turmoil into industry. Why should it invite turmoil into industry? Why does he not believe that Australians are responsible people? We know from the way they voted at the polls at the last general election that they are responsible people. I invite the workers of Australia to enforce this proposed section. It would be in their best interests to do so. They will have the force of law behind them if they stand up against people who want to pull them into black bans that are against their best interests. I believe that this proposed section should have been inserted in trade practices legislation long ago. It is in the interests of the Australian producers and consumers. 
The Labor Party would always be far too timid to introduce such a proposal. It knows from where its funds come. They come from the big monopolistic unions. The Labor Party would never have been strong enough to act in this way. Thank heavens this provision is now being included in the Act. I support very much proposed section 45d which will effectively and m wide terms ban illegitimate black bans. I hope that in the review of this legislation that will take place in the recess the Minister makes certain that the proposed section is retained. I will be telling my constituents about it no matter which way they voted at the last election because one of the questions that I have been asked by people so often in my electorate in the past year is: 'Why do you not somehow stop the unions prejudicing our jobs?' 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of newspaper reports recently that his Department is considering recommending an increase in immigration to Australia from 70 000 to 100 000 next year? Would such an increase lead to an increase in demand for goods and services in the Austraiian economy? 
It is indeed refreshing to see at last eighteen or twenty members of the Labor Party in the House at the same time to hear the speech of their beloved Leader. But they must have been terribly disappointed to have come in here today to hear such a great diatribe.  (Quorum formed)  I am indeed grateful to the Opposition for increasing the numbers in the House though I see that Labor members are all disappearing again. I was about to tell them what I thought of the speech just finished by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  which sounded to me very much like his re-election speech. I have no doubt that many members of the Labor Party would have been disappointed in what he had to say because whereas as usual he did have a chance to speak about the economy and to bring up some constructive criticism of the Government, he got caught up in his read speech in a great amount of sublimated guilt. The slander that kept corning out of his mouth was absolutely shameful at this time when we are looking to get this country into some form of recovery. I will admit that it was a well read speech. Obviously the Leader of the Opposition is going to the speed reading classes being conducted at the moment because he did speed up so beautifully later on. I suggest he would be better in a job at the Australian Broadcasting Commission than leading the Opposition which has shown so markedly not to be an Opposition. The Opposition has not at any stage in the last 12 months put reasonable and positive alternatives to the policies of the Government, and the speech by the Leader of the Opposition is no exception. I wonder what the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  will say in his policy speech. No doubt he will be speaking later in the Address-in-Reply debate. 
I should add one thing before I move on to the substance of my speech, and that is that all of us on this side of the House will be very pleased if the Leader of the Opposition retains his position. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is smiling. The Queen's Speech was, of necessity, one of generality. The main thrust of the Government's economic policy is well known and basically well accepted across this country. In her speech the Queen said: 
My Government is not only taking action to restore the economy, it is also making social reforms which are of fundamental importance to the freedom and well-being of the Australian people. 
That presents the balance of our Government. We are taking action to restore the economy. We are making social reforms. To do both at the same time is not a simple job. The previous Labor Government showed very clearly how difficult it was to try to do both. No doubt it would have liked to have restored the economy every few months when it saw how swiftly the economy was going down hill. It did make social reforms, we will admit. It made them very rapidly. Within the context of absolutely disastrous management by the previous government, it was impossible to keep the thrust of social reforms going because unless we have a restored economy, an economy that can stand social reforms, an economy that is properly managed so that social reforms can be afforded by the people of Australia, those social reforms cannot be carried forward. Social reforms will break down if we do not have real productivity in the country to pay for them. 
There is great pressure on the present Government because of its absolute commitment to the social well-being of the people of Australia. At the same time it has an obligation to restore the economy which we found in such disastrous circumstances in December 1975. The pressure to balance the Budget is creating all sorts of problems for the Government. We must remember that we have obligations. We have obligations to pensioners, and we have stuck by the pensioners. We have introduced important reforms in pensions. We have stuck by our commitments on defence. In 1975 it looked as if it would not be too long before the typical fear of the socialists about defence forces would bring about a run down of the forces which would leave us completely with our pants down. It was obvious to us that we had to find money to spend on defence. It was obvious to us that because of the run down in the real value of the dollar aged people were suffering. It was obvious to us that the child endowment system had become out of date because of the size of the payments being made and that necessary reforms had to be made. 
The Budget is still running at historically very high levels. It is a great problem and a worry to the Government that we are spending more money than we are raising in taxes. It is putting tremendous pressure on the interest rate structure of this country. We, as a responsible Government, must borrow the money to cover the Budget deficit. That is what we are doing. We are not printing money, as the then Labor Government was proposing to do. We are borrowing money but in doing so we are putting pressure on interest rates. As I have said, there is great pressure to balance the budget but there are so many areas in which money needs to be spent that that is still an extremely difficult problem. Therefore, the social reforms to which we are committed are continuing at cost to inflation and to the general economy. The paradox in which we are trying to exist, that of restoring the economy at the same time as making social reforms, is a difficult paradox in which to fit. 
I was reminded of the mendacity of the Opposition when I heard the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  this afternoon ridiculing the Government for the increases in the consumer price index. I often hear him urging wage rises and tax rises. He must be urging tax rises if he is talking about paying for some of the extravagant programs that the Opposition appears to advocate from time to time. He, like so many members of the Opposition, is always urging price rises. What other construction could one put on the fact that the Opposition wanted the Government to pay so much more to buy ships in Australia? What construction could one put on that idea other than that the Opposition wants price rises? It worries the Government when the Opposition keeps talking about how we are increasing the consumer price index when, in fact, it is the Opposition's policies, if there are any, that would rapidly increase the CPI and bring about higher inflation. The Government's position is extremely difficult. 
Because we have this opportunity to speak in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Queen's Speech, following the prorogation of Parliament, I should like to review briefly the past year on some respects and to look at the future as it applies specifically to my electorate of Eden-Monaro. Many things have been done for my electorate by this Government in the last year. I remind the Opposition that it is often repeated in my electorate by employers and employees that inflation really is the main problem and that the rise in costs under the Labor administration left an indelible scar especially in the rural sector of my electorate which is stuggling even at a time when prices are beginning to rise in some sectors of the rural industry. I shall refer to some sectors of the rural industry. I shall refer to some of the things that the Government has done for the electorate of EdenMonaro. Like so many other honourable members in this House I represent a large number of pensioners. I think it was admirable that in the face of having to make cuts in so many areas last year we were able to introduce automatic adjustments to pensions. That has never been done before. The fact that it has never been done has often been repeated by honourable members on this side of the House. The pensioners in my area have some degree of security now that political decisions will not be involved in their pension rises. 
The Government also relaxed the means test for pensions and the assets test was removed. This was of great help to people especially in the coastal region of my electorate. It was a bold move. If some honourable members opposite who, I believe, remain closeted in the inner city areas would go out and see how some people have been struggling in rural areas and towns they would find that many people have been locked into assets that do not bear any income. These people have been struggling at a time when, having worked very hard throughout their lives, they deserve a pension. It was this Government that brought in that innovation. The honourable member for Blaxland ridiculed the rural sector, as he always does. I think he is some sort of a spokesman for the rural industry. He said that not one substantial thing has been done for primary industry. He ought to go into my area and talk to the wool growers. He should ask them what they thought about the previous Government's policy towards the wool support plan. The wool growers can see that recent innovations in the Australian Wool Corporation have meant a real increase in income at a time when it was desperately needed. Let him talk to all the farmers about the price escalations that occurred between 1972 and 1975. Do not let the Leader of the Opposition tell the Australian public as he did in his read speech over the radio this afternoon that inflation is not falling. Of course inflation is coming down. It has come down by over 4 per cent in the last 12 months. That is an admirable result, it has been achieved despite all the destructive criticism that we have had whenever we have wanted to cut the size of the Public Service and cut programs that are costing the Australian taxpayer so much money. 
In my electorate of Eden-Monaro there have been at least some moves towards more funding for roads. This is an important item in any large electorate. There have been 2 increases over and above allocations proposed by the previous Labor Government in respect of road grants. Only in the last few months the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  had an open fight by way of letters with the State Minister for Transport in New South Wales about how money would be allocated.  (Quorum formed)  Doesn't the truth hurt. Honourable members opposite do not like what I am saying. Probably they should remember that I am always short- not in stature so much, but I am always as short and to the point as my engineering background requires. 
I have been talking about some of the good things that have happened in my electorate. Nine projects for aged people have been funded in my electorate for this triennium- 9 projects out of a possible ten. I am not the only member around Australia in whose electorate a great deal of money is being spent on the aged. As I have said, these people have been neglected because of the rundown in the real value of the dollar over the Labor Party's regime. 
Many things are in the pipeline. Only a week or so ago pensioners received another increase in their rate of pension. In the rural sector the proposal to establish a meat and livestock corporation is to be cleaned up, properly we hope, within a week or so. Meat stabilisation is something of which I have been an advocate for some time. Hopefully within the next year or so after proper consultation has taken place such a scheme will be introduced into this country. The Leader of the Opposition dismissed the rural bank as something on which the Government has not acted. It is something on which the Government is acting and which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said we should look forward to in the next Budget. 
More money is to go into rural local roads in my electorate in the next year. There will be a great increase of the order of 40 per cent. The far reaching report on the aged and infirm, on which no doubt the Government will be acting in the near future, is another indication of our concern for social reform within the context of the recovery of the economy. 
At the beginning of the thirtieth Parliament I spoke during the Address-in-Reply debate about the divisiveness that has been built up in this country following the Labor Party's time in power. I said that diversity was required in this country and not divisiveness. Divisiviness is decreasing. We have introduced legislationamendments to the Trade Practices Act- that will reduce divisiveness in terms of employers and the actions of employees. We are returning to diversity in this country. We are returning to the thrust in this country that we had been used to having over many years- the thrust that is brought about only by having the work in this country done by private enterprise, not big government. 
The gross national product moved up last year as distinct from the trends in the previous 2 years. The fact that it moved up is something that so many of the newspapers forget to report. We are having smaller government and we are giving people something to spend, something to use as they see fit. We are moving away from the dullness, the stagnation and the dehumanisation that we would have in the socialistic society that a Labor government would bring about. The Leader of the Opposition's speech was full of garbage and slander. I am pleased that I have been able to speak about Australia, about the people of my electorate and about the people of this Commonwealth. They matter to us in the Liberal and National Country Parties. 
I wish to speak briefly tonight on a matter which will become of increasing importance to the people of Australia, and possibly will happen within the next 12 months. It is mooted at the moment that Australia, along with a number of other countries in the Pacific region, may declare a 200-mile sea limit within the next 6 or 9 months. That will have tremendously important implications not only for all electorates on the seaboard of Australia but also for people who live in other parts of Australia, because it is not often realised by Australians that the 200-mile limit will mean a doubling of the size of the Australian territory which will have to be serviced and defended. It is a tremendously important task for the Government and for the people of Australia to marshal our resources and our thinking towards that day when we will have that extra territory to police. The defence implications, of course, are well known and have been well publicised. We in this country realise that, following the drastic rundown of our defence forces during the period of office of the Labor Government, the tremendous task of building those forces again to some viable size is going to be made all the more difficult as a result of the extra sea area that will need to be policed. 
Without going into that matter any further, because obviously it will be the subject of debate in this Parliament at the appropriate time, I point out that there are other implications. The foreign policy implications will also be very important as time goes on. I would just like to say at this stage that any idea of resources diplomacy in the Whitlam sense will never be any good. The idea that we should trade our goods off against some other bit of foreign policy from overseas is, in the worst sense, anathema to me and, I believe, to most honourable members on this side of the House. I think it can be demonstrated, for instance, that if we were to withhold our fishing resources in the interests of some so-called Whitlam resources diplomacy policy we would find that we probably would not be able to sell them anyway. There have been indications that if we do not supply some of the other resources of this country the people who would normally want to buy them from us will go elsewhere. The examples of iron ore and some other commodities for which there are other sources of supply bear out that case. Apart from that, a more overriding implication in regard to resources diplomacy Whitlam style is that it is just downright immoral in the international sense. 
The primary industry implications for my electorate of the increase in the fishing limit to 200 miles are of tremendous importance. They put a great obligation on the Government. A tremendous amount of money will have to be spent on research- not necessarily by the Government, but of course the Government will be required to co-ordinate that to some extent. The whole question of the financing of the larger vessels that will be necessary if we are to harvest our resources efficiently obviously will need great attention. Of course, the Australian fishing industry is already large. For instance, it is already  Vh  times the size of the apple industry, which we are debating in this Parliament this week. I do not have to tell the 
Parliament that we export a tremendous quantity of fish, but we will have those extra resources and they will be very important to us. The whole question of Federal-State relations will be a problem. For instance, at the moment in New South Wales there are all sorts of State regulations and restrictions that will have to be washed away or at least modified if we are to get a viable system of fishing within the 200-mile limit. We will have great possibilities for joint venture operations in the servicing of ships, the processing of fish and the ownership of boats, in particular with Japan. The Government knows that there will be a need for extensive policies in this region. I certainly hope that the rest of Australia is becoming aware of the tremendous problems that we will have and the tremendous challenges that we will face. 
I am really quite honoured to follow in the debate the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who, in my view, gave a most reasoned discussion on the Green Paper, except that, unfortunately, he said that some people regarded migrants brought to Australia after the war as factory fodder. I suggest that if the honourable member were to talk to many of the people in my electorate who came to this country, probably with very little money in their pockets and with very few skills, and who have done very well here, he would find that they would not like being referred to as being factory fodder. 
The speech of the honourable member for Scullin, however, was in sharp contradistinction to the speech made by the shadow Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  For some reason he seemed to think that we were living in Canada. In fact, we are living in Australia. We are talking about the Green Paper on Australian immigration and population. We are not talking about Canada and we are not talking about many of the things that the honourable member seemed to want to get across so that tomorrow the Press could make something of what he said. It seems to me that the shadow Minister will well remember the work which was done by the Labor Party on the migration system in Australiathe work of rapidly cutting back the number of migrants, the work of dispersing the Department of Immigration and tying up some of its loose ends in a  pot-pourri  known as the Department of Labour and Immigration. That is a move which is well known through the migrant communities and which the present Government corrected immediately it came to power. Probably we should keep reminding migrant people in Australia of that because, despite the fact that a lot of prancing is done at large migrant rallies at places such as Melbourne by the now Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  a very big question mark hangs over the word 'now'the record of the Government in producing this Green Paper in a relatively short time is most commendable. 
The population makeup in Australia is changing because of the 2 main factors mentioned in the Green Paper. The net reproduction rate in Australia at the moment is very low. In fact, the latest statistics show that the net reproduction rate between 1974 and 1975, a period of one year, decreased from 1.12 to 1.06. The net reproduction rate is a rough term which can be used as an indication of whether the population is increasing or decreasing in net terms. When the reproduction rate reaches one- I take it that by now it may well have reached that level- we are in trouble. I do not propose, however, to expand on that argument any further because the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has taken the opportunity of doing that. 
The main thrust of my discussion would prefer to rest on the fact that the number of migrants to this country has been dramatically reduced. I am reminded that in 1970 we had a net permanent gain of just under 150 000 people, whereas by 1975 that figure had dropped to 25 000 people. I just ask: What effect did that vacuum have on Australia? In fact, the increase in our permanent population caused by the drop off in migration was reduced by 123 000 people per annum, and those 123 000 people mean, for instance, the loss of a lot of work for the building industry. The net effect has been that whereas Australia's population was increasing by just on 250 000 people per annum between 1968 and 1972, it has now dropped back to about 40 000 or 50 000 people per annum. That has the effect of creating a great vacuum. It represents a drop in the increase of population of about 200 000 people. 
We must remember that many of our services have been geared up to that great thrust of population increase, both by natural causes and by migration, that occurred after the war. I fail to see how we can cope with the sort of vacuum to which I have referred in such a short time. The effects on the economy of this sharp cut back have been multitudinous. Of course we have had a levelling out recently in education spending because of the change in the population pattern. At the same time, we are going into a period in which, because of the increase in the proportion of aged people, we will be funding a lot more assistance for the aged. Of course under this Government that has already started in no uncertain terms. 
We have had demonstrably a decreased demand for capital investment. The Green Paper refers to the nexus between the rate of immigration and the rate of capital investment. We have had a very sharply decreased demand for construction activities. I remind the House that one of the major areas of unemployment at present is in the construction industry. The construction industry depends not on a steady population but on an increasing population if it is to carry on with the degree of expertise and at the pace that it has been used to in recent years. Looking at the Green Paper and summing up what people in my electorate think about immigration, I would say the total net effect of this vacuum, which has been largely created in the Australian Labor Party term of office, is absolutely detrimental to this country. 
The rate of change of the increase in population was too sharp. Professor Borrie was at pains in his report to remind us that not only should we be talking about the level but also the rate of change of the level. I think that this is something which the Government must take into account in deciding what future policy will be- the change of rate of increase or decrease. 
The Green Paper, on summing up, in my view basically supports immigration as a tool of population increase. It seems in so many places to come out behind the idea that we should be thinking about getting back to more traditional levels. It says that we will have an increase in demand for services with an increase in immigration. I would have thought that was self-evident but there are many people, such as the shadow Minister for Immigration, who seem to thinkthis is one thing I vaguely got out of his speechthat an increase in immigration will necessarily add to the rate of unemployment. Of course that is a fairly wide field to talk about. But I think that it is self-evident that an increase in immigration will add to the demand for services and then ultimately of course to the supply of services. 
The Green Paper makes some very interesting points on a number of subjects. It talks about the possibility in future programs of the deployment of immigration for the purposes of decentralisation. As a member who represents a country electorate that is dear to my heart. The Paper suggests that there would have to be possible concessions to immigrants in order to encourage them not to go to the traditional stamping grounds of Sydney and Melbourne and the large cities. Perhaps that is something the Minister should look at closely in making final decisions. The Green Paper talks about many of the traditional arguments about economies of scale created in a country with such a relatively small population as this. It states that economies of scale are important still in the growth of our manufacturing industries. Many associated issues are discussed. I am very pleased that the issues of capital investment were mentionedwhether in fact an increase in immigration will cause a fall off in capital investment available for production as against that which will be required for the provision of social services such as schools and hospitals. The Green Paper notes that the capital investment needs of migrants are quite different at times from those of the existing population. It talks about many of the problems. It talks about the possibilities of ethnic tensions. From what I have seen working, for many years, in places such as Wollongong, I believe that ethnic tensions in this country are almost nonexistent. I come across them occasionally but in terms of what has happened in many other countries we have had a sensible system over the years and these tensions have not created much trouble. 
The Green Paper mentions the problem of English speaking. It also notes that there should be no bar to continued immigration from nonEnglish speaking countries. I completely endorse that view. The Paper talks about the use of resources. Another thing I heard the Opposition spokesman say was that perhaps we do not have the resources to sustain a tremendous increase in immigration. I would argue with that too. The Paper also mentions refugees. I do not think that in a 1 5 minute speech one has time even to begin to talk about refugees. The whole question of refugees has to hinge on the moral question apart from all other questions. I am afraid that I must say again that the attitude of the previous Government to refugees who fought beside us in South-East Asia did not hinge on any sort of moral issues at all. 
There are traditional arguments against a substantial increase in the immigration programthe traditional argument of an increase in the unemployment level. I believe that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is talking about carrying out a very detailed study through the Commonwealth Employment Service of the unemployment situation among the migrant population. I understand, however- this would be certainly borne out in my area- that the level of unemployment amongst the migrant population is far lower than amongst people who are born in this country. There are also the traditional arguments m favour of an increase in migrant population. The old argument of populate or perish is probably out of date. We must give the late Arthur Calwell credit for his foresight after the war in getting this country going by means of the immigration program. There are other traditional arguments that migrants are highly motivated. We all know how highly motivated they are and that people come here at times with very little money but with motivation to get out and work with some sort of pioneering drive which we may have lacked in Australia for awhile. 
In my view immigration has added a great deal to this country and will continue to do so. We know that the needs of the migrants in the short term will add to the demands for goods and services, as I have said. Some adjustments will be required. The Treasury would obviously realise that we would need a commensurate increase in the money supply to cope with the demand for credit that migrants need when they come to this country, for instance, to purchase houses. I realise that because of the popular Press it may be politically unpalatable to talk about an increase in the immigration program. That probably is the conventional wisdom. I will stand out on any limb and say that the long term results will bear out any sort of confidence that the Minister might have in the immigration program adding to this country once again. 
As I said, the rate of change in the intake will be important. We on this side of the House know what happens when people make rash, quick decisions and try to change things too quickly. We had to put up with that in this country for two or three years. The Paper has put up some reasonable options, I believe. It pointed out that even with a net gain of 100 000 people we would still be below the 1 per cent level of increase that seemed to be the Government's aim for many years in this country. In the Minister's tabling statement he noted that this Green Paper gives us an opportunity to recognise with confidence that Australia has an unlimited future. That is important. We have an unlimited future. The immigration program will help us to take advantage of that unlimited future. The Minister also stated that Australia of 1977 is very much the result of the decisions taken by its leaders in years gone by. I suggest that one of the most important decisions of the leaders of this country was to have a great and substantial immigration program. I would fully support any decision following this Green Paper to reintroduce that program because I believe that we as Australians need it for our future benefit. I certainly hope that the Minister comes out on the side of a substantial increase. 

 Dr JENKINS (Scullin)-Mr  Deputy Speaker, 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
II was based on humanitarian grounds and the needs of the country and that later immigration under Liberal governments became factory fodder programs. I can understand why the honourable member would want to misquote that statement. 
I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the livestock slaughter levy which under the present system is paid by meat processors and then deducted from payments due to producers. Is the Minister aware that some butchers are buying cattle ostensibly for slaughter and hence liable for the deduction of the levy from producers, but then because those animals are in fact not slaughtered, pocketing the amount of the levy? Is the Minister in a position to change the method of collection of the levy so that the processors who actually pay the levy reflect the amount of the levy in the price they offer in the market place? 
-The Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill, which the House is debating in continuation of last night's debate, is the sixth substantive Bill for funds from this Parliament to the Asian Development Bank, which, as honourable members know, was set up in 1966. Since then, of course, that Bank has added a great deal to that area which is so important to Australia, the area of Asia and in particular South East Asia. In this Bill Australia is contributing or will be contributing approximately $34m originally with a total commitment of $346m, all of which is conditional on a total contribution from other members of the Bank of $2.9 billion. Australia's subscriptions to date in the previous 5 Bills have been rather difficult for many people to understand, as I discovered when I looked at the contributions Australia has made and the contributions that it is due to make. I thought it might be of interest to put on record some of the facts about Australia's contributions because they are rather confusing. I think many sectors of the Australian public would probably like to know more about this matter. 
There are 3 basic forms of contribution, as has been shown in the various Bills which have been enacted by this place.  Major contributions  are through the concessional lending contributions. A Bill was passed last year in this connection. Under the 1970 Act Australia committed $US10m. Under the 1974 Act the contribution was $US27m and in 1976, since the change in Government, another $US41.6m has been contributed. There is an interesting proviso in some of our contributions, that is, a value maintenance provision. This is something that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  should keep in mind, I imagine, because, as Australia's contributions become due account is taken of currency adjustments over the period since the contribution was first approved by this Parliament. The overall commitments that I have just mentioned have a current value of approximately $US62m. Of that amount Australia has, in fact, only made payments to date of $US 11.6m, so there is an outstanding commitment, without the value maintenance provision, of approximately $US50m. At the present time this is equivalent to about $A45m. In addition to the concessional lending Australia is involved in taking up shares for ordinary lending. This is for lending by the bank at normal bank interest rates, as distinct from the concessional rates, which are, in fact, extremely concessional, in general over a 40-year period at a rate of interest of 1 per cent. Under the ordinary lending, the share subscriptions are also subject to value maintenance payments. Under the 1966 Act Australia committed $US42.5m of which $US2 1.25m was in cash and $US2 1.25m was in the form of promissory notes. In addition to that there is another $US42.5m on call, for which in total Australia has committed $US85m. 
So far Australia has made 2 cash payments towards this end totalling $US3 1.45 m. These have been completed but not all the promissory notes have yet been encashed. With regard to the 1966 promissory notes $A5.6m will be encashed in this financial year and a further $A6.8m will be encashed in 1977-78. These will be the 2 final encashments of Australian promissory notes. In addition, it is envisaged that the value maintenance payment for which Australia is committed totalling $A9. 1 8m will be made in 1 977-78. This, of course, will have to be committed in that Budget although $ A3. 02 m will again be in the form of promissory notes. To summarise this mechanical money part of the contributions, Australia's outstanding commitments- this does not take into account the present Bill- include shares at call to a value of $US144m, maintenance of value payments of $A9. 18m, outstanding promissory notes totalling $A27.1m- as I have said, these were for share subscriptions- and the contributions to the concessional lending through the Asian development fund of $A45m. In addition to this, Australia is committed to contributions to the technical assistance special fund, which is of particular interest to me because under that arrangement the work put through the Bank comes back to Australia automatically. It is not a large fund but it is important to me because the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, which is located in my electorate, benefits to some extent. The Asian Development Bank is a growing contributor to the South East Asian region. 
As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said last night, Australia's contribution to this region can only be good. In the speech he made last night and in speeches he made last year he has noted that it never seems to be enough. Honourable members will realise that Professor Myrdal has for many years been a great man in terms of the economics of undeveloped and developing countries. He pointed out quite some time ago that despite the fact that a great deal is being done and has been done by many of the great nations, such as the United States of America, towards the development of backward countries, we are still facing the position of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. That is an eternal problem, one which this Government is facing and one which this Government hopefully will be able to face even more squarely when funds from taxpayers' pockets can flow in more liberally as the economy improves. 
It has been obvious to me in past years from letters that I have received from my area which is in the country that there are people all over Australia who are tremendously concerned about the level of overseas aid we provide. Of course, the Asian Development Bank is one of the main channels through which we are able to provide funds for developing countries. Despite the fact that Australians are thought of by some people as being ocker and philistine, we are people who are concerned with the region. As I said, I certainly hope that the 0.7 per cent of gross national product, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  suggests as being our medium term aim in relation to overseas aid, can be met as soon as is humanly possible. Despite the fact, however, that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting relatively poorer, there is some light at the end of the tunnel, and that is so for various reasons. The increase in gross national product per head of population in *he underdeveloped countries is now running at about 3 per cent, and that is markedly different to the situation which prevailed 10 years ago. I emphasise that I am taking into account the fact that the population in those countries increases substantially each year. I am talking about the gross national product per head of population. 
The Bank, as a contributor to the region, is important in terms of diplomacy. It adds to the hopes that we have towards achieving mutual co-existence in the area. It is not so many years since quite a few of the countries in South-East Asia were belligerent towards one another for one reason or another. Australia's policy at present has been quite clearly enunciated. It was done originally by the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he was in Japan recently, and certainly it has been enunciated more clearly than it ever had been before. That policy of making trade a far more important part of foreign policy is tremendously important for us. The pattern of power in this region has shifted in the past few years from what could be described as the power of colonialism and imperialism. There is still a sense of that sort of power in some areas, such as the communist areas in South-East Asia. In general terms that pattern has shifted, however, to the point where we are all beginning to realise that we need one another, that we need to be friends because we need one another's economies for trade and for mutual assistance. 
Since 1966 the Asian Development Bank in general has been rather conservative, and I commend it for that conservatism. Its original president was a Japanese. I imagine that, in part, his appointment was an accommodation because I understand that the Japanese would have liked the headquarters of the Bank to be located in Japan. Frankly, I am very pleased that the headquarters are located in Manila. It is geographically more central and it is situated in a country which is struggling to develop. There have been 2 further Japanese presidents since the first. 1 pose the question: Why can we not have an Australian president in the near future? Australia is one of the countries that should be well considered to provide the next president of the Bank. We are the fourth largest contributor to the Bank and, after Japan, the next 2 largest contributors probably would not qualify- America, because it is well outside the region, and India because many of its contributions are in non-convertible currencies. I think that is something which the Government should look at when the presidency next becomes vacant. The Government should consider pushing forward an Australian to fill the position because it is important to us to show that we are very much part of this region and that we want to contribute not only our money but also our expertise in management. 
I suppose when one looks at lists of contributions and details of lending in a body such as the Asian Development Bank one can find anomalies. I have examined these aspects in the last day or two. Despite the fact that some people have said that there are biases in one direction or another, it seems that basically because of what I imagine to be the Bank's conservatism the deals it makes have looked pretty reasonable to those countries which most need the money. It could be alleged, I imagine, that Indonesia has had a little bit more than its fair share. Perhaps that is because the Indonesians are better negotiators than we are. 
I would like to commend the Bank in relation to one matter in particular. In spite of the fact that Bangladesh has a very low gross national product per head of population- it is of the order $US1 10 per head each year- and in spite of the fact that Bangladesh has been able to contribute only 0.59 per cent of the total funds contributed to the Bank, it has received 1 1 per cent of the loans. Today happens to be Bangladesh's national day. I think it is probably worth mentioning that it is one country which is of particular importance to us in the region, not only because we have close relationships with it but also because it is one of those countries which suffered such ravages in recent years and therefore is probably the country which needs more assistance per head of population than does just about any other country in the region. 
If one were looking for other anomalies one might also note, without in any way trying to be controversial, that it would appear from the annual reports that quite high administrative costs are incurred. Perhaps that sort of expenditure can be justified in the operations of an international bank whose staff has to travel a great deal. But I also note that the average salary of the directors and alternative directors- I am not sure whether in fact the alternative directors work a full year- is just under $50,000 a year. Perhaps that is reasonable. Altogether there are 23 people holding these positions- 12 directors and 11 alternative directors. 
There is another oft-stated anomaly which I probably should mention just briefly, and that is that Japan obtains about 40 per cent of the total procurement available through the Bank. I fully realise that Japan is a country which has tremendous expertise. However, I wonder why it obtains 40 per cent of the procurement while Australia receives only 2 per cent. 
The Asian Development Bank provides benefits to Australia also. We must remember, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has mentioned, that the humanitarian reasons for the existence of the Bank are of prime importance. The benefits to Australia, devolve around the work that can be done by Australian construction services and by other Australian consultants. As I mentioned, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation is actively involved. It has carried out 7 projects commissioned by the Asian Development Bank and 4 other projects for clients of the Bank. In fact one project which is about to commence in April in Afghanistan involves some appraisal work for the Karma irrigation project I should mention also that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has had a little trouble with the Bank in one respect. The Corporation had carried out 75 per cent of its work completed when the war moved into Cambodia and all further work was stopped. I note that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation did not receive any payment for the work it had done. 
As the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  said last night, there is still a great deal of scope for Australian private enterprise in the field of consulting work through the Bank. Australians are not known as being great public relations people in the international scene but we are known for our expertise, especially in the engineering field. It is in that direction that so much of the funds of the Asian Development Bank goes. 
We are known throughout the world for many of the things that we have innovated in the field of engineering. We have carried out many projects in Australia where we have been able to teach the world how to do things. I urge all Australian consulting firms that feel that they are big enough to carry out work for the Bank to get themselves or an agent to Manila to register and to do some public relations work. We can stand up against the rest of the world when it comes to engineering expertise. Of course Australia in this sense will receive continuing benefit from the devaluation of last year. Nobody is saying that devaluation will help everybody. We know why it was done. We also know that we did not want to do it. Nevertheless, having had to do it, one of the good things is that it makes the cost of our engineering services overseas cheaper. I know that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has already benefited from that. 
Australia also benefits from the trade that some of the projects through the Bank have created. For instance, in South Korea the Pohang steelworks was largely built and extended through funds from the Bank and we have been able to export iron ore and coal to those steelworks. Perhaps most importantly the Asian Development Bank in its benefits to Australia has given us goodwill in Asia. For too many years we did not even go to Asia. But that is changing. We feel more and more these days that we are not so much part of Europe but part of Asia. I am pleased that Australia is continuing to pull its weight in the Asian Development Bank, putting more funds in, committing more to future budgets. At last we are realising our part in Asia. We are being increasingly involved through our people and through our trade. We have developed again good diplomatic relations and we have cleaned up some of the nasty parts of the Whitlam Administration in that respect in that area. I fully commend our contribution. It adds to our effort in this field. I look forward as time goes on to Australia contributing more and more because of the benefits to the area and to Australia. 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that a large number of migrants to Australia of recent years have brothers, sisters and children over 18 years of age who wish to migrate to Australia, who would have guaranteed jobs in Australia, who are industrious and energetic but who are precluded from entry because of our present extremely tight migration quota? Will the Minister be considering having a major increase in the migration quota in the coming year in areas such as I described? 
I should like to say briefly that it is a very grave step when a government such as ours gets involved in the possibility of regulating a market. I can assure the chamber that I know the Minister for Primary Industry took this grave step only after realising the very strong fears of many of the producers that to some extent they were being exploited. That fear may well not have been reasonable, but nevertheless when we do have a number of companies involved in the export market who have a base overseas there is always that possibility that those polynationals can shunt profits overseas. I can quite understand the feelings of many of the producers who said we do need some sort of operation in the market, such as the proposed Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, to provide the right sorts of safeguards. That is one of the reasons why this 
Bill seeks to set up that Corporation. This clause, however, is couched in terms that one would tend to expect from the coalition parties. It states that the Corporation shall not engage in trade otherwise than in a manner which accords with commercial practice. This should provide some reassurance to the exporters who may see this clause as a possible means to bite into their markets on illegitimate grounds. 
If I were to say that the performance of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on these amendments was lacklustre it would be a complete over-statement. Getting back to the direction of this amendment, I think I should mention for the information and elucidation of the large number of cattle producers from the Cattleman's Union of Australia who have been lobbying in the halls of this Parliament in recent weeks and who have been talking about the problems in this legislation with regard to ministerial direction that this insertion into the legislation that the Australian Labor Party would like to make really gives the lie to the Labor Party. It wants to give the Minister the power to give directions. In just about every case where ministerial discretion is provided for in the Bill the Minister has the power to review, the power to veto and the power to consult. The amendment is typical of the big blanket Labor Party clause. We remember that before the last election the Australian Labor Party was inserting a similar blanket clause in so many Acts relating to so many fields of endeavour in Australia because of its aim to gain more power. 
It wants power over the means of production, distribution and exchange. I hope that the people in the Cattlemen's Union who, as I said, have been talking a great deal about ministerial discretion will note just where the aims of the Labor Party really are. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) When will separate statistics be published combined in Queanbeyan office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Why are Australian Capital Territory employment statistics included with the New South Wales statistics, and when will they be published separately. 
When will his Department publish unemployment statistics indicating the number of adults and juniors unemployed. 
Why was publication of the number of unemployment benefit recipients at Bega discontinued in June 1 976. 
My question is also addressed to the Minister for Immigration and refers to a statement in the Budget Speech last week which said: 
The Government has decided not to set a specific immigration program for 1977-78 but to determine in-take on the basis of numbers of eligible applicants. 
I ask the Minister whether he will comment on that apparently more flexible scale of numbers of immigrants. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  is worth following because he does command a great deal of respect in this House. However, he strayed slightly when he spoke in such emotional terms in his speech just now about class conscious societies. That is one of the things that this Government is trying to get away from, but still the honourable member tried to brand us as the sort of people who would create divisions and class conscious societies. I was poignantly reminded during the honourable member's speech of a discussion I had during the dinner adjournment with a panel beater in Queanbeyan, which is a good average Australian city. The panel beater drew my attention to the fact that the Whitlam Government, more than any other Government for many years, created a class conscious society in this country. The Whitlam Government put great emphasis on Johnny being a doctor as distinct from Johnny being a panel beater. 
About the Whitlam Government? 
-I suppose I should not have said that. I realise that the honourable member for Scullin is a doctor and he would be aware of the great esteem in which his profession is held by the mothers and fathers who want Johnny 'to do better'. The class conscious society was created to a great extent in recent years by the Whitlam Government. It believed that people were better if they earned more money or if they had a better formal education. I believe that the present Government is getting away from that and moving towards the day when Australians will be measured on their merits, on the merits of how much they produce and how much they try to help other people in society. 
That is the way this Government acts. This Budget as with the previous Budget, has been a very difficult one for the Government. It has tried to straighten out some of the worst faults in the direction taken by the previous Government. That statement is often made at question time, and in the view of some members of the public it is said too often. I do not believe that it is said too often. 
One of the things that can be said with great pride is that this Government since the end of 1975, when it was required by the nation to straighten out the management of this country, has proved to be a government of good management. People have so often said that one of the reasons a Liberal-National Country Party government is elected is that it is a good management government. That fact is well known. I wonder whether some of the people on my side remember often enough the achievements of this Government during 20 months in office. The Budget for the year 1976-77 predicted certain things which were laughed at by the other side. It predicted that inflation would come down in that period by 4 per cent or 5 per cent per annum. In his speech last night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  and I do not like to use this word, was mendacious when he said that inflation had risen during that period. We know it has not. The housewives of Australia who buy their groceries know that it has not. They know that it has come down. The managers know that it has come down. The people in the street to whom the Leader of the Opposition does not relate also know it. The increase in the volume of money as predicted in the 1976-77 Budget is between 1 0 per cent and 1 2 per cent. 
Another doctor interjects. The increase in the volume of money was set at about 10&amp; per cent, as predicted. Productivity per man or woman was predicted to rise in this period by 4 per cent. This was completely different from the results achieved by the previous Government, which managed through its conniving and tampering with the Australian economy to achieve negative productivity for the first time for many years, if not probably for the first time ever in Australia. Productivity was predicted to go up by 4 per cent and according to the Budget Papers it rose by  Vh  per cent. However, this is provisional and the figure may well be adjusted upwards. The statistics on inflation, money supply and productivity show that the predictions for each was very close to spot on. So this is a government of good management which is exactly the basis on which the people elected us. 
I turn now to the rates of inflation under the previous government. I know that this is a little unkind of me but in 1974 under the previous government the quarterly changes in the consumer price index were 2.4 per cent, 4. 1 per cent, 5.1 per cent and 3.8 per cent. In 1975 they included 3.6 per cent, 3.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent. All these figures were above what we used to attain in a single year before then. In the last quarter of 1975 the increase in the consumer price index was 5.6 per cent. Then suddenly be-' cause we had to bite the bullet, as everybody says, things started to turn around. And it was sudden. In 1976 the figure fell to 3 per cent in the first quarter, 2.5 per cent in the second quarter 2.2 per cent in the third quarter and 2.8 per cent in the fourth quarter. The increases in the CPI in the first two quarters of this year were 2.3 per cent and 2.4 per cent. We have suffered because the people wonder why they cannot have things on a plate as easily as they used to under Labor. It is not easy for this Government to stand up to the people without the extravagant schemes of the previous government, but we were elected because we were good managers. We know that what comes in has to go out and vice versa. 
Not all of the things that at this time last year we wanted to achieve have happened. Unemployment has not come down as we had hoped. When we compare the earnest attempt by this Government in recent weeks before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with the earnest attempt by the Opposition to promote wage rises as being somehow desirable, it is obvious that this Government wants to get unemployment down. I can appreciate why the Opposition does not want to get unemployment down. It can see electoral advantage in having agitation by the people against this Government. In every forum the Opposition says, in as many words: 'We do not want unemployment to come down; we do not want good management; we do not want inflation to come down further; we do not want productivity to keep rising'. It realises that good management means that it will stay on the Opposition benches. What the Opposition really wants is to be in government and not for Australia to be well managed. 
In relative terms Australia is prospering. At the moment the country is not running as well as we all would like. But in an electorate such as mine the people are realising that basically they are prospering. The people know that there has been an increase in disposable income in the last 12 months for the average person. I am talking here in terms of real purchasing power as distinct from some rather obscure statistics that the captain of the Australian Labor Party keeps producing on television. The statistics show an increase in disposable income. They show that there has been an increase in company profits- not spectacular but nevertheless an increase. In percentage terms it is spectacular but of course after the Labor disaster we started from a very low base. The statistics show that in relative terms pensioners, the disadvantaged, the handicapped and the sick have benefited since Labor went out of office.Theyare  the people  about whom Labor so mendaciously says it cares for but really does not. We have achieved at great cost but to our electoral advantage great increases in all these economic indicators within the framework of producing greater social justice. This Budget records that fact. 
The fight is on against inflation. It is a tremendously difficult fight. Of itself, inflation does not matter; it is the problems that inflation brings in the economy that matter. It is a very big fight. Again we have the captain of the Australian Labor Party, who is determined not to get inflation down, speaking in the Press about increases in wages. We who have some practical experience in the field know what happens when wages go up more quickly than productivity. We are fighting against inflation. This is difficult without the necessary powers. I will quote now what was said by one of the Laurel and Hardy team referred to in question time this morning when he introduced the Budget in 1975. He said: 
We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in unemployment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
I am not quite sure what has happened to his brain since, but certainly when he said that he was spot on. Again, referring to inflation, I have another quotation but I do not quote accurately this time because I do not know what the Bishop of Lisieux said in the 14th century. However, it was something to the effect that bad money forces people to save good money. It is probably difficult for those honourable members opposite to understand but that is what has been happening today. 
The Labor socialist strategy- and I must give the Labor Party credit not for its policies but for being openly socialist these days- is that the Government should spend a lot more money. The Labor Party always says that. It argues therefore that we should raise more taxes. The other member of the Laurel and Hardy team said quite recently in a statement that he would increase taxes if he were the Treasurer. This is the Labor socialist strategy. They do not seem to have ever had to manage money. Most of them have never been in the situation of having to cope with money. That is what the Budget is all about. 
One of the things about which I would like to speak just briefly, in case some of the economists in the Parliament do not mention it, is high interest rates. One of the things that flows on from inflation and the typical Labor policies of high deficits is the problem of high interest rates. We are still grappling with that problem. If honourable members look at the accounts set out in the Budget Papers they will see that last year the Government had to raise a great deal of money to cover the Budget deficit. The money which the Government had to raise affected the alternate uses to which that money could have been put. Under the heading of 'Other Financial Transactions' it had to raise $132m. That included money used from Government trust accounts et cetera and it could have been used in the open market for other reasons. The net gain to the Government from savings bonds was $366m, minus $87m the other way in treasury notes, and $ 1,494m from other loans- and that refers mainly to Commonwealth inscribed stock and treasury bonds. A total of about $ 1,905m had to be taken out of circulation so that the Government could finance all those programs which people had been taught to want. Do not forget that the Government also has facing it a large amount, a record amount, of maturing loans this year, $l,710m for Commonwealth inscribed stock and treasury bonds, and a large amount on top of that, probably around $100m, for special bonds and other maturing stock. That amount of $ 1,905m will be reduced this year because of stringencies in the Budget to reduce the deficit. 
We should always remember that the raising of large sums of money by the Government from the public has a tremendous effect on interest rates. It is not the only thing that has an effect on interest rates but in the present context it is one of the most important factors keeping up interest rates. One of the things that happens when interest rates are high- I know this because I was in this situation- is that young couples in Australia find that they cannot afford to buy a house. They might be able to raise the deposit but when they look at the repayments which include the interest rates, the cost of interest, they cannot afford them. One of the big factors that has been pulling back the housing industry in recent times is the high cost of money. High interest rates are a great cost also to business investment. In normal times if a person can make 15 per cent on his money he is prepared to go ahead with a business investment and is therefore able to employ more people. If he has to pay 14 per cent or 15 per cent for money it is a great discouragement. Interest rates depend upon a number of things. The deficit is only one thing but in present times it is probably the most important factor. The very solid achievement of the Government in bringing back the deficit in this Budget will go a long way towards lowering interest rates. 
I would like to speak about this subject for a long time because I think that the interest rate at present is one of the most important things which the Government should attack within the parameters within which it can work. Of course, the Government cannot unilaterally pull down interest rates. I am running out of time in which to speak so I just reiterate that because of previous Budgets, the Budgets of the Whitlam Government as compared with the last two Budgets, we can see that the Opposition really does not seem to have ever had to manage. I have said that before in this speech. The Opposition does not appreciate what creates unemployment. It does not appreciate what people mean when they say to me that they have cut down the staff at their motel from ten to six and they are still managing somehow. They will never put those people back on again. The Opposition does not appreciate what a person in the construction industry in my electorate said the other day. He told me that he had cut his crew from 25 to eight and is still managing. The Opposition does not appreciate any of these things. All it appreciates is the denigration of genuine tax reform. All it appreciates is playing around with the Australian people for political ends. It cannot appreciate what the working people of Australia are all about. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Oxley (  Mr Hayden),  having recently junketed up and down the Queensland coast telling lies to farmers, apparently is going back to his electorate. That statement is quite easy to substantiate. I should like to speak for a couple of minutes about what I consider to be a very serious subject. Tonight the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  was pulled up by the Chair for using the word piddling' during a speech. Last night the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Oxley knows that that is - 
This debate which continues tonight after an absence from the House of one week has been described in the interim by some of the newspapers as having been shallow. I can appreciate what the Press means when it says that the debate has been shallow. I fear that the Press probably does not appreciate that in this House it is impossible to go into all the scientific and technical aspects of the problems of uranium. The things that we talk about are political. They are the things that affect people. Our job is to talk about things that are political. It would be possible for members to talk in this House on the scientific points of view relating to uranium, but I think it is important that we confine our comments to the political points of view because the effects of the Government's decision on the mining and export of Australian uranium are essentially political. They affect people. 
Last Wednesday I sat in the House for quite some time listening to the debate. Like so many people on this side of the House I have been through an agonising period in which I have given a tremendous amount of thought to the implications of uranium mining and export, especially because views from both sides have been put so cogently in the Press and other media. I was amazed to hear last Wednesday one or two Opposition speakers trying to make political points; not points to do with people but points merely to smear the Government. For instance, I was amazed by a statement by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  He said, in a ridiculing sense, that the members of the Government were unanimous about this measure. He thought that was stupid. Why should members of the Government not be unanimous about the decision? I believe that on the grounds of logic the Government has made the right decision. There has been a great deal of agonising amongst members of the Government over this decision. 
In my electorate I have tried as hard as I could-I suppose that is about as hard as a human being could do- to get the views of people. Many of those people, of course, do not have full access to the facts, but all of them have access to an ability to think. I must say that throughout my electorate there was general support, even before the decision of the Government, for the principle that we should mine and export uranium, not because it would create more wealth for this country but because it is in the best interests of mankind. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  seems to have sensible views on some aspects of industry. He seems to have the employment problems in his electorate at heart. He seems to be a reasonably good Australian. I do not think he is as Irish as he thinks he is. He said that if 40 times the number of nations have bombs the risk is 40 times as great. I must say also that that is the sort of Ulogie that some of the anti-uranium people have tried to put on the people in my electorate. Nobody is advocating any increase in the number of nations which have bombs. We on this side of the House are saying that the selling of uranium will not affect the number of nations which have bombs. The nations which want bombs will have them, irrespective of whether Australia exports uranium. What has our exporting of uranium to do with whether the Israelis and the Arabs have a conflict? That is the sort of emotional statement that the honourable member for Port Adelaide, who is normally reasonable, brought out in his speech last Wednesday. 
-It is not in my electorate. One of the things that the people are saying- I think that it is a very sensible thing for them to be saying- is that if we had not reached the stage in our technology at which it was possible to produce a nuclear bomb, it would have been a darned good thing. The fact is that we reached that stage. The fact remains that a large number of people say that, the scientists having produced this terrible weapon, one of the good things that happened towards the end of World War II was that a bomb was dropped on Hiroshima. These days that is almost a terrible thing to say. In the last two weeks a dozen or so ex-serviceman have told me individually that that was the fact that saved their lives and the lives of many others. 
One of the people who said it to me was in Japan at the time. Nobody wants lives lost in any circumstances. The fact remains that some of these things that we pussyfoot around because of trendy ideas that are turned up at Labor Party annual meetings in Perth are things that might go against what is very dear to the hearts of some Australians. Most of us would agree that the bomb should not have been invented, but having been invented it saved many lives. 
We know it did, and that is the tragedy. I am pleased to answer that interjection because, as I said, I, like so many other people, have agonised over this problem. It killed a lot of people. It killed a lot of innocent people. People such as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition should remember that there are other sides to the coin. This is the same in any political judgment. As I said at the beginning of this speech, we are talking about political judgments. 
I do not know why members of the Labor Party seem to have such mixed feelings about this problem. Rex Connor, who died last month, was one person who passionately believed in the export of our uranium. Why do so many people in the Opposition want to go to the people, having had this long farce, and say that they have changed their minds? Why is it that one week uranium is a source of energy that will benefit mankind, and why is it not the next week? Is it because enough rabid people in the Opposition who can see just political advantage can convince their colleagues that they might win votes? I suspect that they will not win votes. I hope they have agonised over their decisions. To have turned their minds through 180 degrees so suddenly makes one cynical about the decisions made in Perth-the decisions made by other people, such as  Mr Hawke,  who appear to have influence in the Labor Party. Why have those people decided so suddenly to change their minds? 
Many points have been argued in this House. I say quite categorically that I probably have a great deal more ammunition in terms of the scientific facts than most honourable members. But in terms of logic there is one point which has not been mentioned during the debate. It is one of many. There are points on both sides but, as I said, the biggest point is that if this technology had not been discovered we would have been better off. But it has been discovered. Professor Baxter made one point that I should mention. Professor Baxter would, of course, be castigated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  because he is in favour of doing what we on this side of the House happen to think should be done. But he made one point very succinctly - 
-I shall tell the honourable member, and I shall tell him slowly so that he can understand. I shall tell him again later because he probably will not understand. Professor Baxter said that if less uranium is available in a world in which we are looking for better energy technologies during the interim period when we will try to produce technologies that are far less harmful than the potentials for uranium, there will be more pressure on some of the other energy resources, for instance, on fossil fuels and particularly oil resources. He has made the point that if less uranium is available many of our countries will have to depend more and more on oil. There are some lucky countries, such as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which have plenty of oil and plenty of uranium. 
-Of course they do; they take it from all their satellites. That country would be in a position, as oil dried up and as uranium was not available, of having oil and of forcing some of the countries in need of oil to undertake a precipitous act and to go out and get it. He has made the point that a shortage of uranium in the interim period before there are alternative sources of energy could mean a world disaster. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who said he wanted to listen, has not been listening; he has been talking. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  whose mind I do respect, asks: 'Do you believe that other nations would always honour the agreements with Australia subsequent to our exporting uranium to them?' I should like to know whether the honourable member believes that in the next 500, 1,000 or 2,000 years-well within the half life of most toxic nuclear fuels- if we do not mine uranium there could not be somebody who, with a shortage of oil, would say: 'We want that uranium from Australia'? If we look at the long term, as the honourable member for Hotham did in his speech, we are looking at all sorts of hypotheses. One of the things we have to remember is that nationalities change and the rulers of nations change as circumstances change. I should like to quote one other person, namely, Professor Arndt. 
The honourable member might like to give me an extension of time. I should like to quote Professor Arndt, who is a man whom I have respected for many years. He speaks about a similar situation existing when fluoridation was being introduced into the United States. He states: 
Scores of inquiries had been held, hundreds of reports written, expert testimony carefully sifted. The overwhelming evidence was that fluoridation greatly improved dental health without any adverse side effects. It all made no difference to the opponents. If they could find one dentist to take the opposite view, they dismissed all other professional opinion on the ground that 'the experts disagree'. In the 1950s an exasperated city engineer in a mid- Western city in the USA announced that the city's water supply would be fluoridated as from the first of March. All through March the letters of protest poured in: People's hair was falling out, pregnant women lost their babies, virgins became pregnant, fractures would not heal, bones became brittle, etc., etc. At the end of March the engineer announced that the water had never been fluoridated. In May fluoridation was carried out with overwhelming public support in that city. But antifluoridation fanatics elsewhere continued the good fight, unmoved and do so still. 
From whom do we take advice? Do we take it from the Opposition, the people who turn about face just to get votes, or do we take it from the scientists? The overwhelming view amongst scientists is that we must mine and export uranium. The overwhelming view amongst international strategists is that we must mine and export uranium. It will do us no harm and will do mankind a great deal of good. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (9.15)-In my opinion this debate on the ministerial statements concerning the Australian Government's uranium policy is the most important moral issue that has been debated in this House in post-war Australian history. It certainly is the most important debate in which I have taken part since the Vietnam War. These ministerial statements do indicate that a precipitate decision has been taken by this Government without sufficient public debate in Australia and without sufficient negotiations overseas. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  said that he wanted to approach the subject on the grounds of logic. I agree that we should try to do that. I agree also with the honourable member's statement that we would have been better off if this technology had never been developed. However, I do not think he will find many honourable members on his side of the House who will agree with that because the whole trend of their arguments has always been against that belief. They have told us what a wonderful thing uranium is. It is nice to hear someone making the admission made by the honourable member for EdenMonaro. 
I want to approach this subject on the grounds of logic because I believe that the mining and export of uranium by the Australian Government without commitments by customer countries to apply effective, reliable and verifiable safeguards does not measure up to the requirements of the Fox Report. In my opinion they do not measure up to the wishes of the great majority of Australians. It is bad enough that we do not have safeguards for the peaceful use of uranium; it is worse that we have no verifiable assurances that our uranium will not be diverted and be used for military purposes. At best, these ministerial statements are the most callous statements that have been presented to this House since the Vietnam War. No doubt customer countries will pay high prices to use our uranium for peaceful purposes, but it is likely that if they can use it for military purposes they will pay a much higher price for it. 
We all know that we have been presented a rubbery Budget- no one knows in what shape it will finish up. But that is not good enough; there is no excuse for finding this way out. It is nonsense for honourable members on the Government side to say that the Opposition is scaremongering when it points out the callous deficiencies in the Government's uranium policy. The danger will not go away simply because we pretend it is not there. If you jump over the gap with your eyes closed you will hit the bottom just as hard as you would with your eyes open. The result will be the same with the Government's uranium policy. 
The television program  Four Corners  indicated the dangers to human life and the environment associated with the disposal of radioactive waste under normal circumstances. Because of these dangers there is no doubt that we need more time. If we get plugged into the international nuclear system the consequences will be around for thousands of years. We need more time to be sure of what we are really doing. A wait of a few more years, when compared with the thousands of years that radioactive deposits will be around, will make no difference. What we should do is pause and consider what is contained in the often repeated recommendations in the Fox report. One of the recommendations states: 
There should be ample time for public consideration of this report, and for debate upon it. We therefore recommend that no decision be taken in relation to the foregoing matters until a reasonable time has elapsed and there has been an opportunity for the usual democratic processes to function, including in this respect, parliamentary debate. 
The Government has not given as much consideration to this debate as it has given to the Trade Practices Act. That Act was foreshadowed for months. It was introduced into this House but it lapsed when the Parliament was dissolved. It was then re-introduced. 
The television program  Four Corners  last weekend showed that there was as yet no way to solidify high level wastes and store them safely. We are right to agree with the Fox report and insist that these matters not be left to the socalled experts. The ordinary people of this world and the unborn generations will suffer the conse- quences of any blunders made in the peaceful development of uranium. Because nuclear technology in the world is still in the infancy stage, blunders from peaceful development of uranium must take place; they will take place. There is no guarantee that an accident will not occur. But what would happen in the case of hurried military preparations? Who can give a guarantee that our uranium will not be used for military purposes? Time is needed so that we can study all the hazards of nuclear development? 
After careful consideration over 2 years, the Commissioners on the Fox inquiry conclude on page 335 of their report that even though a final decision is vested in the Government, the Ranger mine project, as presently conceived, should not go ahead. If the Government decides to go ahead with a mine at Ranger, the Fox report proposes 25 conditions under which mining could take place. Those conditions present innumerable difficulties to the opening of a new mine. They imply restraints on the emission of waste and control by a supervisory authority that would be hostile to the efficient day to day operation of the mine. Those conditions, if fully applied, would make mining uneconomic. For example, one of the stipulated conditions is that the Ranger mine would have to place tailings and stockpiles of low grade ore back into the pits after milling stopped. That would be a massively expensive operation. Obviously the company would have to be compelled to carry out its obligations. As one travels around Australia one sees great dumps of mine tailings everywhere. 
Generally the second Fox report was honest also about the grave environmental hazards associated with all aspects of the nuclear industry. Chapters 6 and 7 of the second report provide large amounts of material critical of the proposed uranium rnining projects. Problems such as waste seepage and radiation emission are fully detailed. Yellowcake dust pollution is revealed to be a major problem, both for the mine workers and for people living in the vicinity of the mine. These environmental pollution problems led to the Ranger Commission's suggestion for the modification of the Ranger mine proposal. The second Fox report also expressed concern about health hazards to the mine workers. That would be particularly relevant if the third stage of the proposed Ranger mine were underground. Underground mining greatly increases the cancer risk from radioactive radon dust. 
Government supporters have told us that there is no more danger from mining lead or from mining coal. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  is not in the chamber. I do not mean to denigrate him in any way, but he issued a challenge. I read from  Hansard  what he said in the debate recently. When referring to a member of the Opposition, he said-. 
He talked about leukaemia and made great generalisations as members of the Opposition are prone to do. But I am not aware of one single shred of specific evidence which can point to any person in any part of the world who is suffering a disability or an illness as a result of either the mining of uranium oxide or ore or from being associated with its treatment. The challenge has gone out. I repeat it again. No doubt many speakers are still to come from the Opposition side. Let them produce one shred of evidence. 
I pick up the challenge offered by the honourable member for Kennedy, because I suppose I am the only member in the House who has a miner's ticket. I have a hard rock miner's ticket. I do not know whether the honourable member for Kennedy has one, but if he has he certainly must have been in some good stakes because he does not have a mark on him. My brother used to work in the mines. He worked in uranium mines and he had more than his share of ill health. He died of cancer. I am not saying that his death had anything to do with uranium, because I had a brother-in-law who worked in the mines. He died at a much younger age, also of cancer. It is hard to prove these things. However, there are hundreds and probably thousands of miners who have worked in the mines from their eighteenth year until they have retired at 62 years of age; their full working life of 44 years is spent in mines. I challenge honourable members on the Government benches to produce one man who has worked in the uranium mines for that long, because it is not recommended that people do that. In any case, our uranium mines have been worked for 20-odd years only. 
I go a little further with this challenge. I have in my office at Broken Hill all mineral samples. I would like to know how many Government supporters, including the honourable member for Kennedy, have yellowcake in their sample chests. If honourable members opposite are still not satisfied about the truth of what I am saying, let me refer them to what the miners say is the real proof. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. If the honourable member for Kennedy will eat a pound of yellowcake, I will eat a pound of lead. Now there is the test. Honourable members opposite know that it is a lot of rubbish to say that the rnining of yellowcake is no more dangerous than the rnining of lead or of any of these other minerals. 
The greatest revelation of all has not been made in the debate which has been taking place in this House; it has been the report which appeared in today's  Australian Financial Review.  Every Government supporter should hang his head in shame in the knowledge that what is reported there has been thrust on decent Australians. The article, which was written by  Mr Brian  Toohey, reads: 
The  chairman  of the Uranium Producers' Forum,  Mr George  Mackay, yesterday flew to Canberra to offer the Liberal Party assistance in any forthcoming election campaign in which the future of uranium mining was at stake. 

 Mr Mackay 's offer of assistance to the Liberal Party was made at a meeting in Canberra yesterday morning with the party's federal director,  Mr Tony  Eggleton. 
What a shocking thing! What a crippling blow! 
I think it was extremely bad form for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  not to reserve his right to speak as the seconder of the amendment as most people in this House with reasonable principles would do. It would probably have been of great benefit to the people of Australia who are listening if he had just seconded the amendment and incorporated his written speech in  Hansard.  Nevertheless, I must retaliate on one or two things of a general nature that have been mentioned by the two previous speakers. Even though they refused to speak on this Bill which, as somebody said, is a machinery Bill they have been engaging in the normal Labor Party diatribe of half-truths. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  actually said that the economy is in worse shape than when the Labor Party went out of office. If he cares to look at some of the figures- not halftruths such as gross domestic product, inflation rates, company profits and real disposable incomes in this country since Labor went out of office he will see that even though the struggle is very difficult it is being won. It is being made increasingly difficult by the bitter people on the other side of the House. 
One or two of the things which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said tonight sounded rather sick to me. I fear that some of the bitterness which seems to pervade the Opposition benches is getting them away from the true problems of Australia. The honourable member talked about unemployment as though the Opposition ever cared about unemployment. It is all very well for him to come into this House at this stage and talk about great unemployment in this country. We know we have great unemployment in this country. We know it is a tremendous problem which all Australians must face. But what positive means has the Opposition put up in the last 18 months to overcome this problem. I could certainly mention a few negative means. It derided the Government when it asked the Conciliation and Arbitation Commission to keep down wage increases. Opposition members who do not relate to the working man in this country anymore should talk to some of the working people. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  is laughing. He takes pride in the fact that he used to be a truck driver. There are plenty of truck drivers in my electorate and plenty of truck drivers all over Australia. They are working men. They are people who worry about how much their wives and children are going to have. The man who is laughing does not really care about them. 
The last two honourable members who spoke in this debate apparently think , that all this tremendous increase in public expenditure about which they speak so regularly m this place, is going to fall out of the sky. Who will pay for the extra public expenditure? Will it be the Government that will pay? No, it will not be the Government; it will be the taxpayer. The taxpayer will have to pay and he will have much less money to spend if he has to pay higher taxes. The Lord knows that there are enough people on the other side who have said recently that we must raise taxes so that we can cover some of this increased public expenditure. The honourable member for Adelaide, who I believe is some sort of economic spokesman for the other side, often says that we must raise taxes. The sorts of things that we on this side of the House are doing are designed to bring taxes down. The evidence of that is right in the Budget this year and on 1 February next year the people of Australia wa recognise this when they receive their pay packets. 
Let me return to this machinery Bill which is a repeat, in its basic terms, of Bills that have gone through since 1970 when a Government of the same colour as the present Government decided that it would assist the States to some extent by putting through what normally would have been loan funds without interest payments from the States. That was a reasonably generous sort of offer and in terms of the amount of money being offered in this Bill-$477m-it will save the States, even at present interest rates of 10 per cent or more, around $50m per annum. That has been going on since 1970 and it is the sort of thing that one would expect from a Government or our colour. Half truths have been coming out of the mouths of the two previous speakers who have been talking about no increase in funding to the States this year. They seem to be following the myth that the New South Wales Premier has been putting around in the newspapers recently. Fancy saying that there has been no increase in real funds to the States this year! AU anybody has to do is to look at the figures. It is quite easy. 
We are talking about a total this year of some $5,775m in total funds to the States, and that includes loan funds which admittedly have been slightly trimmed. It also includes general revenue funds, and that is a substantial increase. It is an increase of 13.8 per cent on last year. That increase is greater than the rate of inflation. It means that the State governments have more to spend in real terms on some of their own programs than they had last year. Some people wm probably speak after me about the Government's federalism pokey and ask whether some of the things that we do for the States are worthwhile, because all we seem to get from some of the Premiers is criticism in face of the fact that they are receiving more funds from the Federal Government. I repeat that they are not our funds; they are taxpayers funds. We have to raise them from somebody out of his pay packet. 
It is most disturbing to read that some of the funds find their way from the Federal Government to the States, for projects where there is 100 per cent funding such as under the National Roads Act, and in Queensland the Premier puts up signs along the road saying 'Another Queensland Government project'. I do not know why he has to do that. I do not know why he has to waste money on any signs. The New South Wales Government receives money from us for  rural local roads but it wants to reduce its matching funds so that the overall rural local roads funding this year may not increase by as much as we would hope. We had the same battle last year and it looks as though it is on again this year. I just wonder what the New South Wales Government thinks about federal funding. I wonder what the New South Wales Government thinks about funding in general especially in country areas when examples such as that which I have just mentioned keep coming up. I have been getting slightly off the track. Talking about roads and federal funding to the States, the New South Wales Government took a long time to put in its rural local roads allocation priorities this year. Why did it take that Government 6 weeks longer on the allocations than it took for urban local roads, the beloved urban local roads on which the New South Wales Labor Government places such high priority? The rural local roads obviously do not matter very much. 
 In education we find that these large block funds that we are talking about tonight have been increased in general, but who gets knocked on the head over education funding when we reduce a certain amount of money for government schools this year? We do. We have reduced, by the guidelines to the Schools Commission, some $14m out of a total of $571m to government schools this year in order to assist non-government schools, which after all save the State government a great deal by their very existence. 
And the taxpayer, as the honourable member for Evans says. They save the taxpayer a certain amount of money but because we have decided that non-government schools will receive a small amount less we come in for all the cross-fire. People forget that in this Bill we are debating tonight and in our general policy the States are receiving from us an increasing amount of money in real terms. One wonders whether it is worth the effort. One wonders whether we should not give the States a greatly increased amount and say. 'We will get out of education. We will get out of roads.' I just wish that the State governments in their criticism would be a little more fair. I turn now to preschools, another area that has been mentioned a lot lately. We have not increased our funding for pre-schools this year but we received criticism and it is alleged that in New South Wales we have reduced funds for pre-schools. 
That is certainly a lie. It is an absolute lie. We have not reduced any funds for pre-schools. Why do the State governments not get stuck into the education system and look after the pre-school children, as they were bound to do for many years previously? Why are we criticised? We are increasing our overall funds to the States by a large amount in relative terms and we are still coming in for criticism. 
I conclude now because a number of other people want to speak, and that has been made difficult enough by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Reid. I would just like to reiterate to the people of Australia that this Bill confirms the fact even more that the present Government is one of decentralism. We want the people to keep as much money as possible. We want the States to have as much money as possible. That is why we brought in the tax changes in the Budget. But the money that we have to raise- we do not want to have to raise more money than we need, and that is our policyshould be spent as close to the people as possible. That is why we are helping the States as much as possible in the face of unjustifiable criticism that we seem to be receiving from those States. 
-I direct a question to the Acting Treasurer. I refer to the rather pathetic and feeble calls by the Labor spokesman on economic affairs for a public debate on the economy. I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission invited both him and the honourable member for Oxley to debate the issue on the television program This Day Tonight last evening? 
I listened with great interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  and appreciate that he, as does the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  works very hard for his electorate in the Australian Capital Territory, but he misrepresents the Government when he says that it has mistreated the people of Canberra. If one looks around this place and sees the numbers of people at work in very good occupations with good salaries, one sees that they are very well off compared with the rest of Australia Perhaps it is due partly to his very good work on their behalf, but it is certainly also due partly to the very good work of the honourable member for Canberra. 
When the honourable member for Fraser talks about recovery in 1980 as distinct from recovery earner than that in some other countries of the 
Western world, it merely attests to the fact that the previous Government made it just that much harder for this country to recover at an early date. If honourable members spoke to people who know about economic equations, about Budget deficits and balance of payments problems, they would realise that some of the difficulties that we faced at the end of 1975, and that we have not been able to solve overnight, were caused by a complete ignorance of the economic process and a complete disregard for the people, for the little men of Australia, who want only to work and achieve. 
-I do not like to have interjections by people who prefer bricks on heads, but if the honourable member will look at the position of the people of Canberra, whose rates and transportation are subsidised - 
-In their facilities, and many of them are subsidised as to their rates of pay by the general taxpayer. 
-I think we should sober up and say that the people of Canberra just had to settle down at some stage. 
Yes, they pay a lot in tax because they are all making a lot of money. But as a member of an electorate adjoining Canberra I suppose it is easy to be over-critical of the situation. It is easy for the have-nots to look inside the fence and say, 'There are the haves'. From what you see when you look around the place every Sunday morning you know that the haves do live in the Australian Capital Territory, but it is easy to be over-critical and I should not like to be so. 
We have had problems: We had the problems of the Whitlam era, when there was a takeover bid for some of the area in New South Wales; when there was a great degree of empire building, as there was in so many other Public Service areas, when the Australian Capital Territory wanted a bit more land, since it was talking about expanding very rapidly to accommodate a population of half a million. People who thought in that way did not think about the long term demography of Australia. They did not realise that partly because of the Labor Party's immigration policy and partly because of the downturn in the birth rate, Australia was growing at a rate of about 114 per cent compared with the 9 per cent at which the Labor Party wanted the Australian Capital Territory to grow. How could that sort of growth be sustained in the Australian Capital Territory when the rest of Australia was growing at only one-sixth of that rate? Where were the people to come from? Was there to be some sort of birth explosion campaign in the Australian Capital Territory? Certainly there was not going to be immigration; the Labor Party demonstrated that it was not in favour of immigration in this country. That was demonstrated clearly by the severe cutbacks that have only recently been reversed because of the change of government. 
I could be critical about a number of aspects of the Australian Capital Territory. A degree of priority is given to people in aged persons establishments in the Australian Capital Territory just because they happen to live here, even though the rest of Australia helps to pay for those facilities through taxpayers' funds. Some good things are happening in the Australian Capital Territory. The technical education authorities are showing a great deal of compassion. They reiterated to me recently that there would be plenty of opportunities open to people in Queanbeyan just across the border. Perhaps I am often far too critical about Canberra, when you belong to the have-nots and look across the fence at the haves. The Disneyland boom, as the honourable member for Canberra has often said, was most unfortunate. There cannot be rapid changes in any field of government activity without a lot of people suffering. This is what has happened in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-If the honourable member for Fraser wants to keep the Australian Capital Territory growing at 9 per cent he will do it to the detriment of a lot of people in this region in towns such as Goulburn and Cooma. The people have to come from somewhere. 
-As the honourable member for Canberra has said, this applies especially in the electorate of Fraser. This rapid growth cannot be sustained in a country which has cut down on its immigration intake because of Labor's policies, and in a country which has a rapidly decreasing birthrate. To say that people can all be stuck in one place in the government sector- people who were not there before- to the detriment of the productive manufacturing and primary industry sectors does not work. There have been unfortunate effects on Queanbeyan which is right next door. Only this week there was a deputation to one of the Ministers about the strain on some of the services because of the rate of growth. Effluent from Queanbeyan 's sewerage system pollutes the precious water of the people of Canberra; and we know how precious those people are. Those strains are evident in my electorate. We cannot be expected to provide all the money just to keep Canberra pure. Under normal country area growth rate that would not have been necessary. We could have afforded and done all those things necessary to keep the people in Canberra pure. 
There is an over-supply of flats in Queanbeyan created in large measure by the fact that there was a tremendous increase in the number of public servants who needed accommodation; the public servants who, of course, were paid for by the taxpayer. At present there is an over-supply of labour in the building industry. Again, this was caused by people who were attracted into that industry here. As I have said, this could not have gone on forever. The people of Australia who were paying for the growth of Canberra, because they pay the salaries of public servants, could not have been expected to suffer a 9 per cent growth rate. This was one of the things that the previous Government did which appeared good in Canberra. Nevertheless, the people on the south side of Canberra gave their votes to the present honourable member for Canberra who I am sure will be here for a long time. But this was one of the things done in a hasty fashion in which the equations of economics were not looked at properly. At last we are settling down to a basic, steady growth rate of 1 W per cent in some areas, but in Canberra I understand the growth is still at boom rates. 
I would like to spend the last couple of minutes of my speech pointing out that I am often critical about things that go on in Canberra, and there are many times when I do not see eye to eye with John Haslem, the honourable member for Canberra. We had a recent case when the licensing of public houses was increased. I suppose, in some measure, I was to blame in that case because I could not see why there should be some discrimination against Queanbeyan public houses as distinct from Canberra public houses. There have been a number of instances like this one. But as a member of Parliament, whose electorate adjoins the electorate of the honourable member for Canberra, I can say only that his independence and his non-party politics in favour of those people whom he represents in this place have been, as was the case when the Territory was represented by the late Jim Fraser, of great benefit to the people of the Territory. I hope that the people of Canberra will see the staff ceilings as being imposed in a responsible fashion. I hope they see that they have an independent sort of candidate who is a Liberal, who sees Australia as a country which must be able to afford these public servants and as a person who is always determined, as I have read in so many media reports, to go out and fight for those whom he represents. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health and relates to the announcement that the New South Wales Health Commission has a surplus of cars under the funding program from the Commonwealth for the community health program. I draw the Minister's attention also to the fact that the New South Wales Premier, under pressure from the State Opposition, has stated that he intends to sell these surplus cars and to use the proceeds for other purposes. I therefore ask the Minister: Will he ensure that any money from the sale of these surplus cars will be accounted to the Commonwealth and will be properly applied to the health programs required by the people of New South Wales? 
-It is tedious to have to keep reminding the public of the Labor Party's record when in office. We have a positive government at present and we do not want to have to keep doing that. We are continually asked during debates on matters of pub- Uc importance to remind the people exactly what happened under Labor. Today the picture was made even better. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  insisted on telling us that during Labor's period in office unemployment increased by 200,000 and that in the two years since it has decreased by 6,000. He is hoist with his own petard. I really do not know what political advantage the Leader of the Opposition thinks he is getting out of reinforcing what the Australian working man already knows if he is out of a job- that he is out of a job because of the Whitlam era. 
Honourable members will recall the 1974 election when the Leader of the Opposition was walking around the country saying: 'Only Whitlam can reduce unemployment by one third'. Between the June quarter m 1974 and the December quarter in the same year the unemployment rate in this country increased from 1.35 per cent to 4.46 per cent. I will admit that at the time of the 1974 election unemployment had been reduced. The Labor Party had the advantage along the way of the flow-through from the McMahon Budget of 1972 in assisting to lower unemployment. The Whitlam policies which had been so rapidly introduced in 1973 came into play around about mid 1974, and that is when we saw plenty of good, honest, Australian working people thrown out of work. The logic of the Opposition escapes me. The logic of the Opposition coming into this place and repeating to the Australian public the disaster of its years escapes me. The Australian people do remember. They do not need to be reminded. The Australian working man knows who got rid of his job. 
In the subject matter of this debate emphasis is placed on 'new economic policies'. I note the word 'policies'. Of course, the Opposition is well known for shifting and changing around. It never has one policy; it has a multiplicity of policies. It is always talking about something new, about some sort of change in order to apply a band-aid to a disaster which has just occurred. The chopping and changing to something new, the grasping to find something new that will work has not worked for the Opposition. Even in the matter of Labor Party appointments it is still chopping and changing. As we were reminded during Question Time, and since, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  must be wondering which seat he will sit in, if not two or three seats. 
The Treasurers in the Labor Party Administration seemed to be chopped and changed after every Budget. A scapegoat had to be found. There were new schemes such as the Regional Employment Development scheme. It was accepted by some local government areas as being a panacea, I suppose, for the unemployment that was rapidly building up in this country. The RED scheme was brought in; it was extended; it was chopped. There were new commissions, new inquiries and new ideas about how to change the social structure of this country to some Utopia that the academic people who run the Labor Party might like. New commissions started and finished. There were new foreign affairs policies. There was always something new; always some new friend to be made and some old friend to be thrown aside. There were new policies every day. The Australian newspapers were flooded because, I suppose, of the number of competing Press people who worked for the Whitlam Ministry. The newspapers were flooded with new ideas, new schemes and new disasters. There was a new Aboriginal affairs policy. The Labor Party said: 'We must help the Australian Aborigines. We must try to stop the tremendous degradation that has occurred to that unfortunate group of people over many years'. Those new policies degraded the Aboriginal people more than they had been degraded before. 
There were new handouts in every direction. There were new ideas that the Budget deficit could be run as if we had a bottomless pit. There were new ideas that money could be printed without creating inflation in this country. There were always new policies and always the impending and final disaster. The Australian people know about it and they will remember because the unemployed in this country were put in that situation by those new, stupid policies of the Labor Government- new medical schemes, a new free medical scheme, new ways for the Australian people to get better treatment and new ways to send people bankrupt. That is the sort of situation that we have had to try to correct by sound, stable government policies which are a change after those three years of disaster in this country. After those three years many people changed their vote; many Australian working men who had always voted Labor decided that they would not support the Labor Party any longer. Those people have not forgotten this, nor will they forget in a month's time when they have to vote again. Perhaps they will revert to voting for Labor at some time in the future if they see the true Labor personality coming out-if they see the true personality of a man who is prepared, as we are, to stand up and fight for the working men of Australia. At the present time there is no choice. The new policies- the disastrous policies- of the Labor Party are being persisted with. The unfortunate position in this country is that there is no real Opposition. There is no stable alternative to the Liberal-National Country Party Government. I suppose I would have to admit that democracy demands a reasonable alternative, but we do not have one. 
The Opposition talks about deliberate creation of unemployment. Those emotional words seem to have been picked up in certain sections of the national Press in the last couple of years. Fancy saying that our Government is deliberately creating unemployment. There is always the urge  for members of the Opposition to attach some tag of silvertail ' or ' the privileged ' to our parties. I suppose this is some scheme for the purpose of catching votes by trying to put forward the idea that we are interested in deliberately creating unemployment, so that people will have their noses kept to the grindstone and kept in fear of retrenchment. What poppycock. Let us look at what happened during 23 years of government in Australia by this coalition. How many people were out of work? The Leader of the Opposition has just admitted that an additional 200,000 people were thrown out of work in the time of his Government. Who is talking about deliberate creation of unemployment? Who are the fellow travellers of people like Halfpenny and Carmichael? Those men want to create unemployment and, ultimately, to create a revolution. Who are the people who have been game to stand up in this Parliament and deplore the industrial activity that has been going on in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia in recent months? We have not heard one word from the Opposition that the people in Victoria did not act responsibly when they threw their fellow workers temporarily or semi-permanently out of work. We heard not one word of criticism from those people sleeping on the Opposition benches. We have not heard a word about the people that they should be talking about, the workmates - 
-A few words are coming out of that large mouth at the present time. 
-On the contrary, our responsible policies have grappled with inflation and are showing signs of at last getting some stability and some long term prospects back into this country. We have grappled with inflation and, because of it, we have been unpopular in some sectors. People like me have had to go around our electorates and speak to responsible groups of school teachers about the fact that we cannot keep increasing our funding for education so rapidly. We have had to point out the fact that we have to cut back on some programs and that we have to get the Budget deficit under control for reasons of responsibility and because we want interest rates to come down. We do not want to have a monopoly on the borrowing of money in this country. Responsible government has returned. Responsible government has created a new direction in the rate of inflation- a new direction after such a rapid increase in the consumer price index quarter after quarter. In December 1972 the consumer price index was 4.5 per cent and in June 1975 it had risen to 16.9 per cent. How do honourable members opposite think the pensioners liked that? What about the people who had $4,000 or $5,000 put away for a rainy day and who found that within three years it was turned into half its previous value? How do honourable members opposite think the people who were thrown out of work felt? In the words of a previous Treasurer: One man's wage increase is another man's job? How do honourable members opposite think they felt when the Labor Party encouraged profits to be eaten away- profits that genuinely were required by small business people so that they could plough money back into their stock and their businesses and, thereby, create more jobs for more Aus.tralians. But the situation has changed. The deficit POliCY followed by this Government is working. Interest rates have shown the first sign of coming down, as we have seen in the last week. 
Here is one of the economic advisers to the Opposition who is saying that interest rates will be put up after the election. I ask honourable members to look at the direction that the consumer price index has taken in this country. Quarter by quarter, the CPI went up rapidly in the period under Labor. Of course, there was a lag and unemployment increased, just as there will be a lag now and unemployment will start dropping, as we are beginning to see. People are looking now to the banks for investment funds because they can see that we have stability back in this country. We have a Government that is interested in getting people back to the work places that they were in for so many years under our sort of Government. A hard job is being done. Stability has returned. I was reminded of this last night at a meeting in my electorate- it was not a party meeting, it was a public meeting- when we were talking about the plight of primary producers in this difficult time. After we had talked about possible government policies and all sorts of views had been put, one of my constituents said: 'We are having a terrible time at my place at the present time. We have a drought and our beef prices are down. We have had all sorts of disasters in the last couple of years through cost increases and the low prices in the market'. He said his wife wanted him to put linoleum on the kitchen floor but he could not afford it. He said he had enough problems without Whitlam getting back into power. He said that would be the straw that broke the camel's back. That is what one of the people in my electorate said. I can see just what he means. 
On my desk today I have a commendation for Government policies which has come from two groups that have been rather critical because they have been a Utile worried about short term results of our strong, stable and constant policies. The Australian Industries Development Association has commended the Government in today's  Bulletin.  The Master Builders Federation of Australia in today's  Bulletin  also has commended the Federal Government The working man of Australia who knows that this country needs the old fashioned stability that we had for so many years also knows on which side his bread is buttered. That is the way he is going to vote. He knows that the Australian Labor Party offers no stability but only new policies with chops and changes of personnel and in the direction of the Australian economy. The average working man knows that there is no stability under Labor and that is the way he will see it on 10 December. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he can expand on the answer he gave yesterday to the question asked by the honourable member for Oxley in relation to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development review of the Australian economy. 
-I would very much like to support this motion of condolence, especially in respect of  Mr Allan  Fraser who was, until quite recently, the member for my electorate of Eden-Monaro. My people in EdenMonaro would be disappointed if I did not speak on their behalf, despite the fact that  Mr Fraser  and I belonged to different parties, and express their sadness at his passing.  Mr Fraser  was one of three long-standing representatives of my electorate. Eden-Monaro has had two long-standing representatives from non-Labor parties and one from the Labor Party. I think it is probably worth recording that the people in Eden-Monaro like to settle down for a long period with a member. Certainly in the case of  Mr Fraser  it was evident, after not too many years, that the people were voting not for the Liberal Party, the National Country Party or the Labor Party but for Fraser. He acted on their behalf in this place. He was always prepared to stand up and be counted for his beliefs. That was well known throughout Eden-Monaro and I am told that it was well known in the Labor Caucus. 
The last time I saw him, before his lengthy periods in hospital at the end of last year, was on the occasion of the Queen's visit. I spoke with him at the reception in this place. As was normal for him, he asked about those people who had been his people in my electorate- the priests, the railway workers, the school teachers and his friends in the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. My people and I miss him and wish to express our sadness to his family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
There is some sort of discontinuity after the interesting latter half of the debate on security. I was thinking of touching on security and defence matters in relation to the GovernorGeneral 's Speech. Now, I do not think I will do so. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  appears to be out of his depth. I think the people who were listening to the previous debate about a very serious matter will have well and truly got that message. First of all, as most other members have done, I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on again being elected to the Chair. In the last two years you have been very helpful to the people who were described as oncers in 1975. We have learned a great deal from you. It is fair to say that we all think it is very nice to have you back in that position. I also congratulate the newly elected  Chairman  of Committees. If he proceeds in his new job with the same strength as he displayed in regard to his problems with Fraser Island he certainly will be a very strong  Chairman  of Committees. 
Despite the fact that one of the national newspapers described the Governor-General's Speech as dull, in my view it was a very positive speech which covered an extremely wide area of Australian policy for the future and touched on many areas in which we will be in a position to move soon. The past two years since the return of the coalition Government to the treasury bench has seen an adjustment of the variables in Australia. This was necessary before we could begin a strong, forward movement. As we remember and as has been repeated so often in this House- it has been well known in the voting electorate- a number of variables were right out of kilter at the end of 1975. Of course, one of the main reasons for that was the government under which we had to live in this country for three years prior to that date. 
Creeping into our economy were many new factors with which we really had not had to cope before. Inflation and interest rates were at levels we had never seen before. Government deficits, which meant that the government was spending much more than it was raising from the people in taxation, were at levels we had never seen before. We found a lack of confidence amongst the Australian people in the government of the day, and that was reflected in successive elections. A lacklustre attitude appeared in industry in  Australia. People were saying: 'If this progresses much further we will sell up and leave the country'. We found creeping into our country lacklustre attitudes amongst our younger generation. I am afraid that we have not got rid of those attitudes yet. 
The government of the day encouraged a parasite syndrome. Even now many groups in our community still think that money grows on trees and that the Government can continue to spend more and more on their causes without apparently having to raise more in taxes out of possibly the same pockets. I noticed last night that the very tone of the speech of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  which in most areas I thought was very interesting, gave even more evidence of this parasite syndrome that the Australian Labor Party would like to encourage when he started to talk about what the Government had not done in ethnic radio and what it would not do in ethnic television. Ethnic radio and ethnic television are very important to the ethnic communities of our country but they are not half as important to them as are the right and the ability of people in our society to be able to make a profit and get on in life. These peripheral issues, whilst being important, depend on raising money from taxpayers. In the context of the difficulties through which we have had to go following the Labor Party's regime, I think it is pretty fair to say that we cannot afford all these things. We certainly cannot afford them tomorrow. 
In the last two years there have been some remarkable achievements. There have been some very solid movements forward in so many of the parameters that I have mentioned. Already interest rates are beginning to come down. I could spend quite some time talking about the economy, but I am afraid I do not have that time. One of the most important changes in this country is that at last we are looking at a reasonable increase, in real terms, in the gross national product, and that is important. However, in the long run one cannot have more than one makes in real terms. Countries can borrow overseas and can import more than they export, but in the long term the general level of real production in those countries will determine their level of affluence. That is something that the coalition parties have always known. They have always seen that good business, good housekeeping, is ultimately the only way we so face the challenges of the future. As was so clearly set out in the Governor-General's Speech, we are now facing the challenges of the future with some hope of meeting them. 
In the brief time available, I should like to discuss four aspects which affect me as a member for a country electorate and which affect the country in general. I regret that I will not have time to speak about the general aspect of defence. As has been remarked in some of the newspapers, it is probably a shame that we cannot spend more time during general debates in the House and in debating the GovernorGeneral's Speech discussing this most important aspect of defence. Nevertheless, I will discuss four aspects that seem very important. In terms of economic growth, I am very pleased to see at last in the Australian community some realisation that we are looking now to the possibility of a proper restructuring of some of our industry. That has been a cry from the Opposition over the past six or nine months but the way the Opposition goes about these things it is liable to put thousands of people out of work as its acrosstheboard tariff reduction did in 1973. Anybody who is a free-trader or is looking towards a restructuring so that many of the damaging aspects of protection in this country can be done away with should remember that these things must be done in the proper context and at the proper time. 
I am very pleased about some of the things which were mentioned in the White Paper on manufacturing industry last year. I do not want to appear to quote anything out of context, and I do not think I will, when I quote this passage from the White Paper: 
Tariff reductions to induce changes in industry structure and encourage greater specialisation in industry therefore have a role to play in the process of encouraging a more efficient manufacturing industry in Australia. 
I am afraid that many politicians, including many on this side of the House, fail to see that we do need a restructuring of industry and tariffs. This is very important in my electorate of EdenMonaro which is substantially involved in export industries. While still in this context of restructuring, I would like to say that the amendments at present before the House relating to the Industries Assistance Commission and the obligation that it will have to report on the employment consequences of its reports are very good amendments. I believe we will find that the IAC will be saying on many occasions that the employment consequences of the reduction of tariffs will be good. In other words, it will be saying that the reduction of tariffs in some areas will be seen to increase employment because of the good effects of those tariff reductions on industries other than perhaps the one in question. 
Last week 1 came across one of the many anomalies in our protection policy when I was again brought face to face with the fact that our fishing industry, and I do have a lot of fishermen in my electorate, is supporting the shipyard industry. The people in the fishing industry who want to buy bigger boats in this presently challenging industry are finding that they are having to pay extra money for overseas boats because of our tariff policies. This money while finding its way into creating jobs in the shipyards is perhaps being taken away from our fishermen and will in the future be given to the Japanese fishermen or others who will be able to afford to bring big boats into our area. Too often protection has inhibited enterprise and competitive innovation in this country and has provided only an umbrella under which sweetheart wages deals can be safely consummated These changes we should all be looking forward to. I personally will be looking forward to  Sir John  Crawford's study group report into Australian industry. 
The second of the four topics that were raised in the Governor-General's Speech I would briefly like to mention is the question that has been pressing in on us concerning the 200-mile fishing zone. I have only just mentioned the fishing industry which is now bigger than many of the others which for years were the heavyweights in primary industry, and I am referring to such industries as the egg industry, the poultry industry, the pig industry, orchardry, and the apple and pear industries. All these industries which have taken up debating time in this House are now smaller than our fishing industry and as time goes on, in terms of the value of the local product, our fishing industry, certainly if it continues in the direction it is heading now with the potential that it is showing, will become an industry probably about the size of the sugar industry, a $400m industry in this country. 
One of the things we must remember to do in relation to the 200-mile fishing zone is to hasten slowly. We are under certain obligations according to the convention of the law of the sea to provide to overseas countries access to our resources within the 200-mile limit to the extent that we cannot take them up ourselves. I hope that in the coming months when these negotiations are going on, and there are plenty of joint venture and overseas venture deals on the desks of the Department of Primary Industry at present, we do hasten slowly to ensure that our fishermen get the best end of the deal as a first principle. I know that the officers of the Department of Primary Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have that very much in mind. I just hope that that point also can be very much reinforced. I am looking forward to a great expansion in the Australian industry. I am looking forward to the port of Eden in my electorate being made a very important part of the southern fisheries of Australia. 
The third of the four points I mention from the Governor-General's Speech is the general question of migration. I reiterate that a lot of rubbish is talked about ethnic radio in Australia. I suspect that in many places in the past it has just been a tool of the socialists. Nevertheless- I am getting off the subject of ethnic radio now- I have said before in this House, and I think it needs to be said again quite often, that we need to expand the opportunities for migration into this country in the very near future. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  yesterday in his maiden speech, which we all thought was excellent, did venture his point of view that immigration may well be rapidly expanded in this country. I gathered from his speech that he could see that higher migration, rather than creating higher unemployment, might just create more jobs. That is a point of view which I hold. It is a point of view which until recently was not fashionable but which is becoming more fashionable. It is not a view held by the Labor Party. That was borne out by the fact that it so dramatically cut immigration into this country. 
As an aside I simply point out to all those people who rush along to listen to the Opposition speakers during election campaigns- I am speaking to the migrant people of this countrythat they should remember that one of the reasons why their brothers and sisters have not been allowed into this country yet is that those people who perhaps they are supporting do not really have their hearts in the job of migration. However, if the brothers and sisters, parents and older children of constituents in my area were to come to Australia they would certainly buy houses, refrigerators and motor cars and they would work very hard. I am certain that those people would create jobs rather than take jobs by virtue of the fact that they would create some sort of excess demand for our industry. 
As my fourth point I refer to the very brief mention in the Governor-General's Speech of rural industries in general. Perhaps he acknowledges that rural industries, under our type of government, have had a great deal done for them in the past two years. Perhaps he acknowledges that there are so many things in the pipeline at the present time that it demonstrates our concern for our great rural industries. I would add that in this country we should always remember, especially at a time- this is a medium term problem- when our balance of payments is of great concern, when our terms of trade have deteriorated so severely in the past few years following, as I said before, the Labor Government's regime, that our export industries, such as our rural industries, assume even greater importance than might be the case normally. 
I can see a great future for rural industries in this country. The beef industry has been going through a traumatic period in the past few years. Incomes have dropped to ridiculously low levels, especially when one considers the average income of people who do not have to work half as hard. The beef industry is one industry in which we are at last seeing a little optimism. 
Many people in my electorate are predicting quite confidently even higher increases in prices than they have experienced in the past few months. Nevertheless, in the coming months the Government has a great responsibility to ensure that the Ts are crossed and the Is dotted properly where the establishment of the Rural Bank is concerned. That is one of the government measures which my constituents are looking forward to seeing implemented, perhaps in part because it will offset some aspects of the protectionist policies which safeguard other people's jobs and which could be implemented on their behalf. 
There are many aspects of the GovernorGeneral's Speech about which we could keep talking. Many of them affect my electorate of Eden-Monaro. We have great national challenges to face. I regret that security and defence cannot be debated more strongly than they are at the present time. Our country has great international importance in this region. We have a role to play as an Asian region nation. Given that we can progress with our increase in our real gross national product, we will be able to afford more and more to help our neighbours under our type of government- under a coalition governmentwhich is getting back to helping people to create incentives in the community. We will be able to do that and to assist our nation as much as possible. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m.  (Quorum formed). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Before  calling the honourable member for Lalor, I remind the House that the honourable member is about to make his maiden speech. I request honourable members to extend the normal courtesy to him that he may be heard without interruption. 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations by reminding him that many Australians, employers and employees, unionists and non-unionists, are very anxiously awaiting the setting up of the Industrial Relations Bureau. Is the Minister able to inform the House whether a date has been set for the beginning of operations of the Bureau? 
I raise a matter tonight which is very similar to that raised by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in the sense that I believe that both sides of the Parliament will appreciate and support what I intend saying. I raise the question of union blackmail of workers in the building industry. In Canberra at present the Building Workers Industrial Union, which is a major building industry union, is in the process of blackmailing quite a number of Australian working people and sub-contractors in the building industry by forcing them against their will to join unions. I know that in some parts of Australia this has been commonplace for some years. We know of some of the events in places like Broken Hill. But one hopes that in these days it is not one of the forms of activity that people will go along with for very long. 
Some of the people from Queanbeyan in my electorate and people from the electorates in the Australian Capital Territory are being forced because of the actions of these unions to pay fees or leave sites in Canberra at present. The situation is that the unions, by heavy handed blackmail tactics, are forcing themselves on major employers who are being forced to buckle under because the employers cannot afford, in the competitive environment of the building industry, to close down the job for a protracted period while litigation takes place. They cannot afford the costs of these delays. They are finding that it is probably better to go along with the unions and ask sub-contractors to have their employees join the unions. 
We in Australia, as I understand it, have always believed in fair play and in freedom of the individual to make decisions on these matters. In fact this Government has legislated in that direction. We have legislated for the setting up of the Industrial Relations Bureau. We have legislated for amendments to the Trade Practices Act and in particular an amendment to section 45d which has very widespread support throughout the building industry. We recognise that costs in the construction industry are inevitably passed on to consumers. The point I make tonight concerns not so much the cost to the consumer but the cost to the principals involved in this country of so-called freedom play. 
A particularly nasty character is getting around building sites in Canberra at present. I refer to  Mr Ron  Driver of the Building Workers Industrial Union who is using this form of blackmail. It is possible, I understand, for building workers who are conscientious objectors to obtain a legitimate conscientious objection certificate from places such as the Master Builders Association. I understand however that  Mr Driver  is then able in those circumstance to call out other unions. I am not a lawyer but I would say that under section 45d of the Trade Practices Act that black banning would constitute an offence. As I said, the unions hold the whip hand because of the terrible costs involved to the major contractors. We in the Government parties will not rest until people like  Mr Driver  are cleaned out of the industry. People like  Mr Driver  prejudice the lives of honest working people amongst whom are many of my constituents. We need a concerted drive by the major contractors to weed out these agitators. We want to be rid of the people who prejudice the lives of Australians against the best interests of consumers and of the industry as a whole. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Finance. I refer to the tourist industry which, as the Minister knows from his experience in his electorate and as I know from my experience in mine, is of increasing importance to our national economy. Is it true that the Minister has recently cleared the way to an increase of $300,000 in appropriation to the Australian Tourist Commission? If this is so, will these funds be directed to any particular activity? 
-I, in common with the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  support the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill. As the honourable member said very clearly and I think very accurately, it is a Bill of little substance. That is the way in which the Bill is set out. In fact, it is a Bill of little substance because it states that the Commonwealth Government, for this next five years, will not be involved in some of the matters it was during the previous five years because of a very good consensus with the States and because of advice received from people such as the honourable member for Scullin in his capacity, some time ago, as the  chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. 
I suppose that the wags would ask why the honourable member for Scullin is talking about forests. I have discovered that not only was he the  chairman  of that Committee which made a very worthwhile report in early 1975 but also apparently he has inherited some forests in his electorate after the electoral redistribution of last year. He is also a trained biologist. They are the factors contributing to the speech which he has just made so very succinctly, although in one or two cases he was slightly inaccurate. The general agreement with the States in respect to this Bill has been widespread. In the case of New South Wales, the cutback in softwood planting started not this year but a couple of years ago. The State realised that the demand that had been projected some 10 years ago for the product just would not be there in the early years of the next century. 
Since the financial year 1966-67, the Federal Government has lent the States some $47 m to encourage the establishment of softwood plantations. The States in general have provided some 50 per cent of the cost of those plantations, both for the plantings and for the maintenance in later years. The Commonwealth aid no doubt has been of great assistance to the States, especially considering the very favourable terms upon which the Commonwealth Government has provided those loans. Following the presentation of the report by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation when the honourable member for Sculling was its  chairman  and also a very detailed report entitled  The Australian Softwoods Products Industry  by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, it has been discovered that the earlier projections over-estimated the demand and that at this stage this excess demand will not be required. That position may change. I am one of the people who hope that our population projections which have been reduced in the past few years for two reasons- lower fertility rates and much lower immigration- will move ahead somewhat more quickly than at present projected. 
The progress could be made by an increase in immigration rates to try to counteract the very rapid decrease that honourable members opposite caused when they somehow ceased to believe in immigration to this country. I have made my contribution on the other aspect. I do not intend to have any more than the five children I have already. In the present situation, we estimate that there will be a requirement for some 17,000 hectares to 18,000 hectares of plantation per annum. If one subtracts the amount which normally would be planted by private interests- approximately 8,000 hectares per annum- this leaves some 10,000 hectares for planting by the States. That is about half of the plantings that were taking place some 12 months or two years ago which totalled 222,000 hectares. That is the reason for the present contention that the States now require only about half the plantings that had been projected. Since the States in any case previously provided about half of the funds for new plantings, that constant level of funding from the States would meet all their requirements. They would not require Commonwealth funding for the plantings part of the program. The provisions of this Bill will cover the upkeep of the forests already funded by the Commonwealth. As has been stated by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the operation of this Bill is of limited duration and the amount provided under it will be revised, hopefully upward. 
I must say that, from the point of view of my electorate of Eden-Monaro, this Bill will not have any medium term effect. In my electorate, the State Government has cut back the plantings already from some 1,600 hectares, although that was a target that was never quite reached, to the present level of plantings of 800 hectares per annum which looks like a pretty fair annual projection for the next five years. No jobs have been lost in my electorate in the softwood industry, although one would have hoped under normal circumstances that perhaps with more plantings the number of jobs available could have been increased. But the cutback has not meant that jobs have been lost because there are plenty of other jobs in maintaining and improving the plantings in recent years. This has kept the people already employed in jobs. 
At the present time the area devoted to softwood timber in my electorate, although not large by national standards and not large when compared to the vast amount of native hardwoods available for harvesting, is comprised of some 10,000 hectares owned by the Government- that is, the State Forestry Commission- and some 4,000 hectares owned by private interests. Most of that area has been planted since 1965, and we should remember that one of the main reasons for those plantings was the Federal Government's involvement, from 1966-67, which gave the States some sort of guarantee that they would be able to go ahead with the job as it was then seen. There are certainly plenty of questions that have been raised in recent times relating to the softwood industry. 
As I said, the general questions of projections of demand, when the presently planted forests reach harvesting size, have depended tremendously on fairly obvious factors such as projections of gross national product. Some of the models put forward by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics say that there is some correlation at the margin between gross national product and timber consumption per head. I suppose that is a reasonable assumption, and it seems to be borne out by the evidence the Bureau has been able to produce. The demand probably most importantly depends on population although, of course, the alternative possibilities to softwood must play a part. The cost of hardwood is one of the factors that induce people into or out of the consumption of softwood. I spent quite some years in the construction industry, and I saw the slackening in relative demand for hardwood in the late 1960s as softwood came on to the market at more competitive prices. I refer not only to Australian softwoodsthere was always a limited volume of that type of timber, and the quality in the early days of the main supply of Australian softwoods was not all that good- but also to imported softwoods which became much more competitive. I refer particularly to the imports of timber from New Zealand, in addition to those from our major supplier from overseas which is Canada. 
I should mention briefly also when I mention questions relating to demand that the question of import replacement is a very strong one in respect of softwoods in Australia. The Vernon inquiry of the early 1960s was looking, amongst other things, at some of the economic factors facing this country in the future. It noted very strongly that the softwood industry was one that presented great possibilities for import replacement. I notice that we are still importing a great deal of softwood into this country. In 1976-77 the total value of softwood imports to Australia was $82. 7m, which is a lot of money considering that we still have a lot of timber in this country and considering that in that period, which was in the wake of the recession we began to experience early in 1970s, there was a plentiful supply of alternative Australian timbers. Despite the fact that hardwood supplies were still available people in many areas of the construction industry, which is one area where there is a genuine possibility of substitution, were still insisting on softwoods because of the obvious qualities of softwoods. In many cases, if the hardwood price had been kept down or if the cost of the imported materials had been a bit higher, we would probably have had more employment in our own hardwood industry in Australia. 
The hardwood industry, however, is something that we are not really discussing today, except in its capacity as a substitute for softwood. We must keep this subject in mind I suppose when we speak about the problems of the environment. I will mention briefly some of the problems of the environment. I referred at the beginning of my remarks to what in my view were some slight inaccuracies by the honourable member for Scullin. I do not think he was accurate when he said that the Government has paid no attention to environmental issues in this Bill. The Bill indirectly pays great attention because it pays attention to the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which, in fact, prompted the thrust of the Bill. That report discusses rather extensively some of the environmental issues that we need to face with respect to softwoods. 
One of the things I have come across in the softwood area of my electorate, the main part of which is in the Bombala district in the southern district of New South Wales, is that some of the primary producers involved not in timber but in other avenues of primary production, such as the beef or sheep industries, have said to me that there are noticeable detrimental effects on their pastures downstream from the softwood plantings. They do not have any strong scientific evidence to support this, but they notice that the run-off from the softwood areas seems to create problems in their pastures and streams and affects the quality of the water. They have a pretty strong notion at least that softwood planted in Australia after clear felling of the native timber has had a detrimental effect on the environment with respect to primary production. One could argue that those people, by their very existence, have had a detrimental effect on some other aspects of the environment. Of course, they produce things which we must eat or wear and things that are necessary for our export trade. I think it is generally believed that those people probably should have first preference in terms of some minor detriment to the environment, as distinct perhaps from the softwood industry which, if it creates problems for our environment, is in a better position to be cut back, probably in favour of native hardwoods. The honourable member for Scullin, when presenting the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation dealing with the operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreement Acts 1967 and 1972, said:   . . this leads me to three major recommendations of this report which cannot be stressed too strongly. The first is that more funds ought to be made available for biological surveys and wildlife surveys for the whole Australian continent. The great tragedy of softwood planting is that of the native forest being destroyed, so little is known about its flora and fauna content or its relative value. The second is for greater research to be conducted into the side effects of softwood forestry upon all the environmental issues raised in the report. 
I firmly endorse what was stated in the report. I would like an opportunity to say that in my view the people employed in the Forestry Commission who manage the softwood plantations and the hardwood plantations in my electorate are the true conservationists who, in their dealings with both the softwood and the hardwood environment, have always been very careful in their management techniques to take account of any environmental factors that they find could be detrimental. 
Without trying to expand the debate outside the softwood area, but keeping to the question of the environment, I want to refer to the woodchipping industry on the South Coast, which has created a lot of heartburning in some sections, especially to some people in the Australian Capital Territory who have created a great deal of protest. A lot of those people have not really bothered to look at the problem in those areas of protest. It should always be remembered that techniques have been improved tremendously since the woodchip industry commenced on the South Coast. In my view- I have to admit that I do not have a degree in biology, but I have a great interest in the welfare of my electorate- the present regeneration of our native forests is being very well managed, especially in the area of wildlife and some of the areas mentioned in the report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. The adjustment of the techniques by the Forestry Commission is being made by true conservationistspeople who love the bush. I do not think that people would normally join the Forestry Commission unless they were of that nature. I should say also, without expanding it too far outside this Parliament - 
There are not very many forests in the Gosford area but there are plenty of oranges, some of which are good and some of which are bad. At the present time some uncertainties are being created in the hardwood forest area by some of the attitudes of the State Government- not by the State Government's Commission. I fear that at times the State Government is being put on by people who do not take the trouble to investigate fully the impact of the forests on either the local environment or the local communities. I wonder when the State Premier,  Mr Wran,  will stop the series of inquiries, one after the other, which have created a great deal of uncertainty in the area, as distinct from the move made by the Federal Government last year to give a firm commitment for an export licence for woodchips for the next 12 years. Nevertheless, that is a side issue in regard to this softwood Bill. I reiterate that it appears that both sides of the Parliament strongly support the Bill. It is a consensus Bill. It has the agreement of the State governments. I hope that when it is revised in five years' time it will be changed to one in favour of greater plantings, if not of radiata, of other softwoods which are more in line with the environment and which indicate better replacement possibilities and perhaps a greater population in the early years of the next century. 
The Opposition has shown very clearly this afternoon that despite the fact that it has brought forward this matter of public importance for serious debate it is determined not to carry out serious debate. For a start, it talked about the failure of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  Clearly because of the ministerial arrangements, this matter is outside the area of the Minister for Finance and is within the area of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  That is the reason why the Treasurer is debating this matter instead of the Minister for Finance. 
Also, the Opposition put up the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  as some sort of an economics expert. During the 10 minutes he spoke he did not talk about economics at all. We know that he has great qualities and we know that he is a numbers man, or at least that is what he tells us. I suppose that, like most members of the Labor Party, he is a big numbers man. He talks about big deficits, big inflation rates, big interest rates and big unemployment. They are the numbers of the Labor Party. They are the numbers we are trying to reduce. They are the numbers we have been trying very hard to reduce in the past two and a bit years. 
Honourable members opposite are interjecting. A few of them have come into the chamber, and that is good. Talk about the failure of our budgetary policy; at least we have a policy- and that is refreshing. At least the Government knows that it is trying to do. At least the Government is achieving what it set out to do, and the people of Australia know that; they demonstrated this in the last general election. Our policy is a sound one; it is based on our belief in the individual working people of Australia and the individual disadvantaged people of Australia. 
In a broader context, our budgetary policyand this has been stated over and over again- is a return to full employment and economic growth in the context of greater social justice. It is not always easy to get all the settings right at the same time. It is also particularly difficult to get the settings together at the right time when we have an Opposition which, as the Treasurer has just said, fights for the full indexation of wages at this time when that would put more ordinary working men out of work. We consider the number of people already out of work at this time to be disastrously high. We are looking for full employment and for greater social justice, and that is what we are achieving. We are not working towards a return to the chasm into which this country was plunged in those dark Labor years. From time to time we talk about inflation, about deficits and about interest rates, but they are only subsidiary tools. They are the things we are trying to correct in order to get full employment, sound and real economic growth and greater social justice. I ask honourable members to remember those times when the Whitlam Government was spending more and more ostensibly to help people like pensioners while those people's savings were being whittled away by that terrible thing- inflation. 
But speaking in a less broad context about economic policy, the 1977-78 Budget specifically introduced tax cuts and upheld the health, education, defence and social security budgets in very difficult times. The Budget also upheld States' rights so that the States could get record rake-offs from the Commonwealth this year in real terms. That is something about which we do not hear often from New South Wales, the State to which the honourable member for Chifley has just referred. New South Wales says that we are always the ones cutting programs, but in fact we are always the ones trying to help the States. That is why New South Wales has been able to expand its programs. It has received substantially more from the Federal Government this year. That is our budgetary policy; that is what we are upholding; that is what the people voted for and that is what the people are so pleased about in general terms at present. 
It is true that the deficit is running very close to its target. It is also true that perhaps it will run over its target. But anybody with a simple knowledge of arithmetic could look at the Niemeyer statements for the past couple of months and see that the Budget deficit will run to within one per cent or 2 per cent of total outlays- not a large percentage over the Budget when one considers what we have been able to offer in recent months. We have been able to offer substantial tax cuts and we are continuing to offer greater social justice through the programs introduced in the Budget last year. It is not easy to cover the outlays with the income to the Government at present. The Australian people have got used to greatly expanded programs in recent years. In the context that we do not want to charge too much tax, it is obvious that the deficit will be a very difficult hurdle to get over. But it is only one of the settings. It, along with inflation and interest rates, is the tool, as I said, that we need to use to return to full employment and real economic growth. 
What has the Opposition had to say during this debate that would offer some real alternatives to what it considers as failure- and I query the use of the word 'failure'. I venture to suggest that under a Labor Government things would be much worse. Just before the general election last year and after last year's Budget, the Opposition offered a whole range of government expenditure programs. Some of these were reiterated during the lead-up to the elections. Opposition members were talking about greater expenditure, amounting to $250m, on hospitals, sewerage programs, growth centres, area improvement programs, tourist development programs and leisure facility programs. They were talking about a national compensation scheme that would cost $500m-odd. They were talking about changing Medibank so that the public purse would be up for another $700m. They were talking about greater water resources and funds for hostels and accommodation which would cost over $200m. They were talking about dramatic increases in education spending. We do not know what they mean by 'dramatic increases ', but I suppose they would try to accede to some of the requests from people like the 
Teachers Federation. The teachers seem to want more and more time to prepare lessons. They should be talking about greater efficiency in education and a better standard in our schools. We do not know what the cost of all of these things would be. All we do know is that the cost would be something like $2,000m or $3,000m. 
If Labor were in power now, what would it do? Would it increase taxes to cover the amount needed or would its deficit not be one per cent or 2 per cent over target but in fact 100 per cent over target? That was the way Labor was heading in 1975. That was one of the reasons why it was so difficult to cut back programs and to keep the Budget at the originally planned deficit of some $2.7 billion. We knew what they were talking about in 1 975 when they were planning great excesses in government expenditure. Labor was not looking at slight increases in the Budget deficit: It was looking at something absolutely incredibly high. 
During this debate we waited for signs of advice from honourable members opposite. We waited for them to come up with something constructive. All they could do was drag up dirt about various Ministers. That is about the limit of their intellect at present. They are good at advocating things like the picketing of ships loading sheep at the cost of the welfare of thousands of unionists and non-unionists. That is the type of thing in which the Labor Opposition is engaged at present. It is not interested in the welfare of the working people of Australia or in sound Budget planning or in the interests of the aged, the young, the business people, the people who make the money so that we as a government can afford the programs we are trying to implement as regards greater social justice. Members of the Opposition are not interested in the ordinary Australian. They are only interested in coming into this chamber and putting forward a proposition about the failure of the Government's budgetary policy, without putting forward any alternatives. They know what the Australian people voted for. They know that the Australian people recognised this Government as a government that can make sound budgetary policies. The Australian people recognised this Government as a government which, when it ran into problems, could solve those problems. That is what we are doing. That is what we will show we can do in the future. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The debate is now concluded. I call the Minister. 

Opposition members- No! 
-In supporting this legislation I would like first of all to comment on two points made by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  towards the end of his speech. The first point- when I first heard it I thought that it was rather interestingwas that the Commissioner of Taxation has had a much lower success rate in appeals to the High Court than in the lower courts, where the success rate is 70 per cent. In the High Court the success rate is only about 40 per cent. I would have thought that the reason for that might be that by the time the cases had reached the High Court it would be known whether the Taxation Commissioner-- 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask the Minister whether, under the Telecommunications Act 1975, he can give directions to Telecom Australia to vary its priorities for capital funding. I emphasise the word 'priorities'. Will the Minister use his influence to help to redress the imbalance seen by country people whereby telephone subscribers in large cities enjoy much greater opportunity to make local calls within zones of community interest and whereby those city subscribers enjoy continuous automatic service, which is a situation that certainly is not shared by many of their country cousins? 
Before commencing my grievance this morning I shall make one comment on the speech by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  In sharp contradistinction to his scare tactics in relation to Australia's very responsible policy on uranium he has never once in this House condemned those countries which are flat out in going ahead with uranium mining and development. I refer especially to countries such as Russia. 
This morning I shall talk about the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I addressed a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  during question time this morning on one aspect of Telecom. It is a question that is often raised by honourable members from country electorates. Telecom plays a very big part in the lives of people in the bush. It is a giant enterprise. The most recent annual report notes that its total value is now over $6 billion. It is a giant enterprise involved in a very important public utility which provides a service from which, of course, it has to make a profit. It makes a good profit. In addition, it is a great tool of decentralisation in this country. It also provides a very important welfare function especially for people who live outside the capital cities. People need to communicate. Communication in cities and large towns can be brought about quite easily by word of mouth or by travelling from one place to another. That is often impossible in more isolated areas. That is the reason I raise this matter today. 
Telecom is a commission. That is good. It was brought about by the previous Government following a wide-ranging report. I am not arguing against that. Nor am I arguing about the fact that Telecom makes a profit. It think that is good. Its present level of profit of about $160m is often denigrated by people in country areas. I fully support that profit and I do not mind going on record as saying that. I realise that the massive capital works program which at present is $900m a year has to be prosecuted especially if people in country areas are to get better services in shorter time. I am not arguing against the profit level. I am certainly not arguing against some of the policies of Telecom in recent times that have assisted people in the country. Connection fees have been lowered. There has been an extension of Subscriber Trunk Dialling concessional arrangements on Sundays. Telephone call charges have not been raised in the past 2v4 years. At the same time inflation has accounted for a reasonable rise in the cost of living so that by not raising fees Telecom has, in fact, discounted them. I am not criticising any of these things. They are all good. 
What I have to criticise is the fact that the hierarchy in Telecom at State and national level is not giving enough help to people in the country in terms of capital works. The 1976-77 annual report indicates that in country areas in New South Wales there were still 43,435 manual services at the end of June last year. Some of those are continuous manual services but even they have drawbacks. However, there are a large number of services that are not continuous. They do not operate for large parts of the weekends or most of the night. These services are the ones to which I address myself. Many of them are in my area. They deserve a much higher priority in capital spending than they are receiving at present. I note almost cynically that there is not a single manual service in a metropolitan or an outer metropolitan area. All these areas have continuous automatic services. Almost all of them have access to STD. 
The present rate of supply of services within New South Wales is 130,000 a year. If there were a complete concentration on converting manual services to automatic services it would take four months at the rate of 130,000 a year. I appreciate that that is not possible. I appreciate that a lot of the new services have to go into metropolitan areas. So let me be a little more reasonable and suggest that it would take fifteen times as long. It should then take five years to convert all those manual services to automatic services. The Minister said this morning that it should take 10 years. He said that within that period there would probably be about 1.3 million new services. Therefore I do not think that in 10 years it is unreasonable to expect that 43,000 services in the country will be transferred to automatic services. 
I fear that at the present rate of installation of automatic exchanges in the country the target of 10 years will not be met by any stretch of the imagination. At present there are 1,630 manual exchanges in Australia. I have no figures on this because it is not mentioned in the annual report but I would estimate that about 500 of those exchanges still remain in New South Wales. That estimate would seem reasonable when considering the large number that still remain in my electorate of Eden-Monaro. At the present rate within New South Wales, only 15 manual exchanges per annum are being converted to automatic exchanges out of a total of 500. At that rate it will take 35 years for all the people in the country to have automatic services. The Minister said this morning that it would take 10 years. At the present rate of installation it will take 35 years. That is why I have raised this point in the grievance debate today. I believe that the hierarchy in Telecom at State and Commonwealth level does not realise that the conversion to automatic exchanges will not be achieved in 10 years. It will take 35 years. 
I want that policy changed. Out of the $900m being spent on capital works I want a much higher priority for the upgrading of country services. I am bound to say that within my electorate there is tremendous co-operation at the district telephone office level. I imagine that that occurs throughout the country. The Telecom officials in my electorate try very hard to obtain funds and priorities for the people under their service. I have the strongest admiration for the work they are doing and the help they are giving me. Nevertheless, they are bound by State and Commonwealth policies within Telecom. For that reason they are not able to expand their services quickly enough. 
I note that in the annual accounts of Telecom there is no breakdown of profits between different areas, especially between city and country areas. One of the official reasons normally given by Telecom for not being able to expand country services quickly enough is that there is very little profit in it. They have to put money into areas which are more profitable. How profitable is the country? How profitable is the city? The annual reports do not give any indication of that. I wonder whether Telecom has a proper breakdown and whether it can justify the oft-repeated statement that the provision of these services is not profitable in many country areas. If Telecom does know, why does it not put the information in its annual reports so that we can scrutinise those facts? If Telecom does not know, why does it keep saying that the country areas are not profitable? I wonder whether a better and more concerted effort by Telecom in country areas would increase its profits by wiping off many of the labour intensive manual exchanges and creating conditions in which people in the country will more often use their telephones. I should like Telecom- the Minister for Post and Telecommunications knows what I think about this matter- to give a much higher priority to country areas. I certainly hope it can do that because unless it does we will not have automatic exchanges throughout Australia in anywhere near the next 10 years. 
-It is really a great pleasure for me to speak in the debate on the Fisheries Amendment Bill and the associated Bills because the fishing industry has become of tremendous importance in my electorate in the past few years. For that reason I am very pleased that at last the fishing industry is being looked at critically and sensibly by the Federal Government. In saying that, I am not being critical in any way of any other governments. There is one thing that needs to be remembered about fishermen; they are not a whingeing lot of people. They have their problems. They have had to take things into their own hands at times. I instance the events that occurred within my electorate when fishermen at Ulladulla decided to dump fish rather than sell them. They are not whingeing people in the sense that they believe in looking after themselves if that is possible. 
We now have before us the Fisheries Amendment Bill which provides a new challenge to the fishing industry and through which the Government must play a very active part. Government back benchers set up a committee that has operated for quite some months to look into the fisheries situation. I am very pleased to know that a number of members of Parliament, both in the Senate and in the House of Representatives, are quite well informed about fisheries and are taking the time on a continuing basis to contact fishermen and those people involved in other parts of the fishing industry throughout Australia. As the  chairman  of that back bench committee and, as I said, as a member of Parliament who represents an area in which fishing is important, where the industry employs many people and where it still has a tremendous potential, I am very pleased to be speaking in the debate on this Bill. 
I would like to emphasise that the Bill is only a vehicle for later regulation. I think that probably that is a sensible approach. There are many matters with respect to the 200-mile Australian fishing zone that must be worked out, hopefully in very close consultation with the industry. The Fisheries Amendment Bill follows some very good work done by a working group set up by Australian Fisheries Council. The report has been well read throughout the fishing industry in Australia and criticised in some areas. In fact, there is one point I should make which relates to the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party to the Fisheries Amendment Bill. The amendment calls on the House to accept all the provisions contained in the report of that working party. That would not be acceptable to the industry. There are a number of recommendations in that working group report which are put up as proposals for critical review by the industry. Obviously, the industry would not want all those recommendations accepted on face value. For instance, the report contains a proposal for the setting up of an Australian fishing zone committee. It is proposed that that committee should have amongst its members two representatives from the industry. 
Quite a number of fishermen have stated to our government back bench committee that they would like a lot more industry representation on that Australian fishing zone committee. We see that as being very important because whereas the Australian fishing zone committee will make recommendations when it is set up, it will not have the final say. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in general will have the final say. It is important if those recommendations are to have the full support of the industry that fishermen themselves can play an important part on this committee. I am saying that the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party is inappropriate in this instance because not all the recommendations of the working group, meticulous as it was in looking at the problems of the fishing industry as they will arise within the 200-mile fishing zone, are acceptable at face value. That is the reason I could not accept the amendment. 
Fishermen in Australia at the present time are taking very strong views on this 200-mile Australian fishing zone. There is a strong feeling within the industry that we must not sell out the Australian fishermen to overseas interests. There is also a strong fear, because of many Press reports in the past few months, that we may be about to sell out to foreign interests. I am assured by the Minister that that will not be the case. That does not mean to say that I will not continue to press the Minister continuously to remember that the Australian fishing industry is just waking up to some of its potential. Many parts of the industry have functioned efficiently and on an ever-increasing scope in recent years. I instance the southern blue-fin tuna industry, the northern prawn industry and the western and Tasmanian cray industries. Those industries have earned a tremendous amount of money in exports for Australia and technically they are very advanced. 
However, some other parts of the industry have not advanced. I instance the Bight fisheries. It has been known for many years that there are great many fish in the Great Australian Bight that have not been harvested to anywhere near the extent they could be harvested. It is only now that boats are being built and leased from overseas in order to harvest the fish in these areas. The fishermen do not want to be sold out. They are beginning to see potential in areas that probably had not been considered properly in past times. They want the Government to give the local fishermen as much scope as possible to expand their capacity to take up the tremendous challenge that is being offered. A number of joint venture proposals have been advanced and are well known to the public at this time. From what the Minister has said, it would appear that a large number of joint venture proposals from a number of countries have come across his desk. Some of those proposals are to carry out what is known as feasibility fishing. The working group report to which I have referred suggests that feasibility fishing is one area in which joint ventures should be encouraged. 
I would like to sound a very strong warning to the industry. I suspect that some of the proposals put up as feasibility fishing proposals are not really feasibility fishing proposals. They are proposals under which the fishermen would like to come in and perhaps get some information, some of which might flow across to Australia if we are lucky, but, in the meantime, do a lot of fishing and take a lot of fish out of some of these waters. Without meaning this to be an attack on a particular proposal, I suspect very much the present joint venture proposal which involves the Russians and which is based on Portland. It was the subject of quite a strong report in the newspapers a few weeks ago. There was a great amount of agitation in the fishing industry aimed at ensuring that the Government does not allow that proposal to go ahead. This suggestion is thrown up as a feasibility fishing proposal. If one happens to read the proposal, one sees that the terms are very close to those suggested as a draft set of terms in the working group report. I suspect that proposal a great deal. I do not think that our fishermen want to be sold out to a two dollar company anyway. 
On the other hand other ventures- I instance the Taiwanese-Australian venture on the North West Shelf which is also in front of the Minister at the present time- are probably more in line with what the Australian fishermen would like to see occur. At the present time Australians are not fishing the North West Shelf except for close inshore. In fact, the large number of Taiwanese boats there are the only boats working that area at present. The proposal which the Taiwanese have suggested, with their Australian partners, envisages two phases. Eventually it would mean that the fish would be caught by Australian fishermen on the basis that perhaps the fish would mainly be sent back to Taiwan. That is the country which is prepared to consume the fish caught in that area, most of which are not suitable for Australian palates at this stage. 
There are quite a number of things that I would like to talk about in this debate but, unfortunately, there is very little time. So I return to this proposal for the establishment of an Australian fishing zone committee which should occur under the regulations set up by the amendments contained in this Bill. I see that committee as being the basic committee to recommend, from time to time, policies on fisheries based in different areas around Australia; to recommend fee structures; and to recommend the number of licences to be issued to overseas vessels and to local vessels if overseas vessels are appropriate in the area. For instance, I note, with respect to fee structures, that it is quite likely that in some areas fees would need to be fairly low. In other areas, such as the southern bluefin fishing area, where for the time being there will probably still be some Japanese longliners, the fee could probably be quite stiff-maybe $5,000 or $10,000 a year. I understand that the Japanese would be happy to pay that sort of amount. I see the Australian fishing zone committee making recommendations in relation to equipment to be used in these areas. I see the committee as being a very important part of the regulation of the fisheries around Australia. I hope that there will be a great deal of debate amongst fishermen in Australia on this matter because it is a very important cog that should be brought into operation. 
Another thing I wish to say in the very strongest terms- it needs to be said- is that I deplore any trade offs in our trading relations between the fishing industry and the beef industry. Within my electorate there is a very big beef industry. There is also a very big fishing industry. I do not like the idea of saying to another country: We will not sell fish to you unless you buy our beef, or 'we will not let you into our fishing grounds unless you buy our beef. I see the potential for trade offs but only within the fishing industry. Perhaps we should be saying to the Japanese: 'We will not let you into our 200-mile zone to fish for bluefin tuna unless you let us into your sashimi markets in Japan'. We do not have access to those markets. I do not see why we should not have access to those markets because that is an area of the tuna fishery where our fishermen could get good returns, and that would benefit the people of Australia. 
The implications of the 200-mile Australian fishing zone are absolutely massive. We are talking about surveillance problems, about new methods of fishing, about new problems of finance- I hope that the Rural Bank can play a very big part in that regard- and about new approaches to research, which I hope will be a lot more pragmatic than purely theoretical in coming times. We are talking about new initiatives for the boat building industry and for the importation of boats. The new initiatives on allowing the limited importation of second-hand boats can only help to reduce costs to the Australian fishing industry and therefore make our industry, in terms of exports, far more competitive. 
We have a tremendous challenge. The 200-mile Australian fishing zone will almost double the area of Australian sovereignty. From that point of view it has to be massive. I emphasise again that generally fishermen do not complain. We have a tremendous responsibility in government right now to see that we do not sell out the Australian industry, that we hasten very slowly in licensing foreign vessels, and that we do not get too carried away in the belief that there are enough fish in our waters for an unlimited number of foreign vessels to come into even those areas not being fished at present. We need to exercise caution. If we do so our own Australian fishermen will benefit to the ultimate. 
Leave granted. 
My question relates to the Industries Assistance Commission and is addressed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I preface my question by reminding the House that the integrity of the commissioners of the Industries Assistance Commission is now held in very high regard because of their efforts towards a more efficient Australia. My question is supplementary to the one asked yesterday by the honourable member for Lyne and relates to the committee which will select the person to fill the position of commissioner as advertised recently. I ask the Minister: Who are the members of the selection committee and what are their qualifications for the task of selection? What are the criteria upon which their selection will be based? Will the three-man committee be acceptable to all major interests - manufacturers, primary producers and consumers? Why did the advertisement for the position of commissioner omit any reference to the rural sector and, to use the words in the advertisement refer only to 'the business sector, the Public Service, the academic community and the trade union movement'? 
I shall deal firstly with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  It is a nonsense amendment because it asks the Minister for Primary Industry to explain something and, of course, in the normal course of events that could not be incorporated in the legislation. The position is that if a particular State decides that it will not enter into these arrangements, the States that remain will receive quotas and selective underwriting under the legislation. There is not much more that one can say about the legislation. That is a full explanation of the position. I think that anybody who has read the legislation and understands it and who understands also the very real problems that many of the States have experienced in accepting the positions of other States in regard to this matter would realise that there are problems within the States. It should be appreciated that this matter has to be approached with a great deal of sympathy. It is not a matter of knocking the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  because Victoria has decided, as it has the right, not to enter into the arrangements, although, of course, it is hoped that it will do so. There is no certainty about Victoria entering into the scheme. 
I am surprised that the Opposition has not been able, in its criticism of this legislation, to provide any positive alternatives. The Opposition would realise, of course, that this legislation has come about only after a very long series of meetings between the Federal Minister and the State Ministers. It has come about after many discussions and many different points of view being put forward by the State Ministers. This legislation has not been easy to come by. At this stage it is to be regretted that we did not have longer to discuss this legislation in the party rooms before it came into the House, but it has had to be introduced before 1 July because of a commitment by the Federal Government. It is being debated rather hastily because the States have taken so long to come to any sort of agreement. The Opposition refuses to come up with positive alternatives. It has not put forward any means by which the States' problems could be overcome. It has not provided any good alternatives to what I regard as a second rate compromise that the Federal Government has had to accept, namely, selective underwriting. We have had to accept that because, as with so much legislation of similar nature, under the Constitution it is imperative that the States agree or enter into the spirit of the legislation in order for it to work across Australia. I just despair that the Opposition cannot see that we are trying to assist the dairy industry, we are trying to get the States together. All the Opposition can do is knock one person or another, without coming up with positive alternatives. 
The States, I suppose, in these matters tend to be parochial. That has certainly been the case throughout a whole series of Agricultural Council meetings over the past year or so, even prior to the introduction of stage one of the dairy arrangements which came into effect at the beginning of the last fiscal year. The Federal Government has certainly made a genuine attempt to rationalise the dairy industry. The first Industries Assistance Commission report and the second Industries Assistance Commission report by Professor Crawford very clearly pointed up some of the mistakes that have been made in the past by governments and pointed up good viable means of getting the dairy industry back to some sensible production levels and therefore sensible returns to producers. I do not think that any of us in this place would deny the fact that the returns to dairy farmers in the past few years have been ludicrously low, especially given the hours of work and the capital involvement of dairy farmers. The Federal Government has shown its good faith, in the face of these very strong disagreements amongst the States, in putting forward this legislation which, as I said, is really a second rate compromise but the only one that the Federal Government is able to achieve in the face of the States' opposition to the earlier propositions. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in informal discussions in this place over a number of weeks has pointed out, and quite rightly too, that despite the fact that perhaps there are five States which see Victoria as the bete noire of this situation, we should recognise that that State does have a large number and in fact almost a majority of dairy farmers in this country whose livelihoods, for better or worse, depend upon enforcing a reasonable arrangement in this legislation. 
We in New South Wales take perhaps a different point of view, though we should understand the Victorians. In New South Wales we say that over a period of time we have cut down production, realising that we do not want to create, say, a mountain of skim milk powder that we cannot sell. We have probably been more prudent. That is certainly what we think. From that point of view I can see that the New South Welshmen would always disagree around the table with the Victorians. Nevertheless, we do live in a federation, we do live in a country where we all call ourselves Australians, and perhaps reluctantly at times when I am supporting the very important dairy industry sector of my electorate I have to acknowledge that whatever mistakes have been made in the past the Victorians are in a situation, the Victorians are in a position where they, for better or worse, are producing relatively efficiently and they have to be thought of. That is why I think there is a great need for give and take and perhaps to a slight extent I would disagree with some of the people in my electorate who say 'damn the Victorians '. 
Perhaps I should point out also- having been kind to the honourable member for Murray who will speak on our side after I do- that the Victorians have had a recent history of seasonal production which is obviously more efficient in terms of cost of production per litre. They do not have to worry so much in Victoria about winter production as we do in New South Wales where we have a far greater proportion of milk going to the liquid milk market. In Victoria the low season production level is something of the order of 14 or 15 per cent of the high season, the highest level of production in the high level months in the summer. In New South Wales we have some 58 per cent of the high season production being produced in the low season. That indicates very strongly that in New South Wales we have to keep up our production in the winter for market reasons, for reasons of the sorts of markets in which milk is being sold. In Victoria they can afford to have some relaxation in the winter and for that reason costs can be kept down. 
I think that some of the myths that have been created in the argument over the monthsnamely, that Victoria is a particularly efficient producer- should take account of the fact that I have just mentioned. I know that the efficiency argument is all important in some areas in this milk debate, but perhaps we should remember at times that there are other places where, with very similar country and with very similar size of holdings, with very similar numbers of milking cows, with very similar degrees of efficiency with respect to management, there are some other places apart from Victoria which really do produce just as efficiently. 
The history of the dairy industry has been one of a considerable number of errors at both State and Federal level. The interjections during the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland that has just finished noted that the Labor Government in its time of office made a distinct error in just wiping out a dairy industry subsidy that perhaps in its effect was not the most efficient way of assisting the dairy industry in its then problems, but one which should not have been wiped out in a vacuum situation. There is no subsidy or arrangement that can be wiped out by a decision of Government without some sort of" compensation or without some sort of phasing out arrangement. The longer I am here the more I am made aware of that fact in so wide a range of problems. Nevertheless, the Labor Government wiped the thing out in its wisdom; perhaps in its urgent desire to increase the Public Service and to do so many other things that it thought important for this country. 
Our sort of government has made errors, in my view, in the past. At one stage when it looked as if the skim milk powder market overseas would be profitable, perhaps forever, we entered into arrangements in the re-construction area where people were encouraged by the incentives to buy bulk tankers to get more milk into the factories. It appeared to be profitable at that time. 
The honourable member for Murray has pointed out that that was actually in Labor's time and perhaps I am being a little bit harsh on my side. But we have entered into arrangements where we have tried to direct the market in one way or the other because, quite conscientiously, we thought that we could do best for the industry. Really in the long term we do best for the industry by saying to the industry 'Make up your own minds, we will help you in areas of great need'. But oftentimes we do not do things like that. 
There were times when, after the early equalisation arrangements that worked up until last year, we impliedly encouraged the industry to operate inefficiently in some areas. Equalisation to a great extent promoted unwanted product. There were occasions where factories were in fact living off the backs of enterprising, careful and prudent manufacturers in other areas who perhaps were manufacturing for the local industry, whereas the people that I am talking about living off the backs of those people were perhaps operating on an export market where returns were low; nevertheless they knew very well that they could increase the returns through the equalisation system. These were decisions of government that were made in good faith in favour, it was thought, of the dairy industry but which nevertheless did not really work efficiently. That is why this legislation, which I say for the third time is a second-rate alternative, will increase the possibility of the industry becoming more efficient. 
Australia happens to be an efficient dairy country. In terms of the statistics set out in the first IAC report, as I remember them, we were demonstrated to be second only to New Zealand in cost of production, and even that is arguable. Certainly we have a much lower cost of production than any other country apart from New Zealand. Despite the fact that we have an efficient dairy industry, it appears that we cannot deliver milk and milk products to the European Economic Community. Its barriers, of course, are reminiscent of ours, and hopefully ours are under question. That appears to be the present strategy. There is no good reason in terms of world economics that we should not be able to deliver a lot more milk to the EEC, but because of the artificial barriers set up around the world we are precluded to a large extent. Because of those barriers, and despite the fact that we produce very efficiently, we still cannot export enough product. We must remember that we need to adapt and that is what this legislation begins to do. We need to constrict our production within our own environment so that those people who exist on dairy farms can obtain a fair income. The thrust of this legislation is to screw down production levels, although not by a great deal in the first year, so that the returns on reduced production within a market that is prepared to pay fair prices for that reduced production will be adequate to keep farmers and their wives and children at a reasonable level of income. 
I note in the legislation and in the Minister's second reading speech that whereas butter is the main area for production quotas at this stage, cheese will come under the quotas if a review is necessary, and I regard that as being a very important rider. There is at the present stage a view that we can increase our production of cheese to a reasonable extent without creating downward pressures on the price. I am a little sceptical about that. I think that we need to keep the cheese production level very much under scrutiny. There is always the risk that we will reach the situation that we reached before in relation to butter and skim milk powder where, because of increasing production both here and in other countries, the returns became very low and caused the present plight of the dairy industry. I note also that the thrust of the legislation follows the views of the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation, which recently sent a telex to the Minister setting out its ideas on how selective underwriting should work. This legislation follows that very closely, although I point out that it does not follow it exactly because at this stage it does not impose production limits for products such as cheese. As I have said, perhaps we should look at that closely in the next year. At the present time the cheese industry is reasonably viable and quite a number of cheese producers are exporting at good prices. There are also a number of cheese producers- I happen to have a very important one in my electorate- who are producing for the domestic market on the basis that they have cornered a high quality market. They would not want to be prejudiced by a flood of cheese coming on to the market and cutting down their level of price return. 
To some people the legislation may be difficult to understand in terms of the levy and subsidy arrangements. If more time for debate had been available I would have had great pleasure in setting this out for the purpose of having it recorded in  Hansard,  but I find I cannot do that. It is probably sufficient to say that when I first read the legislation one of my great fears for my own area in Bega was that people who have the drive to go out and find high price export or local markets would be prejudiced by the legislation and would come back to a level where the assessed domestic price would suffice for their total payment. That is not the truth. There is scope for people who have the enterprise to go and sell on a  different market or in  a higher level market to reap most of the gains of that enterprise. I want to record the fact that I am pleased about that although, and I say this for the fourth time, it is a second-rate alternative pushed on to the Federal Government by the States because the States in their wisdom cannot agree on what they want in the dairy industry at this stage. 
The legislation does provide for some pooling of effort. That is good in the long term. It provides for some sort of self-help arrangement within the industry and, as with some other rural industries, we believe that that is a good springboard from which enterprise can operate. We recognise that it is not ideal because quotas will be based on production, for instance, which might have been distorted in the past couple of years for one reason or another, such as the propensity in Victoria to over-produce. Nevertheless, within that context the legislation is important. It will bring about a means by which people within the States can work towards a more efficient dairy industry in which the ordinary dairy farmer, because of the strength of this Government and its resolve to assist, can see his way clear to making a reasonable return in the long term. I very much support the legislation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the rate of sales tax levied on handmade silver goods and pottery. 
What revenue has been collected from these items in the last 5 years. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports of a violent demonstration in Sydney yesterday? Will he tell the House what the Government's attitude is towards such demonstrations? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister yet received the roads program for 1978-79 from New South Wales? Could the delay in the presentation of the program cause a lack of continuity of work for many contractors and for local government authorities? Will the Minister ensure that a joint statement is made when he approves the program to ensure there is public recognition of the Commonwealth's support as distinct from the New South Wales support for the New South Wales roads program? 
Immigration and ethnic affairs have to be a very big policy area in a country such as ours where something like one-quarter of its population was born overseas. I might say, with respect, that at present we have a big man with big capabilities heading that portfolio. Immigration is an emotional problem to many people. Obviously the decision to migrate to Australia is never arrived at lightly. That is one of the very big reasons that one needs a sensitive government which is able to put thought for people into the administration of this area. 
I was impressed with the case history which I have just heard from the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  although one thing he said offended me. I seem to remember speaking after him on another occasion not long ago. It offended me to hear him use the words 'crooks' and 'entrepreneurs' in the same breath because I think that we should remember that there are crooks in all parts of society, and thank heavens that we have entrepreneurs in Australia. I should say that many of the entrepreneurs we have in Australia who are making money- that is a very good idea in my opinion- have come to this country since the war. They are people of enterprise who are prepared to have a go. That is why they came to this country and that is why so many have come to love this country. 
I would like to comment on the Galbally report which was so quickly put into operation by this Government in such an effective way. I have only time to say that there is one item of the implementation of that report which I feel was a mistake and which needs to be said. I fear that  Mr Galbally  had the wool pulled over his eyes with respect to the Good Neighbour Council, but that is something I hope to be taking up with the Minister. 
There is a theory that immigration adds to unemployment. I have heard in this debate some mention of that possibility. I am very pleased to know that in the past year or so, for a change, the immigration question has been removed somewhat from the emotional area and the debate has become much more informed. I was pleased to read through the proceedings of the residential workshop of the Department of Continuing Education at the University of New England last year. This is a publication which was recommended to members by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  The subject of the residential workshop was Australia's population A.D. 2000'. A particular paper presented by Ainsley Jolley was headed The Macro Economics of Immigration'. I believe that this is one of the signposts of the immigration debate and that people are beginning to realise just where and when in the trade cycle immigration causes stresses or benefits on employment and other matters such as the balance of payments. I do not agree with all of the things that Ainsley Jolley has said but I do commend that paper for reading by all honourable members. Too often in this place debates on immigration become emotional. Sometimes people get up and say: 'If we have an increased level of immigration we are bound to have to that same extent an increase in the level of unemployment'. 
That is complete rubbish. If anything should be said, I quote from the paper to which I have referred. I quote one of the conclusions. It reads: 
If immigration were to be used as a means of economic stabilisation there would be a need to cut immigration at the peak of the trade cycle and increase immigration at the beginning of economic recovery. 
That is reasonably well proved. In the present situation, of course, we hope that we are at the beginning of economic recovery. But, even so, I think that Ainsley Jolley has overlooked one or two things that also need to be said. One of the things that is spoken about in this paper is the fact that at the bottom of the trade cycle when there is an excess capacity immigration in the first instance tends to use up only that excess capacity, so the increased demand from the new immigrants will not add so much to employment levels and, therefore, may add to unemployment. I think we need to bear in mind, however, that the goods and services that are required immediately by migrants tend to be goods and services in areas where there is not usually an excess capacity. For instance, I refer to the building industry. We do not have an excess capacity in the building industry in the sense that there are people who could produce more at the same level of employment. It is an industry in which with an additional level of demand more people are immediately required. The food industrythe essentials that migrants require when they first arrive- is an industry which requires extra people for each extra cabbage or potato. 
Even though I admit that perhaps at the bottom of the trade cycle immigration will add less to demand than it would at the peak, there is a case to be made, perhaps more strongly than even Ainsley Jolley has put it, that immigration at all stages of the trade cycle will add to demand especially of course at the top of the trade cycle, and that is a time when immigration perhaps needs to be cut. But when we are feeling the first very fragile commencement of a very solid movement forward in the Australian economy, now- right now- is, in my view, the time to increase immigration heavily in the way that it is apparently being done. 
Often there is a feeling in the Australian community- certainly this applies in my electorate too- that a low level of immigration is a means of cutting back on unemployment. Many people forget, however, that a low level of immigration is in many ways a contributor to our present condition. It does need to be said that it was the previous Labor Government that apparently did not believe in immigration. It was the Government that cut back the levels of immigration which made it so difficult for qualified brothers and sisters of migrants already in Australia to enter this country. It was the Government that created a situation in which in one year the net immigration to Australia was only about 20,000. 1 think it would be fair to say that the previous Labor Government was an anti-immigrant party, despite the fact that the propaganda it has managed to create in some of the ethnic radio programs would appear to have convinced many immigrants that the Labor Party is on their side. I think that the facts of recent history show that that has not been true and that the present situation under the LiberalCountry Party Government is quite the opposite. There has been a steady increase in the net immigration intake. In the last year instead of about 20,000 new migrants net there were over 60,000. 
There are still plenty of problems to get over. The problem of qualifications, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Scullin, is a very important one. No doubt all honourable members have come across people who want to sponsor people from overseas who have qualifications but have great difficulty in having their qualifications accepted in this country. We still have plenty of problems with the number of illegal immigrants to this country. I must say that those people are only making it more difficult for the people who are at the top of the queue and people who are trying to act within the law. Nevertheless, these matters cannot be argued fully in such a short debate as this. I repeat that Australia has a pro-migrant government. I want to see good and steady increases in immigration to this country as one of the prime methods of getting this country back on its feet. I am very confident that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs sees it that way. 
-This is a debate about a threat to the Australian community. I am surprised that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  Mr Lionel  Bowen, has had to carry on as though it was a matter of confrontation between the Government and the small group of people who are holding Australia to ransom. If you were to give the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition marks and you were able to remove marks for content it would have done rather well. It was a good lawyer's speech about nothing. I am surprised. He normally introduces substance into what he has to say. All he could do was to run off and talk about fuel pricing policy, things that had nothing to do with the debate. 
The boy wonder of the Opposition is now trying to interject. The boy wonder is always trying to interject. Maybe he will grow up one day. In a very serious debate the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has resorted to the making of stupid statements about the Government hating the Australian worker. I would say that neither the Government nor the Opposition would hate the Australian worker. I hope that we all are working towards an Australia in which everybody is allowed to go about his normal work. But the Deputy Leader of the Opposition just because he belongs to the Labor Party is forced into a position of trying to justify actions by a small number of people against the interests of Australians. Why can he not stand up and tell the truth and admit that the real issue in this case is that because a very small number of people originally tried to stop an ordinary working man collecting fuel with his own transport- a member who belongs to the 
Transport Workers Union of Australiaultimately the Australian transport industry has to be closed down. When that happens what will happen to Australia? 
No person in this country is above the law. We have said this in this Parliament. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has often said it. That is the reason behind the legislation that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition wants withdrawn. Not only does he want withdrawn the court action of the Seymour oil agent just to protect this union which seems to have its own ideas about being above the law but also he wants the Government to withdraw legislation which has been conscientiously brought into this House and which has proved to be the cause of a reduction in industrial action in Australia. I invite Opposition members to look at the results since this Government came into power. Just look at the reduction in the number of man days lost through industrial action. We have stupid situations such as this at a time when the Government is working with a very fragile economy- an economy that was put into decline by a deliberate policy of inflation by the former Labor Government; yet the Labor Party is willing to assist and abet a small group of people who want to put other people out of work, who want to close down productivity and who want to prejudice the lives and livelihoods of ordinary, simple Australian workers whom they purport to represent. I believe that it is just disgusting. I would like to hear some positive alternatives from members of the Opposition. They are talking about cutting out section 45 D of the Trade Practices Act. What would happen then? What do they want to do? Do they just want to let these small groups of people do what they are doing? I was amazed to read in the Press this morning this statement by the Federal Secretary of the Transport Workers Union,  Mr Hodgson: 
We are sick and tired of looking down the barrel of a gun provided by this Act. 
He was referring to the Trade Practices Act. He said: 
We have decided that enough is enough. 
Let the people concerned pull the trigger of that gun and we'll show them a real light. 
Who on earth does he think he is? Does he think he is a person who can act completely above the law, who can confront an Act made in the best interests of Australians and unilaterally decide that he knows what is best for Australia? Big deal for him. What would he say if all the other Australian people decided that they would not fulfil their obligations under the law? What would happen if everybody in Melbourne wanted to put his garbage out on the street? What would he have to say about that? His stand amounts to exactly the same thing. He has decided that his small group can just flout the law, but this Government will not stand for it. The actions of the Government in the last 24 hours on this dispute demonstrate very clearly that we will not stand for it. 
Australians have rights. Australians also have obligations, and those obligations are brought about by the fact the people do have rights. Australians have the right to strike; we are not taking that away. We want to take away the immunity to do things that are against the best interests of the community, things that go outside the processes of the law, things that try to put a few people above the processes of law. What do honourable members think that the union leaders will be doing when 5 per cent or 10 per cent of the Australian people are put out of work, however temporarily, by this dispute? They will be driving around in their black cars. They will be putting fuel in their tanks. They will get it from somewhere. They will be getting paid. The members of the Transport Workers Union and all the other unionists who will have work taken away from them as a flow-on from this dispute will not have petrol to put in their cars and will not have jobs. 
What do the union leaders care? They live in the big cities anyway. What do they care about the people in isolated areas, people who need fuel for their very livelihood, people who have to harvest the wheat, people who have to carry stores to country towns? What do the union leaders care about those sections of Australia? They care nothing. They are prepared to use a dispute involving, as I said, a working man who decides that he wants to collect his petrol in a certain fashion, as a trigger to set off an operation that will put many Australians out of work. 
The Commonwealth, of course, is particularly circumscribed in industrial legislation. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is accurate when he says that there is very little that the Commonwealth can do in the democratic system that we have if the Australian people want to stand up and in a widespread way revolt against any sort of lack of fair play. But we are not talking about any lack of fair play here. The Government can act only through a small number of devices such as the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. This is why the question of deregistration is a very important one at the present time. The Government can act only through legislation such as the Trade Practices Act, which is a genuine attempt to stop blackmail, to prevent people who are really scabbing on the workers from stopping others going to work. All that the Federal Government can do is to urge. That is why I believe that a debate such as this is so important. It is not a debate in confrontation with the union movement. It is a debate brought on by Government members because we believe that the Australian people need to be urged to act in their own best interests and absolutely go against the actions of a small number of unionists who are acting against them. 
As I said, no one in a democracy can combat widespread revolt. We need an Australian people who are prepared to work together. We do not get that support from the Opposition, and certainly that has been shown in this debate and in every other debate on industrial matters. Honourable members opposite are not prepared to stand up for the Australian working people, who deserve a fair go. They do not like to read the results of independent surveys such as the recent one which showed that, despite the fact that union leaders want as many pay rises as they can possibly get against all sorts of logic, most unionists are prepared to forego pay rises if it will bring down the rate of price increases. They read these things but they decide to put them in the wastepaper bins. They listen only to the doctrinaire people who set up these stupid policies of the Australian Labor Party so many years ago. 
Members of the Opposition should talk to the taxi drivers who went to Melbourne last night in large numbers and confronted the Transport Workers Union. These taxi drivers have wives and kids to feed. They want to go to work. They do not want to be caught up in a stupid dispute, involving, on the one hand, a single operator, a person who has acted within the law, and on the other hand, a small group of unionists who are not prepared to act within the law. 
This is a debate about a threat to our community. It is a debate about the fact that the transport industry affects the whole of the community because productivity flows from it. Our very fragile economy, which is picking up because of strong Government policies, is at risk because of strikes like this- and I suspect that the union movement knows it. I suspect that the control of the unions over the fuel situation as exercised by members of the Seamens Union of Australia, the refinery workers, the transport workers, and the clerks in the industry- they have all been going on strike- is, as the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has so often said, a conspiracy. There are plenty of people outside who also believe this. We can ill afford small groups of people luxuriating in their own pettiness putting stress on the nation as a whole, on consumers and on the working people of Australia. We know that and the people overseas who trade with us also know that. 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the growing number of Australians currently in gaol overseas on drug charges? Is he satisfied that all possible steps are being taken to warn Australians going overseas about the dangers of involvement with drugs? 
This Bill seeks to amend the amount of money to be paid to the States for urban public transport capital works in that it re-adjusts the time when that money will be paid to the States. It appears to be a simple enough amendment. I propose to speak about a number of corollaries of this general thrust in urban public transport, but first I need to answer one or two matters raised by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I was interested to hear what I thought was a sincere speech. Obviously he would like to see, as I would, lots of money made available for all sorts of things so that many of the things that we would like to see happen in this country can happen more quickly. However, I take it he would have enough intelligence to realise that money just does not grow on trees despite the fact that he did say that it is not a matter of the money not being available. 
Having made that statement he went on to talk about the proportion of gross domestic product being spent in the public sector. He mentioned, for instance, the level of public expenditure in various countries in the three years 1974 to 1976. I draw his attention to the fact that in Australia when the single decision to introduce the family allowance was made- most of this expenditure did not represent an increase in money going into the community although there was some increase- it obviously immediately increased public expenditure, without any, or with very little, increase in the amount of effective governmental support overall. We believed then, as we do now, that that was a good move in the improvement of equity within the economy, but it was a case of increased public expenditure with, basically, a book entry, given the average effect across the economy. In member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development the movement has been in this direction. The increase in public expenditure has not necessarily been caused by an increase in taxation on new programs such as capital works on urban public transport. It has more often been for use as a transfer of payment. 
I was also confused about the view of the honourable member for Shortland on the increases in petrol costs to the Australian motorist this year. He spent quite some time not talking about public transport but talking about private transport and I was very confused about whether he wanted us to raise the alleged extra $680m from motorists through excise. If he did agree with that, did he want us to spend it on urban public transport or did he want us to reduce payments to pensioners? 
We have not done that at all. But it is a matter of priorities, and it is a matter of making ends meet in the Budget. It is possible as a third alternative that he wanted the money not raised at all, in which case there would not have been so much money for urban public transport or for pensioners. The Australian people have come to recognise that the Government has to get the money from somewhere and this Bill results from a budgetary decision in line with another obvious need in the country to look in a more sensible way at the overall pricing of fossil fuels, which are becoming scarce, which we need more people to look for and which need a certain degree of conservation brought about by a more realistic pricing. 
A whole host of other things in the honourable member's speech were interesting to me, though many of the statistics he gave were, in my view, quite meaningless. In fact, he should have used them in the context of monetary amounts. When someone talks about percentages, sometimes it is very difficult to know what he means. When the honourable member says that about only 6 per cent of the New South Wales funding for public transport came from the Commonwealth by way of tied grants such as those provided for by this legislation I really do not know what that means and I do not think the general public does. I believe that if we are to have a meaningful debate we probably need fewer percentages and fewer statistics and a reasonable explanation of what they mean. 
Certainly, however, when the honourable member criticised the problem of inflation eating away the effect of the money that has been allocated, namely $300m over 5 years, he was not, in all sincerity, honest enough to acknowledge that the original legislation of this nature introduced in 1973-74 by the previous Government did not do that either. Of course, at that time inflation was running at a much higher rate than it is at present. I think the average over the years of the Labor Government would indicate that in the first five years of a program inflation would have been running at 1 1 or 12 per cent, which is higher than even the inflated prediction that the honourable member made for the five years of the present program of, I think, 8 or 9 percent. 
As I said, there are a whole host of other things which the honourable member said with which I would disagree, but I take up only one final point. He alleged malaise and low morale in the Department of Transport. I would just remind him of my view and the view of most Australian people that money does not necessarily increase morale unless it is accompanied by an ability to pay. If he spoke to the people he alleges to represent so well, namely the more disadvantaged people, he would be reminded of the problems that many people have through being induced into hire purchase contracts. 
I am reflecting not on the honourable member's constituents but perhaps on the way he represents them in the sense that he keeps saying in all his speeches that he represents especially disadvantaged people, when disadvantaged people at this stage of Australia's history clearly need a government that can manage the country and provide the goods that disadvantaged people need. 
There is no doubt that this Bill provides for a small drop in real terms in the amount going to urban public transport. There is no debate about the fact that if money is provided at a time later than originally intended then the purchasing effect is normally lessened by inflation. It is quite unclear what sort of drop we are talking about but it was made quite clear in the last Budget that because of budgetary problems there would be a deferment of part of the payments to the States for urban public transport. Certainly, however, there is a move in the time of the present Government towards more and more flexibility going to the States. Less money is being made available in the form of tied grants and more is going into general purpose grants. This is evident in many areas such as health and some road programs. It is a professed priority of this Government to ask the State governments to decide on their own priorities. Sometimes, especially as a representative of country areas, I wonder whether that turns out to be the right course. In most States, governments, especially governments of a Labor colour, seem to have priorities in larger urban areas where, of course, many of the seats represented by Government members are to be found. I will talk about that a little later. 
Despite what the honourable member for Shortland mentioned, the 1978 Bill has enabled some new projects to proceed. For instance, he would know that a large proportion of the $14m available to New South Wales this year is going to a new program of upgrading urban rolling stock for passengers. That is a new program; it was not envisaged at this level in 1973-74. But it does concern me that in New South Wales in particular, and my electorate is in New South Wales, the 1 978 Act is not functioning in the way that I believe it was meant to function. 
One of the interesting things about the 1978 Act was a change away from what I think is a basic obsession of Labor Party legislation with cities. The States are now at least given some scope to expand the definition of the word urban'. The 1978 Act, and the amendment to it which we are debating now does not change this, defines 'urban area' as a number of statistical divisions, including the capital cities, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong and Hobart, but also including 'an area that is, by virtue of a declaration in force under section 4, an urban area for the purposes of this Act '. 
In the second reading speech on the 1978 Bill the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made it very clear that the guidelines on which he hoped the States would act in this area would be that an urban area could be considered normally as a city or town of 40,000 people or more. I regret that there are no proposals yet coming from the New South Wales Government that look as if they will be able to assist in those areas. I know that there are not very many places with between 40,000 and 100,000 people in New South Wales. In fact, if one goes outside the specifically defined urban areas of Wollongong, Newcastle and Sydney in New South Wales, one cannot find an area with over 40,000 people. But I would like the State Minister to decide that he will give within his priorities a much better deal to the sorts of areas that constitute the big centres in the country areas. Of course, country areas tend to suffer marginally from New South Wales Government decisions and will probably suffer more in future after the proposed redistribution. I hope the State Minister does not forget those areas as he appears to have forgotten them in the past. The  Queanbeyan Age  of 16 June last year reported the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Cox,  as saying in relation to a discussion on the proposed Canberra-Sydney high speed rail link: 
We need and expect assistance from the Federal Government in this matter. 
Of course this implied- this is always good for headlines- that the Federal Government gave no assistance. The Federal Government is giving assistance under the legislation that we are debating at present. It is up to  Mr Cox  to decide that some of the money should be spent on the Sydney-Canberra rail link. I believe that at least some of the money should find its way outside Sydney. It does not appear to be doing that at the  moment. I would like very soon to hear a statement from  Mr Cox  that he proposes to help people in other areas. 
The Canberra-Sydney rail link goes through much of my electorate including a city called Queanbeyan, which is adjacent to Canberra. I should like to raise a specific question on the spending by the New South Wales Government of the money provided under this Act: Why cannot Queanbeyan be recognised as part of the Canberra metropolitan area? It is in New South Wales so the Commonwealth Government cannot supply money to Queanbeyan as a direct grant. Why cannot Queanbeyan be considered as part of the Canberra metropolitan area so that perhaps some of this money can find its way into Queanbeyan? I ask this not just because of parochialism but because of the special problems involved. Queanbeyan has really difficult public transport problems. There is a local operator who obviously has to work within the bounds of profitability or he cannot stay on forever. It is difficult for him to offer to the public the services that are required at many times. 
It is all right to talk about people in Canberra. They have a public transport system. I am not sure whether it is efficient or not, but at least it is a public transport system. It is partly subsidised by Canberra's state government, as it were, namely the Australian Capital Territory. Surely a cut of the State's subsidy dollar for the deficit on public transport could be directed to a place such as Queanbeyan that suffered terrifically, especially at the hands of the most irresponsible decisions within Canberra in the past six or seven years. Queanbeyan has suffered in comparison with most other country cities of New South Wales. I believe that as a matter of urgency New South Wales should see Queanbeyan as an urban centre which can easily qualify under the guidelines of the Act for part of this Commonwealth tied assistance for urban public transport. 
I believe that it is appropriate for a representative of a country area, as I am, to speak on the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Amendment Bill. I am always mindful of the special funding disadvantages of country areas. Perhaps at times we need to be a bit more open about some of these disadvantages. Perhaps one of the faults in the Australian communication system is that city people do not fully realise the number of subsidies that they get in all sorts of ways. Thankfully the present Government is bent on reducing this imbalance as much as possible. For instance, it is continuing a very good program on national highways that the previous Government introduced. That is helping country people a  great deal. It has introduced a substantial reduction in the differential in fuel prices between country and city areas. Of course this flows through to the cost of public transport and private transport in the country. 
Hopefully, in the near future according to the Minister, there will be some action. I am not sure how this will occur, but there will be some action on some of the more discriminatory petrol discounting methods of the petrol companies which very much assist places such as Sydney and Melbourne and certainly do not help country areas. The discounting process means that out of the money collected in country areas the discounting in the cities is subsidised. I think that is pretty obvious. As I said, there is a lack of communication between, and a lack of knowledge of the differences between, country and city. I commend to honourable members a program to commence next month known as operation farm link which hopefully will inform many city people of the disadvantages that we have in the country in regards to the use of taxation money. 
I summarise that I hope that the disadvantage that country people have in having to pay taxes to subsidise urban public transport deficits in the cities can be ameliorated. I hope that State governments- in particular New South Waleswill wake up that this Bill which we are debating this afternoon allows for assistance for urban public transport in cities of around 40,000 people and perhaps fewer. I hope that in the not too distant future the New South Wales Government will move ahead to spend some money in those areas as it has not done in the past. The people in those areas deserve a cut of the taxation dollar just the same as everybody else in Australia. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware of the widespread bushfires in my electorate of Eden-Monaro and in the adjoining electorate of Hume in the past few weeks. 
And in the electorate of Macarthur. Will government compensation, when available, be offered regardless of party political considerations to the landowners whose properties have been devastated by the fires? 
I was involved with the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  in drafting the amendment which has been circulated to honourable members. The amendment was drafted because whilst we thought that a great deal needed to be done by way of encouragement and to show guidance against the proliferation of abortion we also wanted to provide a solution in the motion which would support our view, with which I think the majority of Australians would agree, that abortions should be allowed to proceed in a few cases. It has been put by a number of speakers in support of the main motion that there must be some cases where it is necessary to condone a woman having an abortion; that is even if one considers on first principles that abortions in general should not be allowed. That is why we have framed this amendment. We believe that it is a practical solution that can give practical direction. 
The present debate is being held, I notice, both as to form and as to substance. Certainly, the form is one of money, of where the taxpayers' funds will be spent in certain areas. In my view the main essence of the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  was one of substance. The purpose was for this House to present an opinion which could guide the Government in its decision-making, albeit ultimately on the way it spends money. It is a debate on substance, on whether we believe that we can afford as a society to look upon abortion as something which does not matter. Perhaps they are heavy words. I certainly respect the views that I heard from the other side. It seems to me that there are two sides in this debate. The supporters of both sides say that they favor respect for humanity. The people who are in favour of abortion on demand or of abortion being fairly freely available see that view as being a humane one. 
I rather support the view taken last night by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  who sees the protection of life and the belief in the sanctity of life as the first and most important principle. I must say that the speech of the honourable member for Moore encompassed what I think most Australians believe, namely, that life is sacred, that people do not have the right lightly to remove it. If we condone abortion we are saying that people do have the right to remove life according to their consciences but perhaps against the well-being of society as a whole if sanctity of life needs to be supported in order to preserve our society. The issues are not simple. Yesterday morning I was relieved to read in the  Canberra Times  a statement by the Anglican Bishop of Canberra and Goulburn which fits in very closely with my view. I take the liberty of reading what he was reported to have said: 
It is regrettable that the debate about the costs of abortions being met from public and health insurance funds is again dividing our unity over the abortion issue . . . 
Nevertheless, the use of funds in this way should be determined, and public as well as parliamentary opinions expressed about it. 
I believe that that is a fair statement. The report of his comments continued: 
Ready access to abortion is one facet of the widespread indifference to life, and the value of human beings before God, that can easily be detected in our society. Violence in attitudes if not in action is becoming a way of life. 
On the other hand,  Mr Lusher's  motion is, in my opinion, too confined in restricting reimbursement of the costs of abortions to cases where the mother's life is endangered by her pregnancy. If the motion stands in that form without a broadening amendment, it ought to be defeated. 
I want this House to give a general direction to the Government to introduce changes in the provision of funds for abortions which will reflect a view that human life in this country is sacred. Therefore my amendment should be supported by members of the Government. As I said, the situation cannot be perfect. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said a few minutes ago, no matter what motion or amendment were put forward, it would be difficult for the Government to incorporate it in sensible legislation. Nevertheless, the general lead needs to be indicated. One of the great issues in this debate which concerns me is whether a motion such as the original motion or this amendment will have the effect of discriminating against poor women as against other women who can perhaps afford abortions. If, within the laws of the States- the States are the law holders and the law upholders- people have abortions outside the meaning of the resolution that results from this debate, it is up to society to help in some other way. I do not see that the relatively small amount of money required in such a case would be an imposition in very many cases at all. We are talking about sums of money that could not amount to any more than $150 or $200. In all sincerity, I just cannot see that in these days that amount of money, when it is related to such an important issue as this, is material. In this country we have laws which force people, for instance, to wear seat belts while in their cars because we believe that money needs to be spent to save lives. I think it is fair enough to force people to spend money to the extent where they have to think very hard about whether the preservation of life itself is to be regarded as a very first principle of the preservation of our society. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell and seconded by me. I suggest to the House that this amendment provides a very sensible approach to the issue. It is an approach which would have great support throughout the community, not only within the church- I include both the Catholic and Protestant churches- but also amongst a large number of other people who do have serious misgivings about the drift that we have had in our society towards a lessening of concern for human life. 
Members of the Australian Labor Party must be a group of masochists to bring on a debate such as this at a time like this. Time and time again I hear members of the Opposition raising matters such as this in order that they can fall into the deep pit. I have observed this debate with great interest. We had a heavyweight, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  against a couple of bantamweights and, I suggest, a wind-up mouse. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  the wind-up mouse, does not know what some of the words he used mean. He would not know what the words 'fiscal' and 'responsible ' mean but he probably would know what 'crisis' means because he belongs to the group of people who brought this country into a great crisis in the three years that people regret so much throughout our community. The Labor Party does not know where to jump. It does not know whether to applaud the Government. In recent speeches the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  implied this by grudgingly admitting that the economy is moving ahead. The Opposition does not know whether to applaud the Government or to condemn it with trumped up rubbish such as this taxation debate. The Opposition's charges are absolute rubbish as was proved by the figures that were introduced by the Treasurer this morning. Opposition members do not know whether they want higher taxes, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has told us they do. I quote what the Treasurer alluded to from the speech made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to the gathering of labour economists in Brisbane last year. What he said needs to be repeated to Australians time and time again so that they do not fall into the trap of thinking that a Labor government might be legitimate. The honourable member for Gellibrand said: 
If Labor does not gain office next election then by 1983, when we could next hope to gain office, we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of tax to enable us to do so. 
What does the Labor Party mean by that? That is what the honourable member for Gellibrand, the spokesman on Treasury matters, said. He wants to convince the Australian people that they will have to pay higher levels of tax. And Opposition members have the temerity in this House to criticise this Government when it increases taxes! This allegation is a stupid untruth. Does the Opposition want low taxes or does it want what the previous Leader of the Opposition said in 1972 in the Blacktown speech? Does it want to soak the people of Australia to pay for increased programs of all sorts? That is what was said in 1972 and what I have just quoted was said in 1978. In all cases the Labor Party admits that it wants to soak the little man and the rich man of Australia to pay for extravagant programs. I was amazed to hear the Leader of the Opposition say that the Opposition wants a marked change in economic policy. When has the Labor Party put up a viable economic policy that would be a good alternative to the policies operating at present? Never. It has suggested policies that are non-viable and that would require a marked increase in taxation to pay for them. A sensible policy has not been put up by the Opposition since it went out of office. One would have thought that the lessons of the years it was in office would have shown the Opposition that the Australian people did not want those policies that we had to live through for three years. Before the election of 197S taxation galloped upwards every year. In 1972  Mr Whitlam  said: 'We will raise the level of expenditure by taking the increase in taxation that will inevitably come from inflation'. That is what Australians were told. They fell into the trap and voted the Labor Party into office and that is the price they had to pay. What has happened since 1975? In real terms taxation has started to go down this year. I will not repeat figures that have been mentioned by the Treasurer but this year in real terms personal taxation is down. This has been the case every year that the present Government has been in office. Something has been done to help the little man, the man whom we represent, to ameliorate his taxation problems. In every year that we have been in office there has been tax indexation. Honourable members opposite cannot run away from that. 
I regret that we have not received very many pats on the back in the Australian community for this. People received this benefit in their pay packets on the first of July every year. They received this benefit in 1976, 1977 and 1978. On 1 July every year every taxpayer in Australia has found that he has paid less tax. Honourable members cannot avoid those facts. What is the use of the Labor Party moving a motion such as that trying to suggest that it is not the truth. Every working man in Australia knows that that is the truth. Every person in Australia knows the truth about family allowances too. Perhaps that is a peripheral area. I do not believe that it is and neither do the women in Australia, who represent 50 per cent of the population. The family allowance system allowed people who were paying hide or no tax immediately to receive something meaningful in the post every month. Many women with families were paying almost no taxation after the normal concessions. There were plenty of those people with five children who immediately received $25.50 a week. Those people remember the family allowance and it is no good denigrating it. It was a positive move by the Government, which believes in the average Australian and which believes in helping the person on a low income. All these taxation measures are in that direction. The family allowance was a positive move by this Government to help those people. I admit that it did not help those people on higher incomes who were paying higher taxation, or helped them only marginally, but the person on a low income was helped substantially. Those people well know and remembered it at the 1977 election. 
All sorts of things were brought in by the bantam weights in this debate. Things were said about the money supply. I would just like to know what the Leader of the Opposition means when he talks about our problems with the money supply. Of course there are problems with the money supply in an economy that has bottomed out; an economy where the degree of confidence has risen so markedly. Of course there are problems with the money supply because people now want to go and borrow money to invest in order to create jobs later on. We have problems with the money supply and we are battling with it as any responsible government would. What does the Leader of the Opposition intend to do with all his spending programs? How is he going to fund them? What is he going to do about the money supply? Is he going to do what the previous Government did and let the money supply go out by some 20 per cent in a year? Is that what he has in mind, or is he going to fund all these extravagant new programs that he keeps talking about by raising taxation, the very thing for which he is criticising this Government in this debate. Really, for the Opposition to raise a motion such as this just defies all credibility. The people of Australia who are listening to this debate and who read about this and know the attitude of the Labor Party know what is going on. 
At the end of the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition, in a very moving statement he said: 'It is time somebody stood up in defence of the rights of the ordinary people of Australia'. When has the Labor Party stood up for the rights of the ordinary people of Australia in the last seven years? When has it stood up for the ordinary businessman, the grocer or the fellow who has gained so many advantages from the present Government which has kept down the prices of the replacement goods that he has to buy? When has the Opposition ever stood up for the rural industry which is injecting massive funds through increased profits into the Australian economy at the present time? Opposition members should go out and talk to the working people who they allege they represent and ask them what they think about the things that were done to them during the period that the Labor Government was in office. They have shown what they thought about the Labor Government's policy at the ballot box in two successive elections. 
The ordinary little man of Australia, the ordinary Aussie who wants to get out and have a go, does not want to ride on the back of some other person who also wants to get out and have a go. The Opposition kicks the little man when he is down. It kicks the little man with high taxation and in speeches, such as the one in 1972 where it said that all the extravagant programs would be funded out of the little man's pay packet. The Opposition kicks the little man with statements such as the one made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  who said that he will convince the electorate that it should pay a higher level of taxation. The Opposition kicks the little man by making sure that investment in this country does not get carried forward, with the result that jobs disappear. It kicks the little man by cutting out opportunities for industry, such as the mining industry, which virtually closed down its expansion operations during the Labor Government 's period of office. It kicks the little man, but at the same time Opposition members stand up in this House day by day saying that they represent him. The little man of Australia knows that Opposition members do not represent him. I think that increasingly the word is getting around that this Labor Party does not represent the old values; it does not represent what it used to represent. It does not represent the little man at all. It represents the people who want to ride on the backs of other people. It wants to take money from a person who is prepared to have a go, to just give it away and spend it so easily. What does it want to do with the tax surcharges this year? All through the debates of the last few weeks, and through Question Time, we have heard so-called probing questions from the leader of the Opposition who keeps asking: What are we going to do? What are we going to do with the surcharge?' Does he want the surcharge to be taken off? Does he want us to go ahead with the things that we have promised we would do? Does he want us to increase confidence in this country, or has he a vested interest in stopping recovery? We suspect that that is the position, and that is what the little man also suspects. The policies of the Labor Party would destroy investment. These policies would destroy the confidence that has appeared in this country in a very fragile way during the last couple of years- a country that was frightened to death during the years of the Labor Government. The mendacity of the Labor Party on the question of taxation makes me feel ill. When one hears the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  accusing us of running high deficits, one wonders. One remembers so clearly that when the Government came into power in 1975 we had a situation where the deficit would have run into some $4,000m or $5,000m, not $2,000m or $3, 000m. We were committed to reducing that deficit. The honourable member for Batman should not talk about deficits is he does not understand what the word means. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask the honourable gentlemen on my left to remain silent. 
Yes, they are rather noisy. They have been doing a lot of shouting but that will not take away the fact that they no longer represent the little man in Australia. The more that is said in this place the better. I am just reminded that when the Labor Party members accuse this Government of charging higher tax it is very much like Satan rebuking sin. They are just trying to have the Australian people on. They are a high tax party, and they have no sense of repentence in that fact. They want to soak the 
Australian people in order to fund extravagant programs. I know that the Australian people will not fall for it again. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
What new space for Commonwealth Departments was built or rented by the Government in the Australian Capital Territory since December 1975 and where were these facilities located. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 27 February 1979: 
1 ) Is the National Mapping Division of the Department of National Development leaving Queanbeyan, NSW, to return to Canberra in mid- 1980 at the expiration of the lease on Morrissett House, Queanbeyan; if so, where are its offices to be located in Canberra. 
Are the new offices to be located in a new facility; if so, when was the decision made to build it; if not, is it an old facility and why is it becoming available. 
-I am again puzzled by the attitude of the Opposition on matters concerned with the economy. I am puzzled because it is difficult to define the attitude of the Opposition. It is difficult to know whether at any time in the future the Opposition is likely to put forward positive alternatives to the policies that its members choose to criticise. It is difficult also to know whether Opposition members are really interested in high or low inflation rates, in high or low deficits or in setting money supply targets or allowing them to run. It is difficult to know whether they have an interest in a wages policy. The Labor Party has now been in opposition for three years and it has yet to answer all these things. Members of the Opposition are very good at criticising, in a destructive sense, the firm resolve of the Government to bring this country back onto a sensible path. That is what is happening right now. 
It is difficult to know why the Opposition is so keen always to ask for higher amounts of expenditure while at the same time asking for lower deficits. It has even become fashionable in recent months for the Opposition to ask for lower taxation. Of course, that is a ludicrous proposition to come from a socialist party, If members of the Opposition stand for one thing- they probably should state openly what they consider to be the best alternative to the political system- it is higher taxation rates and higher amounts of government spending. That is the choice that the people have to make when they vote at elections in this country. 
I propose to talk about one or two points of the amendment later. Before doing so I address myself very briefly to the Appropriation Bills before us. The results on the expenditure side this year appear so far to be as pleasing as one could hope. There has been a great deal of talk especially from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  both at Question Time and at public forums in recent months about his fears that our expenditure targets would be exceeded by a large amount of money. If he was worried about that, he was not half as worried about it as I was. I am pleased to see that the amount of the extra expenditure- some $290m is provided for in these two Bills- is in the order of the amount of extra expenditure that we have seen provided in the past few years and certainly since this Government came to power when responsibility was reintroduced into the expenditure side of government. When one takes into account the saving of some $107m which was announced at the same time as these Bills were introduced we are left with a net increase in expenditure- I know this applies only to the expenditure side of the Budget- of $ 1 83m. This leaves us with a total increase over and above the predicted Budget outlays of only some two-thirds of one per cent. I believe that that is most commendable. Despite the fact that it has created a lot of difficulties in the minds of many pressure groups in our society, I think those people should realise that it has been a responsible expenditure regime of the past 12 months which has shown results. This contrasts, as I said, with the tremendous blowing out of expenditure that was becoming evident in the 1975-76 Budget which was brought down by the present Leader of the Opposition. One could quite legitimately ask at this time whether the Appropriation Bills (No. 1 ) and (No. 2) of 1975 were really misappropriation Bills. They certainly would have led to a great misappropriation of Australian taxpayers' funds if they had been allowed to have effect for the full year. 
I want to talk this evening about a matter which is probably more important than the present Budget. I refer to the whole problem that we seem to be facing in relation to budgetary thinking in this country. It seems to me that we are at a cross roads situation where we very rapidly need to re-think our whole budgetary ideas. The recent unavoidable slight increases in interest rates have very firmly brought home to the people involved in the money market the massive influence that the Budget in this country has on so many matters which indirectly relate to our whole free enterprise system. At present the Government is a major operator in the money market. Traditionally, apart from its dealings in loan funds, when the deficit was zero or slightly plus or minus, the Government was not a major operator. It certainly was not a major operator in the sense that it is now. But since it has become a major operator the cumulative results of massive deficits in the past four or five years have brought some quite terrifying prospects to this country. We are facing the prospect of having some 10 per cent of our total Budget outlay- it is provided after all by the current work efforts of the producers in our society- being interest on our deficits. In other words, we are facing the prospect of the interest being paid on the cumulative deficits being some 10 per cent of the Budget. It has not reached that stage yet, but that is what we are facing. We are facing an ever increasing problem of the cumulative deficit crowding out productive investment. As the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has just noted, a lot of short term money becomes due for renewal in the next 12 months. In order to continue with the programs for which money has already been raised, we are faced with another problem of raising more money which will even more crowd out productive investment. After all in our capitalist society- it is a system which has proved quite conclusively when one looks around the world that it is the best system for all people- it is tremendously important to keep money within the system so that the producers and the service industries, the productive people, can have that money for investment so that the welfare of our people can always be on the increase. 
At the moment we are habitually taking large slabs of money in order to finance the deficit away from productive enterprises. As I said, those enterprises after all ensure the welfare not only of the people in the work force but also of the underprivileged and of all those other people who are referred to in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. At the present time the problems of the deficit flowing through to the problems in the money supply are creating great uncertainty. The money market depends a great deal on a degree of certainty not only internally but also in relation to those people who might be thinking about increasing production through investment from overseas. One question- and this is a corollary to this discussion- whether the funds that needed to be raised and created the increase in interest rates should not have been raised a lot earlier in this financial year. In order to decrease the uncertainty in the money market that must arise when interest rates move one way or the other, perhaps the Government should make it fairly clear early in the year how much money will be raised. Perhaps by doing that, especially in the present context of having interest rates set more by market forces, the funds could be obtained and the Government could proceed from there without having to raise too much more money in the remainder of the year. Thus any money that came forward could be invested in productive enterprises without any fear that interest rates might go up. It is attractive not to do so. 
It appears that all governments in Australia have suffered in recent years by confusing politics with good management. I gently chide the present Government for being too human in this way. Politics- unfortunately all members of parliament realise this- creates situations where pressure groups, some wealthy and some poor, some big and some small - 
There are plenty of poor pressure groups. I answer that interjection because there is a constant problem in the pensioner and handicapped children's areas. These people form pressure groups too and they have legitimate claims on the wealth of this country also. I reiterate that there are a lot of pressure groups which come to the Government. It will always appear that in terms of votes it is more efficient to spend an extra $ 1 m. The votes gained by that expenditure will always appear to be more than those lost by taxing people an extra $ 1 m. This philosophy has appeared in all sorts of governments in recent years. Considering the work of pressure groups, I suppose that this is one thing for which politicians could be forgiven. In the light of the results of the elections held in 1975 and 1977 I wonder whether the Australian people want ever-increasing handouts or socalled middle class welfare? Do people want to transfer payments from the rich to the rich, from the middle income earners to the middle income earners? Or should we not be looking more to a sensible welfare policy that looks after disadvantaged people or, as referred to in the amendment, the underprivileged; so that we tax the rich to look after those people but not to look after themselves? I will quote from an article in the magazine  Fortune  dated 23 October 1978: 
In Keynesian perspective, such transfers may be all to the good since they put a floor under purchasing power as well as caring for human needs. But in a capital-hungry economy, when transfers are made from savers to spenders on a vast scale, they will destroy the raw stuff of investment and capital formation. The transfers can also undermine the capitalist incentive system, in which those who work hard, are supposed to be rewarded. 
I endorse exactly what that article says. The political weathervanes tell us otherwise.' The Australian people appeared to know what they wanted when in 1975 and 1977 they voted for a government that they knew would be tougher on expenditure and would, by its philosophy, have a lower tax aim. If we talk about means testing all pensions, perhaps we could adjust the means test to bring more people into the net. If at the same time we were to say that taxes would be reduced to that extent, or- and this is even more difficult- point out that the deficit to that extent would be reduced, thus allowing more money into the productive investment areas, I suggest that Australians would be sensible enough to know what we were talking about. 
Now is the time to say that we must halt expenditure rises. We are always left with the furphy of whether employment can be increased by pump driving. That proposition was alluded to in the speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand who represents a socialist party which sees that old Keynesian ploy as being a good idea in the present context. However it is not working now. It could be argued that we are pump driving now. If there is a deficit of $3,000m, what else are we doing but pump priming, and on a massive scale, but it is not working. We have seen that it does not work in the federal sphere and we have seen that it is not working in the State sphere. One or two years ago the Government in my State of New South Wales introduced schemes whereby people worked on roads. It did a lot of road work. It provided funds for all sorts of things in the same way as the old Regional Employment Development scheme was operated. I have noticed that the New South Wales Government is not introducing these schemes now. It found that the schemes did not get more people into the work force: If it had any brains it would know that Australians get into work when people invest money, provide productive capacity and create jobs in the private sector. That is our way to salvation. It has been the way to the salvation in recent years of countries such as Germany, Japan and, more topically, Korea. Many subjects can be discussed during debate on an Appropriation Bill. Thankfully, such scope is provided. I reiterate that it is time, for the good of the people of Australia, that we halt expenditure rises. 
I turn briefly to the amendment introduced by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I want to add to something he mentioned. He talked about the rural boom having nothing to do with Government policies. I remind him that if inflation had carried on in the way that the Labor Party seemed to be fostering it at the time it went out of business farmers would have had increases in the order of 30 per cent over and above cost increases they have had already. If that had occurred the taxation that we are gathering from the farmers and the additional investment that farmers will have in fencing materials, tractors, fertilisers, new cars and new fridges would not be occurring this year. By taking certain decisions, unpopular ones at times, we have managed to bring down inflation. The rural boom does have something to do with the very firm resolve of this government to promote overseas sales. Whether honourable members agree or not, the rural boom also has something to do with the November 1 976 devaluation. 
There are two points in the amendment that I do not like at all. If one is talking about economic strategies designed to reduce unemployment, I would say that our economic strategy, to the extent that it has not reduced unemployment enough, needs to be criticised to the extent that we have followed Labor's ideas. Within the Government there is fairly strong knowledge about that fact. 1 also criticise that part of the amendment in which the honourable member for Gellibrand referred to our 'increasing the deprivation of the under-privileged'. I repeat: The under-privileged of this country, the people who need to receive some money from the relatively well-off, depend on productivity and on other people having the go in them, the incentive, to go out and make that money. That is how we look after underprivileged people. We need fewer governments. Governments are not good at artificially tampering with the system. Given that governments have social and international obligations, they are here for oiling the system, not for clogging it up. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Capital Territory, refers to the supply of milk to the Australian Capital Territory market. The Minister will be aware of the much lower propensity of some milk suppliers to offer milk to Canberra at cut prices as was possible, in the short term, in the past three years. In view of the fact that the Canberra market deserves a stable price structure while maintaining high quality with a regular supply base, will the Minister inform the House whether contracts for terms longer than 12 months can be let this year? Is the Minister yet in a position to inform the House of the market share for each supplier in the coming period? 
This discussion on taxation today is a matter of public importance because taxation is the fuel for the running of the government sector of the community. Governments are bound to organise this sector and to ensure that it operates as efficiently as possible in the interests of Australians. It is good to hear that the members of the Australian Labor Party want to debate taxation openly. As the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has said, in any debate on taxation the Labor Party comes off pretty badly when one considers the way in which it went about its offices between 1972 and1975 and the way in which it would attempt to do so in the future especially if one is to believe some of the arguments that it is putting forward on taxes, such as the introduction of a capital gains tax. 
There is always much talk about broken promises no matter which party is in office. There is no doubt that at the present time the Opposition, which does not have positive policies, is using the allegation of broken promises on the part of this Government constantly to try to gain political capital. I notice from the results of the opinion polls on the popularity of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that the Labor Party is not doing too badly at trying to con the Australian people into believing that this Government is a government of broken promises. Opposition supporters have said at various times that this Government has broken its promises on such important matters as Medibank, wage indexation, pensions and taxation. They have accused this Government of breaking promises on pretty well anything one could name. But when one looks at the facts, at what was said in the various election campaigns and the things that have been preserved, one sees that broken promises do not come too freely these days and that this present Government has a resolve to keep that very important promise that it made, namely, to put Australia in an economic position in which ordinary Australians can go about their normal work, make a profit, invest and have enough left over to spend on their children. 
What is the record of the Labor Party on tax avoidance- the subject under debate? What is the Labor Party's record on tax indexation and tax reforms? It is absolutely zero. On all of these things it has done nothing. However, the Hayden tax reforms had the effect of taxing many pensioners who had not previously been subject to tax. Those reforms taxed people who came to me at the end of 1 975-76 financial year and said ': We have not paid tax before. What is this? We have to fill in a tax return and we have to pay tax this year. It is only a few dollars but we are frightened about it. ' That is the record of the Opposition on taxation and that is the record that the Australian people need to remember. They also need to remember, despite the fact that so many pensioners came to Canberra a couple of weeks ago to complain about some of the things that had been done by this Government, that it was the government which removed taxation on low income earners that was imposed by the Opposition when it was in power. 
This Government promised that there would be smaller government. The figures brought forward a short while ago by the Treasurer have demonstrated that this Government has a very firm resolve in that area. I hope that, as the economy can afford it and as people are relatively better off through good management, we will have smaller and smaller government. I believe that is what the Australian people want. If one can believe what is written in the newspapers and broadcast by the media this morning, the Australian people want smaller government, they want less taxation and they want less money transferred out of their pockets to go to those people who are already well off or to Governments which will spend it unwisely through bureaucracies that have built up so grossly in recent years. 
This Government wants a lower tax regime. That is what we have created. Our first step was the one to stop the taxation gallop that was created under Labor- created, I must say, with due warning. Due warning was given in 1972 by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  when he told the Australian people that he would use the inflationary aspects of taxationeverincreasing taxation because of inflation- in order to fuel his grandiose programs. So let us not kid ourselves about that. Our first step was to stop that galloping increase in taxation. Our first step was to introduce one of the very solemn promises of the 1975 election campaign, and that was tax indexation. That was introduced forthwith on 1 July 1976 and has operated ever since. Every working man in Australia who picks up his pay packet every week or month has known every year since 1 July 1 976 that he has more money to take home because of tax indexation. 
The second step which was able to be taken early last year involved the reformed tax scales. Those tax scales were tampered with unfortunately towards the end of last year because of the introduction of the tax surcharge but basically those scales remain. As I said, they removed the payment of taxation for many underprivileged people who, for the first time, had taxation imposed on them by a Labor government. 
Let us look at the effect of this Government's tax reforms through indexation and changes in the tax scales since 1975-76- since the Hayden Budget. I will give only one example although there are plenty of official statistics relating to people on all levels of income. Under the Hayden tax scales a man with a spouse receiving a wage of $ 1 80 a week would have paid $42.23 a week in tax. Under the coalition Government scales in 1976-77 this tax was reduced to $39.53. Following tax indexation on 1 July 1978, it was reduced to $36.99. It was further reduced under the new scales to $34.52 as from 1 February 1978. Since then the tax has gone up to about $36. Except for the tax surcharge there have been tax reductions because of the very firm policies of the present Government which promised lower taxation. 
The Leader of the Opposition has had much to say. Of course, he always has much to say but he used a good deal of mendacity- something that annoys the Australian people and certainly annoys me a good deal. He used statistics about taxes going up faster than incomes. He chose to misuse statistics. For instance, he chose to discount the fact that family allowances were introduced in a way that prevented taxation deductions being made. In other words, there was no net change for most people but there was a good net change for people on lower incomes. In another part of his speech the Leader of the Opposition implied that the Treasurer knew about consumer price index increases before the release of the information. That is a completely untrue statement. The Leader of the Opposition also talked about tax avoidance. What a record he had on tax avoidance when he was Treasurer. Absolutely nothing was done. The court case on the Curran scheme appeal was a matter of record as from 1973, well within the Whitlam era, but what was done about the Curran scheme by the present Opposition when it was in government? Absolutely nothing. 
What does the Opposition talk about now? It talks about a capital gains tax. Opposition members refer to it at every Question Time. They talk about it every day. I hope that the type of capital gains tax that the Labor Party wants to introduce, as is shown by its record, will be well known to the Australian people by the time of the next election. What is going to happen to pensioners under a capital gains tax? What is going to happen to the taxi driver or person on wages who has saved up and invested and, by his own efforts, has been able to buy a couple of flats? What is going to happen to people who own a block of land? What is going to happen to all the people in Australia who know that saving and investing is the only thing that will help them and their children in the future? 
It is well documented now that the Opposition wants a capital gains tax. It wants to hit the soft underbelly of the ordinary Australian who is prepared to save and invest his money. Opposition members can talk about all those other things they would like to do for the ordinary working man by way of his pay-as-you-earn taxation, but they have not done anything about them. That too is a matter of record. Now the Opposition is talking about substituting any increases in personal income tax with a capital gains tax. It is an insidious tax, one that under a Labor Government would not be indexed. The Labor Party when in government has never indexed any revenue-gaining scheme, and that also is a matter of record. The Labor Party, in raising the tax matter again and again in this House, is putting nails in its own coffin. At least the Government is willing to admit that it wants less tax whilst at the same time wanting less in government programs. For the Labor Party to do this is absolutely mendacious. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister may be aware of a statement by the Leader of the Opposition which appears in today's  Canberra Times  and which alleges that I stood by while last week's fiscal measures went through at some cost to primary producers. Will the Minister tell the House what effect the policies of the Australian Labor Party had on the rural sector, particularly its policy of" fuelling inflation? 
-I refer the Minister for Industrial Relations to the announcement of the amended and slightly extended investment allowance arrangements and ask how the changes will affect business. Further, and in particular, how will the new arrangements affect those businesses whose entitlement has been threatened by industrial disruption by holding up the commissioning of equipment which must reach the stage of operation before the allowance can be claimed? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
There appears to be some vying for credit for this measure. I would just remind the Opposition members that the runs are on the board and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has produced the goods. There is no doubt whatsoever that this measure will save money in the long term, but that is not the point. It is cost effective and that is what many of us on the Government side of the chamber have been saying to the Minister for a long time. This debate provides us with a chance to remind honourable members and the people of Australia that concern for the socially disadvantaged is typical of this Government. The socially disadvantaged will always win under a government of our persuasion. 
Opposition members- Ha, ha! 
-There is much laughter from the members of the Opposition. They are very good on words but when it comes to effective deeds we see that they are very small. I remind the Opposition of this Government's record. I instance the indexation of pensions that was introduced for the very first time by this Government. I instance family allowances, which for the very first time gave low income families an opportunity to take advantage of money that would go to mothers to assist in the support of their children. I also instance the massive amount of money that is going into the funding of aged people's accommodation. These forms of assistance are going not to relatively well off people but to the socially disadvantaged. The assistance is going to them because of the positive measures of this Government. I am most relieved that after quite some time during which there were many representations from members of this place the domiciliary nursing care benefit is to be extended in a time when the Australian people understand that the Government needs to be careful with taxpayers' money. This is a most commendable measure and I know that both sides of the chamber support it. 
-I have been told by a friend of mine who was working in Europe some months ago that the playwrights of Europe are saying, through their plays, that the people are becoming greatly disillusioned with the state. Of course this experience is not new in history or in location. The people of ancient Rome had the same experience but perhaps realised it too late.  President  Carter, in the 1 979 State of the Union Address, said: 
We have begun for one of the few times in history actually to dismantle a major federal bureaucracy . . . It is not enough to have created a lot of government programs. Now we must make the good more effective, improve or weed out those which are wasteful and unnecessary. 
In our own context here in Australia there is ample evidence that governments, having been given a massive chance in the past 10 years or so, have fluffed it. I believe that there is an increasing awareness amongst our people that this is so. I should point out most emphatically that there are some areas of government revenue raising and spending where I would always want the Government to be involved. There is a very firm obligation on us to be prepared to pay taxes so that the most necessary reallocations of income can be effected. I refer of course to support for the underprivileged, the disadvantaged and the handicapped; to the frail aged and to the genuinely unemployed. I stress that there are some other areas of government involvement where only governments can do the job- in areas of diplomacy, defence, the basic maintenance of our roads, to name a few. Governments will have to be involved and hopefully involved in as cost efficient manner as is possible. 
Having pointed out those most obvious areas, I would now say that governments in Australia are at present taking too much from us to support other aims of government which are best carried out by individuals or groups of individuals within our communities. Further, the Government is getting too much involved in areas of socalled redistribution of income which are counterproductive and which have in many cases very little effect at all. 
In any formulation of a code of aims within our system I believe we must recognise that industrial capitalism has proved itself the most efficient means of increasing the wealth and hence potentially the welfare of our people. The tremendous gains across the whole spectrum of Western society that have occurred in the past 200 years are very much due to that system of industrial capitalism which almost all Australians recognise by their own behaviour as being part of our way of life. What we often forget is that that system requires as much of the means of production being left in the hands of individuals and companies as is possible. As a corollary, it requires that as little as possible be put in the hands of the bureaucracy. 
In almost every attempt artificially to alter our society for the better governments, when they have acted alone, have failed. The grand designs of the Whitlam era were magnificent but inevitably were not achievable because the very means of achieving those aims through our capitalist system were being eroded. Galloping taxation took away the very fuel within the system which was needed to achieve expanded social aims. Unless individuals are to be left with enough capital and incentive to produce more goods and invest more the extra goods required will not efficiently be available to allow for more humanitarian material achievements. 
Sometimes governments believe also that they should raise taxes from us because they believe they can run enterprises more efficiently than people in free enterprise do. In my very electorate we have the disastrous effects of such a move in that $5 or $6m of taxpayers' funds have been ploughed into a government owned brickworks in Canberra. Not only has it created chaos through its artificial price cutting activities but also in the process it has lost money, which one way or another must come out of the pockets of taxpayers in the future. 
We must also question several of the actions of governments in the social security area. Taxing the rich to pay family allowances to the rich seems absurd. At present the Government uses vast quantities of our money by way of borrowings to support programs which cannot be covered in the normal Budget revenue raising. Might it not be more efficient for that money to be used by us through normal lending channels so that more young couples can build houses at a lower rate of interest on their borrowings? Might it not be better to have that money not being sucked out of the system so that interest rates can be lowered, thus providing greater incentive for individuals and companies to build more factories and to create more jobs? Given that our society, through its governments, is forced to provide a good basis for the underprivileged, the disadvantaged and the handicapped and given that there are some other programs that cannot be covered by any agency other than governments, I ask really whether governments can be trusted with our money to provide a better society than we, as individuals and as communities, can provide? The debate on this tremendously important subject needs to be stirred up in Australia now, before we drift into the economic and ultimately social morass that the ancient Romans found themselves in. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. He will be aware of the tremendous interest in the fishing industry, not only in my electorate of EdenMonaro but also in all other coastal electorates around Australia. There is interest in the exciting changes in the industry at present and, in particular, in the proposed 200-mile Australian fishing zone. In view of that great interest is the Minister able to tell the House whether a date for proclamation of that zone has yet been indicated? 
-As I listened to the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  I was reminded of what I have said in this House before. When the Australian Labor Party starts talking about taxation and condemning people who allegedly reduce taxation it is a little like Satan condemning sin. The Labor Party is known as a party of high taxation. It is on record. Labor supporters say: 'We would prefer to raise more taxes. We would prefer to have wider socialism. We would prefer to look after your affairs for you'. That is their style and that is what some people vote for. If people want to vote that way I respect their wishes, but I cannot see why the Labor Party should talk about wanting to cut taxes when its platform states that it does not want to cut taxes. I just wonder why a man like the honourable member for Banks who comes from an area which produces such fine footballers and who would hope that his team plays with all its strength next Saturday has to go on like that. 
-I certainly hope your team wins because on last Saturday's performance it deserves to win. I repeat what has been said. Yes, the Budget was well received. I was very pleased about that. I was particularly interested to see on Budget night the frustrated look on the faces of most members of the Press upstairs after the Budget was delivered. As distinct from last year when they had written their reports a couple of days prior to the delivery of the Budget- perhaps their reports were somewhat accurate in their criticisms- this year they had completely run out of stories. They kept saying: 'There is no story in it; it is too dull'. That is exactly, I think, what we wanted this year. We wanted a Budget that addressed itself to some intransigent problems, a Budget that looks squarely and in a businesslike or tradesman like manner at the problems confronting the economy of this country and a Budget which provided sensible answers to those problems. Perhaps that is why the Press found the Budget dull and found nothing to write about it except that the tax improvements that were quite obvious on paper may not seem obvious in one year or two year's time. We have been over that. Despite what the honourable member for Banks said about taxation being cut, I think everybody knows that now. 
In the context of the strengthening recovery of the economy of this country I think it is just as well to have a quick look at the basis of the Opposition attack. I believe that the essence of the Opposition attack was spelled out clearly in the very crude speech given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  which offered no overall assessment of the Budget but which threw up some alternative schemes. All of those schemes pointed towards the desire of the Opposition to have a more expansionary Budget. I think that is about all we could say with certainty about the Opposition's approach to this Budget. The Opposition wants an expansionary Budget. 
An expansionary Budget means a bigger deficit, in the terminology of the Press. At the present time, though, we cannot afford a more expansionary Budget than what, in traditional terms, I would call the expansionary Budget that we already have. We do not want to pump prime in the present situation. We are trying to dismantle the pump, give it a good grease and oil change and get it moving into the 1980s. No priming is required. Priming is the sort of thing which in the 1930s, in the Keynesian system, might have worked. It will not work now. For a start, the Keynesian assumptions do not apply at the present time. One of the very important Keynesian assumptions that the Labor Party spends a good deal of time ensuring that it never works is that when unemployment goes up wages go down. That assumption does not apply in the present situation. In the Keynesian model it did. In the Keynesian model pump priming in that context would probably have worked. But already we have massive pump priming. The previous Prime Minister tried it. It did not work. It patently did not work and it will not work in the present situation. 
I would like to quote from the annual report of the Reserve Bank of Australia for 1979 on this aspect. It states: 
Expansionary policies may offer some immediate relief through, for instance, more government employment. However, in assessing such proposals, there is need to consider the contribution that the firmer and steadier stance of policy in the previous few years made to the pick-up in private activity that did occur in 1978-79, and also to recognise the risks for inflation and confidence of the relaxation of financial conditions which in fact took place in that year. Proposals for easier policies have to take account of possible adverse sensitivity of the private sector to an enlarged budget deficit and to the monetary expansion which could ensue, with potential for a resurgence of inflationary expectations and of inflation itself. This is important because of the impact which inflation has been seen in past years to have on the willingness of consumers and businesses to plan forward, to spend and so to create more jobs. 
Of course when there is talk about more jobs the last thing that the Opposition would want is more jobs. The report continues: 
There is also the matter of the vulnerability of the balance of payments to foster growth in domestic liquidity. For these and other reasons there must be doubts about the extent to which unemployment can be reduced simply by demand stimulus. 
That sums up the Reserve Bank's and my assessment of the stupid policies that the Labor Party would pursue through its alternative embyro Budget. Let us consider what would happen if the job call of the Leader of the Opposition got moving. Any reasonable person, by multiplying the number of people involved and the cost of employing people, would have to arrive at about $500m a year as distinct from the $80m to $100m quoted by the Leader of the Opposition in order to finance that. There are two possibilities- either increase the deficit or increase taxes. I am saying that very simply. If taxes are increased there is less drive in the private sector, ending up with less disposable income for taxpayers and less spending on productive capacity for things in the moving economy at present such as exports. In short, if taxes are increased-this is what the Government has always believed-there will be in the present context fewer jobs. 
Unfortunately I am unable to conclude my speech this evening because the debate will be interrupted. I will have much more to say about the Budget and I hope to do that tomorrow. The alternatives being presented by the Opposition are just not on for Australia at the present time. The Opposition's alternatives which would take us right outside our capitalist system are just not on for the working men and women of Australia- the people whom we as a coalition are bent on supporting in the context of the present Budget. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last night before I was interrupted I was talking about the means by which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  proposes to finance some of the grandiose schemes which he mentioned in his speech in reply to this year's Budget. I was wondering how on earth he thought that the $500m spent on a job call would save a single job. I pointed out that one alternative for raising money would be to increase taxation but that the net result would be to lose jobs. The other alternative that he would have for raising the money would be to increase the deficit, and he would do that. Of course, he would have to borrow more money or print more money but it is basically as simple as that. If he borrowed more money in the present circumstances it would mean a further increase in interest rates which obviously would push costs up not only to the large borrowers but probably, and more importantly, to the small borrowers and the young couples who want to build houses. Those people would put that decision off if interest rates were high because it would mean that they would have to pay higher repayments. That, of course, produces a lessening of job opportunity in the community. 
Apart from that, an increase in the deficit- this is something that the Government has been extremely mindful of- inexorably increases a long term debt. If one looks at that part of the Budget we find that this year we have gone through the $2,000m mark in debt repayment. We have to raise that money annually from taxpayers in Australia. I am very unhappy that my children are going to be saddled with debts that governments of this era have been incurring. That is something that is not airy fairy; it is a fact. Nevertheless, if the deficit were increased to cover some of these schemes we would have to either print money and create inflation or borrow more and still create inflation. Either of those actions will mean a lowering of confidence. Perhaps the most important aspect of the economy at present is the confidence that is required to keep this fragile and gradual increase on the move. If we lower confidence at this stage, as I believe the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is proposing, we would have an effective drop in the creation of jobs.  (Quorum formed).  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the drawing of attention to the state of the House and the forming of a quorum was unfortunately a device to try to interrupt what is really - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Before the honourable member goes any further, I might add that it was touch and go, quite frankly, whether there would be a quorum in the House. If there had not been a quorum in the House, it would have been necessary to close the House down. The quorum was formed as the last grain of sand fell through the sand-glass. I draw the attention of all members to that fact. 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications will be aware of very strong representations over a long period by such people as the honourable member for Ballarat, the honourable member for Macarthur and me encouraging the issuing of a special stamp next year for Apex, a great Australian organisation. Can the Minister inform the House of the present position on the decision-making in regard to this stamp? 
Has the  Deputy  Prime Minister received telexes from the New South Wales Premier requesting talks with the Commonwealth on the establishment of a centralised drug intelligence system and requesting Commonwealth co-operation for a planned visit to Bangkok by  Mr Justice  Woodward? What action does the Government propose in response to these requests? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
1 ) Is there an Airworthiness Advisory Circular relating to the prohibition of the use of motor gasoline in aircraft engines. 
Is there evidence that the use of motor gasoline in aircraft has actually caused accidents (a) in Australia and (b) overseas; if so, what is that evidence. 
-I refer the Minister for Health to his statements in the last couple of years urging the States to consider the conversion of some sections of hospitals- in particular, geriatric sections- to nursing home care with the concomitant introduction of a fee structure. As the Minister has visited many country areas in New South Wales recently, including Bega in my electorate, and has had discussions with a number of hospital administrations concerning various aspects of this question, can he report to the House the present position with regard to progress on these matters? 
-I might have been excused for thinking, having heard the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  that this was a debate on crude oil pricing and the energy policy of the Government. Of course, we would always be happy to debate those matters. It is always disappointing to hear members of the Opposition. Given that they were in government I am quite sure that they would not change the basic policy. It is always very interesting to hear them talk about the crude oil pricing policy as if we had very many options. They know very well that we cannot isolate ourselves from world markets. They know very well that, if we started to go into that sort of system for very many products, there would be a complete revolt in this country. How would it be, for instance, if the beef producers in Australia were told that they would have to sell their product at an artificially low price because the 
Government wanted to plan the economy and force down the market price. I am mystified why the Opposition does not face up to the fact that the United States of America is no example to look at in terms of an energy policy. The United States at present is making a complete mess of energy matters. Because petroleum is so cheap in America- it is still relatively cheap in Australiathat country faces a far more difficult period than we do. Conversely, because we are at least a little realistic about these matters, our consumers, the people of Australia, will face a far better period. 
We are talking about stagflation. We are talking about an intensification of stagflation. It is interesting that the very use of the word 'intensification' in the matter proposed for discussion presupposes that stagflation did exist. It obviously presupposes also that it must have started in the time of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. It certainly did not exist before then. As everybody knows, by its actions whilst in office, the Labor Party did everything it possibly could- perhaps it did not do so in any deliberate way- to fuel inflation. It did everything that it could by a number of other measures to increase unemployment. These problems resulted. Inflation soared and unemployment, for the very first time since the Depression, reappeared. The Labor Party in its policy speeches before the 1972 election began to tell people that there was a large cake and that the wages policy would have to change. The Labor Party told the people that there was plenty of money for everybody without having to work any harder. It was not very many years after that that some of the more sensible people in the Labor Party had to renege on those statements and admit that one man's pay rise may be another man's job. 
By its actions in the public sector when in government the Labor Party encouraged private sector wages to increase. It said that it had to be the pacesetter and lift the level of wages. It said that it must therefore reduce profits. By doing this ultimately the number of jobs would be reduced. The Labor Party bled the working man dry with taxes. It was in that period that taxes increased so dramatically. Even in his speech on the 1 979-80 Budget, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  continued to advocate the same sort of direction with taxes; he spoke about a top marginal rate of tax which would amount to a super tax in this country. He has not pulled away from that position nor can he because the very interests of the Labor Party are involved through its socialistic policies in increasing government and therefore in increasing taxes. That is a matter of Labor Party policy that has been well known and well documented for many years. The Labor Government ran huge deficits. It collected incredible amounts of taxes compared with earlier periods and it still ran huge deficits. It still, therefore, put pressure on interest rates. 
-Well, just have a look at the deficit this year and have a look at what we have been criticised for. We have just been criticised for trying to pull back the deficit. I have just heard the honourable member for Gellibrand suggest or imply that we should be looking for a surplus if we are looking for full employment. I am not quite sure what he wants. Does he want a large deficit as his cronies in the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic Research want or does he want a lower deficit or, in fact, a surplus? It is very difficult to know because we find conflicting statements every day from the Labor Party. 
Certainly, the word 'stagflation' is an in term. One reads it in the economic Press these days. I take it that it means what the honourable member for Gellibrand said it means. He talks about stagflation as being a period when there is high inflation with contraction and therefore, I take it, high unemployment. I think that is what he said. 
I reiterate that if we do have a thing called stagflation which, I must say, we are starting to move out of, it was a new trick in the Australian economy and the new trick was performed by the Whitlam Government. The new trick would be intensified if there was ever to be a change back to that type of government, that socialist government, that wants to interfere, to tell us what to do with our money, to tax us more and to increase government and wants us to think that profit is a dirty word. 
The present Government at least is positive. It is pulling Australia back from a very difficult situation in which we seem to have an endemically large deficit. That deficit was built in by the policies of the previous Government. People were taught to expect the Government to look after them in so many ways that they had never anticipated. As any honourable member on either side of this House would attest, it is common for the Australian people now to want to know why they cannot get a bit more for this and a bit more for that. It is common often with people who can well alford to supply the services that they complain they are not getting from the Government. The Labor Government had a very important psychological effect on Australia. People are expecting what they should not expect. They should be prepared to go out and earn them for themselves. Given an economy where market forces in some measure are allowed to act and given an economy where taxation is at reasonable levels, people will go out to find answers to the problems that they presently expect the Government to correct for them. 
I ask honourable members to have a look at the two sides of what is called stagflation. We have, first of all, the unemployment side- the contractionary side. We heard the honourable member for Gellibrand talk about the recent Budget as being contractionary. What about the boost to exports that the Government has been encouraging in the past year or so? What about the aims to increase overseas confidence? And there is overseas confidence in this country. Certainly there is evidence of that fact if one looks at the range of projects foreshadowed and the range of projects for which, already, money is starting to flow into this country. There is evidence of overseas confidence if one looks at our international competitiveness as measured by the relative exchange rate in recent times. If honourable members are talking about contractionary budgets, why did tax cuts occur in the last Budget? Why did we go ahead with the change to the tax scales. Every wage earner will find these cuts in his or her pay packet in two or three weeks time. I admit that the recent Budget was a very tight one. It was one in which the Government was prepared to face up to its responsibilities on behalf of the Australian people and to try to cut back on Government programs so that the tax scales would not be as high as they would be with the grandiose schemes of the Labor Party. In the Budget the Government was prepared to face that deficit situation. We must remember that that deficit situation has created many traumatic side effects in our economy, not just interest rates, but also a long term debt with which my children might be saddled unless we can have a long term continuation of sensible government. 
On the employment side, I hope that the Opposition would recognise that whereas quite some time ago we had a participation rate of some 59 per cent of the population in the work force, we now have a participation rate of some 6 1 per cent. In fact, as a proportion of the population, there are now more people in the work force than there were 10 years ago. I also hope that when the Opposition thinks about these things it will recognise that there has been an increase in jobs, particularly in the private sector, in the last 1 5 months or so. That is in stark contrast with the situation during Labor's term in office, when admittedly it was able to increase the number of jobs, recognisably in the public sector; that sector which is a service sector; that sector which is meant to live off the productive capacity of the remainder of Australia. 
The situation has changed. Jobs are appearing now in the private sector; a large number of jobs. If we look at the unemployment figures, it is very interesting to note that in October this year the prospects for young people in Australia are better than they have been for the last four years. If we look at the inflationary side of stagflation, it has been recognised by both sides of this House that the rate of inflation must be got down as a precursor to recovery. This Government has worked very hard to achieve that aim and it has achieved a great deal in these areas, given of course that there are some wild cards in the pack that it does not seem to be able to control. The Government cannot control them mainly because of constitutional difficulties. I refer, of course, to wage demands. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  who swaps around from horse to horse, in one of his more sensible moments, in his 1975-76 Budget Speech said: 
Our present level of unemployment is too high. 
That was in Labor's time. 
If we fail to control inflation unemployment will get worse. 
That is why this Government is trying to get the rate of inflation down. This Government recognises that inflation is not particularly important of itself, but it is important because of the flowthrough to all people in the economy, the flowthrough effects on the confidence of the economy, and the flow-through to the working people and the old people. There is no case where that flow-through is beneficial. It is not beneficial in the long term and that is why this Government is trying to get the rate of inflation down. That is why this present Budget was castigated a minute ago by the shadow Treasurer. That is why this present Budget, in trying to get people into a situation of confidence through tax cuts, and encouraging exports, continues to bear down on inflation. 
I am not sure that the Labor Party knows what it thinks about the economy. I do know that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development figures, which are fairly important figures on inflation in the OECD countries, show that in the period 1971 to 1976, which was primarily in the Labor Party years- perhaps if we referred only to the Labor Party years we would find an even worse situation- Australia's average rate of inflation in that five-year period was 10.8 per cent. That was more than the OECD average. Yet between 1961 and 1970- the whole period of the sixties- our inflation rate was always substantially lower. In that previous period our inflation rate averaged at 2.5 per cent against the OECD average of 3.4 per cent. Look at what has happened now. If we take the worst possible period- the six-month period up to September 1 979- our inflation rate was 10.3 per cent and, on average, the OECD rate was 12.9 per cent. That is what we call 'The proof of the pudding being in the eating'. That is the result of the Australian people electing our sort of government, because our sort of government knows the results of having a badly run economy. Our sort of government believes that every person in this country deserves to make a profit, and everybody in this country deserves a job. 
There are emerging results. There is an increase in the real gross domestic product which is in stark contrast to the last part of 1975. Exports are up, and if honourable members opposite are interested in these figures and want to find out more, they should talk to General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd. I also point out, as an index of our competitiveness overseas, brought about largely by government policy, the Syntec index of international competitiveness dropped from a base of 100 in 1972 to 92 in the Labor years through to 1975. It is now up to 115. That is a great pat on the back for the present Government. Largely, that is why there are such massive projects now in prospect in Australia. 
We can be confident for the 1 980s unless, of course, there is a change back to the gross interference, the big government, the higher taxes, and the very sucking of the country's lifeblood that we would expect if we were to change back to a socialist party. 
