1 address a question to the Treasurer. Why are overseas interest rates consistently higher than those prevailing in Australia? Is it correct that interest rates of 8% to 10% and even higher are considered reasonable in the United States of America and on the Eurodollar market? If so, how will Australia fare when attempting to borrow at these higher interest rates and then endeavouring to re-lend in Australia where interest rates are much lower than those applicable overseas? Will such borrowings overseas and subsequent re-lending in Australia be supported by the Commonwealth Treasury in order to be competitive with Australian interest rates? 
In view of the world  wide consternation caused by the use of DDT and other contaminating pest killers, I ask the Minister for Education and Science whether the Government is taking any action to prevent the use ofDDT in Australia. Have Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation scientists made a breakthrough in producing substitutes for DDT? If so, what action is being taken to use these substitutes on a commercial basis? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. As Great Britain has suffered one of its worst influenza epidemics of modern times, I ask the Minister whether the health authorities and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories are prepared for the same sort of epidemic in Australia. Have companies and commercial houses been advised to initiate and maintain influenza immunisation programmes during the forthcoming months? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Whilst it has been said by the Minister that the economic theories of the modest member of Parliament are identical with those of Adam Smith of the 18th century, I ask: Have not the Government's protectionist policies been self-defeating and certainly have not cured the ills of our rural industries? Is it not true that problems of the primary sector have not and will not be solved by massive price subsidies, deficiency payments, home consumption price fixing and support and production quotas devised in isolation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. In view of the fact that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has criticised the increases in prices of BHP products, will the Minister advise  Mr Hawke  that BHP competes with overseas producers and must have regard to this competition? Do unions have regard to wages paid in Japan and other low cost countries before applying for and, indeed, demanding and striking for higher wages and over-award payments or do they look at these matters in isolation and have no regard for brother unionists overseas? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service and 1 ask whether it is a fact that, due to the continuous wage demands by unions in Australia and the militant manner in which these demands are being made, the normally accepted principles of conciliation and arbitration are now threatened. Has this challenge by unions reached a free-for-all stage and will the powerful unions eventually push the system to the wall? Will this be to the detriment of the less powerful unions and certainly to the detriment of Australians generally? 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Whilst it is true that expenditure by all sections of the community has been increasing in recent years, is it correct that government spending is leading the field in this acceleration of expenditure? For how long can government expenditure be increased annually at more than 10% when the gross national product is rising at 5% to 6% and productivity is increasing at only 3%. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Does the fact that a constant stream of literature is going into Victorian and New South Wales secondary schools seeking support for the Vietnam Moratorium indicate that the honourable member for Lalor and his cohorts are attempting to build up a breed of dissenters who will have no regard for law and order in Australia? 
As has been said, this debate revolves around changes in the legislation related to the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has told us that 3 major amendments are proposed in the Bill. These are supported not only by Government members but by members of the Opposition as well. I support the amendments, as I have supported the Export Payments Insurance Corporation since its inception in 1956. The first amendment relates to the extension of the activities of the Corporation so that it can carry out its work in New Guinea and other Territories of Australia with the same facility and efficiency as do other countries. I. am surprised that the original legislation and the amendments that have been made over the years have not included provision that insurance of goods exported from Australia to Papua and New Guinea should be on the same basis as Japan's arrangements for looking after its traders and manufacturers. I should think that the proposed amendments relate more particularly to requests by industry in Australia to make certain that they do trade in Papua and New Guinea on equal terms with Japanese manufacturers, German manufacturers and the like. I am pleased that the Minister has seen fit to plug this loophole. In fact, I was unaware that the tariff procedures available in the Territory gave no preference to Australian production whether for goods or for services. 
If we are to maintain our trusteeship over the Territory of Papua and New Guinea - and I see no reason why we should not do so for a good many years - then Australian private enterprise must be encouraged, coerced and exhorted to do more business in the Territory. I refer honourable members to an editorial in an engineering publication titled Australasian Manufacturer' dated 4th April 1970. The editorial mentions that representatives of the Australasian Manufacturer have talked to  Mr Ashton,  New Guinea's Minister for Works, and states: 
In an exclusive interview published in the national trade paper. 'Daily Commercial News',  Mr Ashton  said Australia's inefficiency and poor marketing techniques were losing the Territory's expanding market to West German and Japanese exporters. 
These are pretty high sounding words and I believe that not only the Minister and members on this side of the House but all Australians, and certainly all traders, should take notice of what  Mr Ashton  is reported to have said. The editorial continues: 
He said it was a catastrophe that Australia was spending so much in Government grants (SI 20m this year alone) to develop the area only to have foreign exporters grab the market. 
How true this is. The Australian taxpayer is subsidising the economy of Papua and New Guinea and Australian manufacturers and commercial houses should be operating in that area on equal terms with Japan, Germany and other countries. The editorial went on to state: 
In 1962-63 Australia supplied  5»fr  of all Papua and New Guinea's imports. Five years later this had dropped to 54.5%. Other major suppliers were the United States (13.7%) and Japan (!()%). There is little doubt that the Territory's 2.3 million people represent an attractive market, particularly in view of the enormous development now taking place, especially in mining. 
Honourable members who have been to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea would realise how fierce is the competition, particularly for what we call white goods - domestic appliances. One quick look at the shops at Rabaul, Lae and Port Moresby indicates that the Japanese are leaving no stone unturned to obtain the business available in the Territory. I find it difficult to believe thai 'he Australian Government has left it for so many years before ensuring that Australian commercial houses and manufacturers can operate on the same basis as Japanese exporters. Japanese and German products are well to the fore, particularly in Rabaul and Lae. As T said, those honourable members who have been to these ports find presented for sale Japanese transistor radios, tape recorders and the like. I believe that Australian manufacturers should have these business facilities put before them. 
I believe that EPIC should make certain that this change is brought to the notice of ali Australian manufacturers. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said, the stimulus to the economy in Papua and New Guinea resulting from the copper find at Bougainville, certainly will mean that capital goods will be required in ever increasing amounts. There have also been copper finds in the western part of Papua and New Guinea and millions of dollars will be spent by the company concerned. The spending power and standard of liv ng of the people in those areas will be reflected throughout the Territory. Australian manufacturers should have some advantage to ensure that they export to those areas. 
It is obvious from reading the second reading speech by the Minister for Trade and Industry that some part of industry in Australia approached him requesting that Australian industry be given the same level terms of export as are available to Japanese and German manufacturers. Australian companies believe that they can compete with the overseas manufacturers. I agree with that belief. But they must have the same facilities available to them as are available to manufacturers in other countries. This Bill fills a much needed want not only for Papua and New Guinea but also for those other territories in which we are interested, such as Christmas Island, Cocos Islands and Norfolk Island. I believe that we have some problems with Norfolk Island but they have little connection with this legislation. 
The other 2 considerable alterations to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act also call for approbation. EPIC must improve its position to cope with the demands of exporters. All honourable members on both sides of the Parliament have used the cliche that 'Australia must export to survive'. Therefore a facility such as EPIC should be increased in stature so that we can export more and more goods. For instance, most honourable members realise that Great Britain is making every effort to join the European Economic Community. Good assessments have been made which indicate that Australia could lose easily 12i% of its export income when Great Britain does enter the European Common Market. I ask the Government: What plans are we making to ensure that this 12i% of Australian exports is made up not only in Papua and New Guinea but elsewhere? Australia's standard of living must decrease considerably when this move by Great Britain and by the European Economic Community is accomplished. There could be prime trouble for Australia if this move is accomplished in a time of stress. This would decrease our standard of living. I ask the Government to look into the need to build up our exports by at least 12£% in the very near future, if it has not already done so. I sincerely trust it has. I was referring to other sections of the Act which are being altered. The figures show that the current liabilities of EPIC total SI 92m. Its ceiling for liabilities at the moment is a maximum of S200m. EPIC has practically reached its limit. Therefore the clause in this Bill which increases the limit from $200m to $300m is well worth while. 
The Minister's second reading speech appears at page 645 of Hansard. Because of what he said in the last part I want to make some comments about the origin of this legislation in 1956. The principal speakers in the debate in 1956 were the Minister for Trade and Industry, speaking for the Government side of the House, and  Mr Pollard,  then the honourable member for Lalor, speaking for the Opposition. In his second reading speech in 1956 the Minister explained that the purpose of the legislation was to promote Australia's export trade. He reiterated that purpose when introducing this Bill. He indicated that the Corporation would enable exporters to insure against certain risks which were not normally insured by business houses. Then, as now, this legislation filled a much needed want. I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that EPIC has done this with expertise and I offer my congratulations. As in 1956, commercial houses and exporters in Australia in 1970 must be in a position to compete with manufacturers from other countries. 
The report of EPIC is quite illuminating. Some sections were mentioned by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
The report for 1969 states, in part: 
Buyers in world trade have, over the last decade, been progressively successful in obtaining more favourable terms of payment for settlement of their purchases. The shift from cash payment to credit terms has gained momentum in both developed and developing countries alike. 
Later on it states: 
In consequence, there has been a marked expansion in the business growth and number of export credit insurance institutions throughout the world. When the Corporation commenced business in 1957 there were only 18 countries with such organisations- at 30th June 1969 there were 33 and others in the planning stage. 
It is quite evident that early in the piece the Australian Government saw that this type of corporation to insure Australia's exports was needed. As I have said, and as other honourable members have said, it fills a much needed want. The report went on to state: 
A further 133 policies were issued during the year resulting in a net gain of 54 after allowing for the expiry of specific type policies at the completion of insured transactions, and the nonrenewal of policies where export business did not eventuate as anticipated. 
The total number of policies current at 30th June 1969 was 740. In addition some six unconditional guarantees to banks as additional security for export finance were operative. 
So it is evident that the Corporation has been very active during its life of 14 years. It has covered a wide range of production from Australia. Looking at page 7 of the Corporation's report, I find, as did the honourable member for Melbourne Ports that 50% of insurable turnover is in 3 items alone - greasy wool $84. lm, processed wool $43.9m. and dairy produce $20.6m. All of the major items insured by the Corporation appear to come from the rural sector. I am wondering, as is the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  whether the Department of Trade and Industry cannot do more to ensure that manufacturers and other producers in Australia participate in EPIC to make certain that the goods exported are insured in a rational way. Incidentally, the total amount of turnover was $298. 8m. 
The fourth item on the list of insurable turnover is 'aluminium, zinc, steel, etc.'. This item amounts to $22.2m for this year. For the year ending 1968 it was $24.5m. In other words, there has been a drop in insurable turnover of this type of produc tion from Australia. I am wondering why this is so. When one looks down a list of 12 or 14 items insured by the Corporation, one sees there is a reduction in turnover in 1969 compared with the 1968 figures. There are one or two minor exceptions, but it does appear that rural production insurance is increasing and manufacturing or commercial production insurance is decreasing. I think that the Department of Trade and Industry in particular should have a look at this situation to see whether manufacturers and commercial houses are using EPIC to advantage or whether it is a facility that they really need. As I have said before, exporting is the life blood of the future of Australia. The Minister mentioned this in his second reading speech in 1956 and reiterated much the same comments in his speech in March this year. On the latter occasion he offered some criticism about what had happened in the 14 years since the Corporation was first founded. In other words, he indicated to the Parliament - this can be found at page 645 of Hansard of 19th March this year - that on the part of industry, and certainly on the part of Government members, there was a tremendous amount of antipathy to or disinterest in the initiation of this facility in 1956. In fact, he said this: 
The birth of EPIC was delayed many years - at least 4 - by the barrage of criticism and opposition raised against it from inside and outside government. Interests representing private institutions such as banks, insurance companies, associations, and elements even within the governmental structure, attacked, criticised and blocked the provision of this new facility by a Government corporation for at least 4 years. 
That is what the Minister said on 19th March of this year when he introduced the amendments to this legislation. I have had a look at the second reading speech and other speeches made in 1956 but I cannot find any evidence which would support what the Minister said this year. At page 1761 of Hansard of 3rd May 1956 the Minister is recorded as saying: 
In arriving at its decision to establish an export payments insurance arrangement, the Government has been influenced by the undoubted advantages such an arrangement will give to export It has also been impressed by the case for such an arrangement that has been placed before it by a wide spread of commercial and industry interests. Many countries abroad operate arrangements of this kind. 
Then the Minister went on to explain the reasons for the establishment of this Corporation. I find these words a good deal different from what he said on 19th March this year. In fact, in 1956, he went on to say, as reported at page 1761 of Hansard: 
For some time past the Government has received representations from Australian exporters and manufacturers who have claimed that export payments insurance would greatly help them in building up export trade. 
Before these proposals were finally adopted, however, all important points were discussed with representatives of exporters, manufacturers, primary producers, commodity marketing boards, and commercial, banking and insurance interests. 
I find the contradiction between the opinion expressed on 3rd May 1956 and that expressed on 3rd March 1970 indecipherable I just cannot understand it. So 1 went a little further and had a look at the remarks of some of the speakers on this side of the House and one or two of the speakers on the other side of the House in the 1956 debate. I found that the honourable member for Fawkner, who is now the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson),  in his opening remarks supported the legislation. He rose at 8.41 p.m. and said: 
I rise to support the Bill. Indeed,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I welcome it, because I believe that it is a really constructive measure which has been designed to encourage trade with other countries. 
The whole tenor of the honourable member's speech indicated that he supported the Bill. He was the first  speaker  from this side of the House to take part in the second reading debate. Another proponent of free enterprise in those days was the honourable member for Mitchell,  Mr Roy  Wheeler, whom many of us know. At page 2062 of Hansard of 15th May 1956 he is reported to have said: 
From the inquiries I have made I find that the type of risk to be covered under the Bill is normally not undertaken by private insurance companies. The Bill, therefore, seeks, I hope, to provide cover by the Government only of risks that would not normally be covered by private enterprise. 
So it seems that we agreed then, as we agree now, that this Corporation was a necessity for Australia. Therefore I find it difficult to understand the remark the Minister made in his second reading speech, that the facility was held up for 4 years, not only by Government members but also by insurance companies, banks, and general pressure from outside interests. At that time, as is the position now, Australia had a pressing balance of payments problem. Although the position is not so significant now so far as percentages are concerned, it is still a problem and will remain a problem for Australia. 
We are a small country in terms of population and yet we are one of the great trading nations of the world. We need to give all the help that we can to exporters, commercial houses, rural producers and others to ensure that our exports are maintained and perhaps increased. One way of increasing them, of course, is to produce competitively. I believe we are doing this, although we may be reaching the line ball stage so far as competition is concerned. In reviewing the Minister's speech - particularly the one he made this year - I see that he was flying a kite for his Australian Industry Development Corporation. He wanted to make certain that some of us, anyway, would not look back on EPIC when it was first instituted, because the evidence disproves what he said this year about EPIC. I am hoping that what he said about the Australian Industry Development Corporation will be disproved also. As I have said, I can find no evidence in Hansard. I have also looked at some newspaper cuttings. I found that because when EPIC was set up with a contingent liability of £25m or $50m the newspapers thought that Australia's exports would be increased by at least that amount each year. That contingent liability has been increased from $50m in 1956 to $200m today, and when this Bill is passed it will be increased to $300m. 
As I said, I was wondering whether the Minister's remarks had some relation to the Industry Development Corporation and I was wondering whether he was endeavouring to confuse me - and I am speaking for nobody else - about EPIC on the one hand and IDC on the other hand. The only contradiction to what I have already said about the speeches in 1956 is that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the then honourable member for Yarra, who is now the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  did say a few derogatory things about the introduction of EPIC in those days, but nothing to indicate that it should not be established. 
Their only criticism was that it was too timid and did not go far enough. In fact, the honourable member for Lalor wanted it to be a Socialist weapon, and he virtually said so in 1956. He said, as reported on page 2073 of Hansard of 15th May 1956: 
In comparison, the situation here is that the Australian legislation, brought down by a doctrinaire private enterprise government, does prevent the projected Australian corporation from entering into that field. 
He had referred in the previous paragraph to the democratic socialisation of corporations that existed throughout the world. He went on to say: 
This legislation provides for only very limited measures. 
So there was a little criticism. The only criticism was that it was too timid and that it was not the democratic socialism that the honourable member for Lalor would like. The Minister in his second reading speech was obviously referring to the Industry Development Corporation. As I see it from reading Hansard, the only support that he has had for his Industry Development Corporation is the very voluble support given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he was speaking in the debate on the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech. In fact, the Leader of the Opposition said that the facility 'should be specifically active in the area of resource development and the rationalisation of industry'. They are lovely words, but to a private enterprise operator they are very frightening. Rationalisation of industry is what the British Government has done and is continuing to do. I can say as a Liberal that I am very scared by what the Leader of the Opposition said. He rejoiced in the announcement in the Governor-General's Speech of the implementation of a facility to be known as the Australian Industry Development Corporation. I can only say that 1 have no such rejoicing thoughts. 
I have gone away from the tenor of the Bill, as did the Minister who introduced it into the House; but I say now that I support the Bill wholeheartedly. 1 believe that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation has done a worthwhile job for Australia. I would like to go so far as to say that its contingent liability could be increased from the $300m mentioned in the Bill, but no doubt the Minister, the Cabinet and the Corporation have decided on the $300m for the time being. 
This debate relates to a decision made recently by the Government to convert to the metric system of measurement of length, area and weight. It is called the Metric Conversion Bill 1970. It seems from what has been said already that there is no dissent by the Opposition from that decision. The Bill does but one thing; that is, it sets up a Metric Conversion Board. The Government hopes that the Board will set out as its object to ensure progressively that Australians use the metric system of measurement. 
I hope that the Metric Conversion Board that is established by the Government will operate in much the same way as the Decimal Currency Board operated. But it is possible, as has been said by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and other speakers, that the time factor could be important in this conversion to the metric system. Times of from 6 to 10 years have been mentioned. I hope that the Government will make certain that the Board speeds up the time factor because 6 years is a long time and 10 years is too long a time in which to carry out this conversion from the imperial system to the metric system. 
I hope, too, that the Minister will set up the Board immediately. In my view, the first thing the Board should do is establish target dates for the various sectors of industry - retailing, rural and so on - and ensure that those target dates are met by those sectors of industry. This would follow the practice adopted by the British Metrication Board. It allowed 10 years in which to operate the programme from its inception in 1967. The programme was initiated in that year and the British Board hoped to have it completed in full by 1977. 
I should say at this stage - I have said this before in this chamber for fairly obvious reasons - that I am a chartered engineer and I realise some of the problems connected with engineering in the conversion from the imperial system of measurement to the metric system. But at the same time my colleagues in the profession have felt for many years that this decision should have been made certainly 10 years ago or even before that. In other words, 1 am suggesting that Australia should have been one of the first, not one of the last, countries to convert to the metric system. As has been said by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  the British Government has made its decision and is practically half way through the conversion and the New Zealand Government has made its decision and hopes to convert very shortly. 
The effect on commerce and trade will be quite important to Australia. Therefore we should speed up this conversion as much as possible. It has also been said, but I repeat it, that 90% of the world's population now operate under the metric system. It is a simple system, and that is why these people use it as a measurement of length, area and weight. Also, 75% of the world's trade is carried out under the metric system. I can appreciate some of the problems that beset Australian exporters when they have to convert from the imperial system and make certain that their customers receive the right weight and the right measurement. 
One criticism that I will make of this decision refers to my belief that it should have been this chamber that initiated this decision. It was left to the Senate - the senior House of the Parliament - firstly to set up a select committee and secondly to propose, through that select committe's report that this conversion be made as soon as possible. 
I believe that we have been long enough in this House to have initiated the conversion and that we should not have left it to the Senate to show us the way. The Committee's report was a fulsome one. People from many sections of industry and commerce were interrogated. The Committee carried out wide investigations and submitted its report to Parliament in May 1968. The first part of the report indicated that a metric conversion board should be established. The board would cover diverse ramifications in industry, commerce, retailing and rural production. From what the Minister and other speakers have said it seems that too many years will elapse before the final conversion to metrication takes place. Industry should be advised now to start writing off equipment which is gauged on the imperial system so that very little compensation will be needed as the years go by. Taxation concessions and depreciation allowances should be made available. The people who will be affected should be advised as soon as possible so that they may ensure that their replacement equipment is gauged on the metric system and not on the imperial- system. 
I hope, too, that school curriculums are placing a great deal more emphasis today than even 2 or 3 years ago on teaching pupils how to use the metric system for measurements of length, area and weights. The children who will be adults in 10 years time should have more than a working knowledge of the metric system. The switch to metrication will offer Australia ample opportunities for technological advancement and economic advantages. I know a good deal more than most honourable members about the manufacturing industry and I am surprised that that industry in years gone by has not insisted that the Government do something about changing to the metric system. Before us are the experiences of many other countries in making the conversion, particularly the British attempt at conversion which was initiated in 1967 and is well on the way to completion. I sincerely trust that Australia has had observers in Britain to assess just how the British have made their conversion, the effects of it, and what criticism has been levelled at the Government on some of its aspects. The reports from such observers would be invaluable for our conversion efforts. 
We will need to have sound co-ordination and planning so that various industries and various sections of industry dovetail their conversion with other industries. We have very little information about the costs of the conversion. It has been assessed that it will cost more than the $50m that the decimal currency conversion cost, but this is purely speculative. It could cost a lot more; it could cost a lot less. At this stage the Bill endeavours to establish a metric conversion board. Although the Minister said in his second reading speech that there is no thought of compensation at this time and I would have expected that except in very special cases, where there is a high technological aspect and a small company is involved, very little compensation should be required. Industries should be given many years to write off their equipment and obtain the tax concessions that are available. A number of concessions are available for such things as obsolescence and depreciation of plant. As an engineer 1 can cite only one or two cases where easy conversion can take place. One is the lead screw on a lathe. It may be ordered in either the Imperial or metric standard. A quick changeover from the British standard to the metric standard can be effected with a lathe. Indicators or dials on equipment can easily be changed for weights and measures purposes. 
I hope that government departments will be pace setters for industry. In other words, government departments should now when ordering equipment for their use make certain that quick conversion can take place to the metric system. This is a simple matter to specify when ordering new equipment. I hope that all departments controlled by the Commonwealth, State and local government authorities will make sure that their specifications cover that aspect. This Bill is a step in the right direction and with other speakers in this debate I support it. 
I second the motion and reserve my right to speak on it later. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Because of the growing surplus of foreign exchange being accumulated by Japanese interests and their need to invest this surplus overseas, to what extent has the Government considered whether Japan will invest this surplus where it trades? Is the Government doing anything to make certain that our trade with Japan is not only continuous but also increased on a permanent basis by encouraging Japan to invest its surplus here? What safeguards if any would be needed to protect Australia's interests at the same time? 
I address a question to the Treasurer. To what extent is Australia supporting the Asian Development Bank? Are we responsible in any way for its activities? Is there any substance in the statement by  Mr Passman,  Congressman and  chairman  of a foreign relations subcommittee in America who said that the Asian Development Bank was the most mismanaged outfit he had ever had anything to do with? Those are his words. If we have real responsibilities with this Bank, and if it is mismanaged, what is Australia doing to rectify these problems? 
This debate relates to the decision of the Government to set up a facility to be known as the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Whilst 1 agree with the aims of the facility 1 cannot agree with the method being used by the Government to set up a government controlled facility in this way. I believe the work should be done by private enterprise. The Australian Resources Development Bank could have carried out the work that is considered to be the operation of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 1 have read the speech of the Minister concerned and I have read the Bill. 1 can only say that in  my  mind this is really a hazardous venture by a private enterprise government into the financial activities of the country. We have the controls we need through the Reserve Bank and through the Treasury to establish a proper setup for the stability of the country. We have done it in the past and we can do it in the future. As I have said already, hazardous as this Corporation will be- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)No point of order arises. 
1 feel that the venture is hazardous because I can see ultimately that the Board members of this Corporation will need to have advice given to them. The advice obviously must come from what I would call a national investment board; otherwise the Corporation would be unable to place its investment in a satisfactory way so far as the Corporation is concerned, and so far as the Parliament and the Government are concerned. I would say that the Corporation must have a national investment board because it must watch these trends that I have mentioned or, perhaps, this Corporation could easily be called a state holding company to promote new public enterprises. I refer honourable members to clause 7 of the Bill. This clause relates to the powers of the Corporation. Sub-clause (2.) (c) states that the Corporation has power:  to participate in the formation of a company; 
Obviously, this Corporation will be government controlled. Obviously clause 7 (2.) (c) will enable the Corporation to do exactly what I have said, that is, to invest in public companies and to make certain that the public companies are under the control of the Corporation. The Bill says very little of these matters. But if honourable members will look at clause 7 (2.), paragraphs (c), (d), (e),  (f),  they will see that these set out the points that really exercise my mind,  f  have already read paragraph (c). Paragraph (d) reads - states that the Corporation has power:  to subscribe for or otherwise acquire, and to dispose of, shares in. or debentures or other securities of, a company; 
Paragraph (e) provides that the Corporation has power:  to enter into a partnership  or'  an arrangement for sharing of profits;  and paragraph (f) states: .  to give guarantees; 
 
This is the normal activity of an ordinary company, but this one will be controlled by the Government. Another aspect that concerns me  -  I refer to the Bill and not to the Minister's second reading speech - is that of the first 9 pages of the printed copy of the Bill, 5 pages were devoted to the appointment and activities of directors. I find it difficult to believe that the Minister for Trade and Industry would have only 4 pages in the first 9 pages concerned with the activities of the company itself and 5 pages concerned with the activities of the directors of this Corporation. In total, the Bill has 12 pages, excluding the cover. Five of those pages are concerned with the appointment and the activities of directors. So, I say that the whole information is sketchy and certain not informative to this side of the House. 
This is a complex decision made by a Government and one, as I see it, which has not been supported either by the Bill itself or by the second reading speech delivered by the Minister on 5th March this year. It does have far reaching possibilities. The Opposition has encouraged the Government in the setting up of this facility because, as it has said, this facility will help it in its democratic Socialistic activities. In fact, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has supported this concept since 1967. Honourable members on both sides of the House will realise that this subject was discussed by Cabinet in those days. Since then, the Leader of the Opposition consistently has questioned the Government about when it was proposed to set up this Corporation. More recently, the Leader of the Opposition, in his Address-in-Reply speech, went into ecstasies concerning the possibility that this Government would set up the Corporation. He said finally: 
In short, under a Labor government, the IDC will be used for the democratic Socialist purposes 
I outlined in my policy speech 
To my mind, this was so true. As well, the words of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  indicated thai this Corporation will be used for these purposes. 
I say that, in this instance, we have taken from the policy of the Australian Labor Party - and this was outlined by the Leader of the Labor Party in his policy speech for the last election - this democratic Socialist weapon and we are paving the way for the Labor Party to implement its policies on democratic Socialism. I say that the second reading speech of the Minister was very abstract especially when I realise that private enterprise facilities are available to cover the worthy causes and the aims mentioned by the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
The Minister has not mentioned how the financial mechanism of the Australian Resources Development Bank has fallen down. In fact, the Minister admits that the Government has not discussed the possibilities with the private enterprise system. I believe that a good deal more research and analyses on this subject are needed because the decision made by the Government has really far reaching complications. I wonder why the Government has criticised the present set-up without talking to the Australian Resources Development Bank personnel. I believe that the Government should have discussed the problem that it has in mind with this private enterprise institution. I believe also that the Government should have explained the policy on its future and asked the consortium of banks which owns the Australian Resources Development Bank what it could do about the problem. 
I ask the Government why a panel has not been set up between Government Departments and private enterprise itself to sit around a table and make final decisions on this proposal, which, I have said has tremendously far reaching complications. I ask the Government why the Treasury apparently has not been involved in this decision. From my readings, I find that very little has been said by the Treasury regarding this subject; whereas we on this side of the House believe that the Treasury is one of the watchdog departments so far as the economic stability of the economy is concerned. Where are there statistics to justify this change of our philosophy? I have not been able to find them. But I have found that, in his second reading speech, the Minister - this was supported by the honourable member for Lalor - said that at least 15 Australian companies were being taken over annually by overseas investment companies or overseas parent companies. This, as I say, was supported by the honourable member for Lalor- 
... and now is supported apparently by the fellow from the Waterside Workers Federation. 

 Mr Bryant -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  call him to order. There is nothing wrong with the honourable member interjecting- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member for Wills will cease interjecting. Interjections are out of order. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  says that the internal borrowings will be controlled by the Reserve Bank. This is true. It is spelt out in the Bill. But when interest rates are so high overseas, as they are today - 12% is the normal amount to be paid for Euro dollars - the Corporation will wither on the vine unless some special dispensation is given to it to borrow in Australia. 
15361/70- R.- (901 
We heard the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  say yesterday that Qantas Airways Ltd was in trouble when endeavouring to borrow overseas, because it would have to pay the current rate of interest, which is 12%. We have heard criticism of the private enterise consortium because it has not borrowed overseas to a very great extent since 1968 until recently. I say that it has been very prudent in its activities, because the interest rates overseas since 1968 have been so high. This Corporation will wither on the vine unless and until some change is made regarding its borrowing within Australia. The word 'principally', of course, means that at least 50.5% or 51% should be borrowed overseas. That means that 49% could be borrowed in Australia and thus it will be competitive with the Australian Resources Development Bank and other lending institutions and boost up the interest rates in Australia, and people in Australia may have to pay higher interest rates because of the activities of this Corporation. I said yesterday that I could not support the initiation of this facility and I repeat that today. 
I address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. To what extent has the recent conference in Djakarta helped to close the ranks of the Asian people? Will they present a common front in future concerning their problems? ls it correct that already South Korea and Cambodia have' restored official relations between each other? Does the Minister envisage an extension of this form of co-operation? Is it the Minister's intention to make a statement regarding the recent conference held in Djakarta? 
 I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. It has been suggested by the new South Australian Premier that detailed planning for the Dartmouth Dam can and should proceed before the South Australian Government agrees to its construction. 1 ask whether or not it is our responsibility to protect taxpayers' funds or whether we are prepared to spend these large amounts before the Government of South Australia has ratified decisions previously made. 
My question is to the Minister for External Affairs. Is the report correct that the United States of America has sent nearly three times as much flood aid to Romania as Russia has? Has the Soviet Union tied strings to its help by demanding full military and economic cooperation as the price for flood damage assistance? What assistance does Australia propose for this unfortunate and devastated country? 
-! join in this valedictory to the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes simply because 1 liked him a lot, respected him a great deal, and loved the way in which he treated the back benchers on this side of the Parliament and, I feel, those on the Opposition side if they sought advice from him. As has been said, in his political views he was very much to the right of centre in some respects, but in other senses he was very much to the left because he had tremendous compassion for the aged, the frail and the infirm.  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes was always helpful in his attitude to those sections of our legislation that were designed to promote the welfare of people who had helped Australia but who were in need. 
He was, as has been said, a very highly intelligent man and he was a complex person in himself; but his personal needs and his own requirements were very few. He asked for very little for Billy Kent Hughes. As many honourable members well know, I was his jogging companion in Canberra. He never left one of those excursions around the lake without saying: 'Thank you, Ray'. I felt so humble on each occasion when 1 went around with him that a man of his greatness and of his ability should say Thank you' to me. But this is the type of man that  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes was. 
He was passionately devoted to Australia. This is one of the reasons why he carried out the crusades that he undertook in this Parliament. He was passionately fond of this land of bis birth and of his infant nurture. This gave him the strong political views that he had. Indeed, on the day before he died he had published in the Melbourne 'Herald' an article that symbolises  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, [t is not complex; it is straight to the point, lt is headed: Time for Us to Wake Up to the Red Threat'. There was no messing around with words. That is what Billy Kent Hughes felt and this is how he wrote. 
He was richly endowed with the personal qualities of life. As I have said, he was a highly intelligent man and he reached the attainments of a highly intelligent man. He talked to me less than 24 hours before he died and mentioned the excursion that he was about to take overseas and which has been mentioned by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell). Sir Wilfrid  was going to Rhodesia to join a centenary celebration of Rhodes scholars. He was to leave Melbourne on 12th August. No doubt, that celebration will be taking place this week, or perhaps it was held last week. He was to further his education, he said, on the way other people thought and felt on such matters as foreign affairs, defence and Che ability of Australia to help people in South East Asia, Africa and elsewhere. As the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr less)  has said, he was not a racist. He looked at the problems as he saw them. He looked at the compassion that was needed in these countries and the good sense 1hat we should try to convey to them if at all possible. 

 Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes was deeply imbued with a spirit of service not only to Australia but to all peoples of the world. As the honourable member for La Trobe has said,  Sir Wilfrid  was able to meet Ministers of State, heads of government and senior citizens and. at the same time, was able to talk to and meet with the children of this country and any country he visited. He was a great man and I too join with those who have extended their condolences to his wife. Lady Kent Hughes, and his family. 
I address a question to the Attorney-General. For how long will the Government tolerate attacks on administration leaders, the destruction of property, the shouting of obscenities in the streets and the involvement of innocent citizens before it enforces the law against damaging demonstrators who apparently feel that they are immune from the law of the land? Can the Attorney-General tell me- 
You help them; you organise it. Can the Attorney-General tell mc what steps can be taken to bring rationality into the situation as it now exists? 
We have a unique problem in Australia as far as this industry is concerned. The end products are admitted to this country duty free because we adhere to the decisions made by the United Nations. The materials used for manufacture in Australia are substantial and we have, as a protection for those materials, general and anti-dumping duties. 
Australian manufacturers in the bookbinding and printing industry have high labour costs. Sometimes these costs are as much as 8 times those which apply in Singapore and Hong Kong. Australian manufacturers have to bear a higher cost for their materials. Until September 1969 there was no protection at all. So this bounty of 25% does help the industry in a minor way. I have been told that Asian manufacturers can purchase their raw materials for  as much as 60% below the cost of materials in Australia. 1 have already said that the Asian wage varies between one-eighth and one-half of the wage in Australia. Many workers in Asian countries work up to 57 hours a week. In reply to the interjection about the need for good unions in those countries, let me say, having been there 3 or 4 weeks ago, that they believe they do have very good unions. They believe that workers should work a reasonable time for a reasonable wage. They believe that this sort of thing should apply in this country. However, it does not seem to have very much relation to what takes place in Australia. 
Because of the additional costs which I referred to earlier either the bookbinding industry will wither on the vine or the Government will have to do more and still more to assist it. The industry itself realises that it has a special problem and that other forms of assistance such as those which are being granted in America could be a great help to it. America, of course, is a high cost country. The costs of labour and materials in that country are higher than those in Australia. America has found a way to comply with the UNESCO Florence Agreement. It does not have tariff barriers against books; but it does have other methods of protecting its bookbinding industry. 
I have in my hand a booklet entitled Books Are Different'. I think the best way to demonstrate my point is to read the questions and answers as they are set out in the booklet. They read: 
Question: What other forms of assistance could be beneficial to the industry? 
Answer: A manufacturing clause arrangement similar to that which has applied for many years in the USA. 
The manufacturing clause of the USA Copyright Law states that to obtain copyright in the USA a book must be printed and bound 'from type set in the USA (i.e. from  a  process wholly performed in the USA)'. Certain concessions were made during the Universal Copyright convention in 19S4 and manufacturing restrictions were narrowed down to a single phrase that 'books in the English language, by American Authors or by French Authors resident or domiciled in the USA must be manufactured and printed from type set within the USA' for copyright . . . 
This mechanism has enabled the US book manufacturing industry to develop and prosper in a protected field whilst abiding by the UNESCO Florence Agreement requirements that no tariff barriers be erected against book imports. 
I think that this Government will have to consider following the action taken by the United States Government if we want the bookbinding industry in Australia to be maintained. I believe that we should ensure that text books purchased by State governments for use in their educational systems and text books prescribed or recommended by State Education Departments should be printed in Australia. I do not think any honourable member on either side of the House would contest that view. The booklet continues: 
A large proportion of primary and secondary school recommended text books have always been imported (e.g. in South Australia 29 out of 62 books prescribed for primary school are imported) although these books would provide a sound basis for a strong viable Australian book manufacturing industry. 
The position has worsened in NSW, Victoria and South Australia because some Australian text books, previously printed here, are now being printed in Asia. The list for the 1969 school year will include many more for which orders have been placed. Often these are reprints of text books originally manufactured in Australia but newly recommended text books are also being ordered from Asia. 
Although the book manufacturers are in agreement that the Government's policy in following the UNESCO ideal of not imposing tariffs on book imports they consider that the intention of such an international policy was to ensure that copies of a book which is written, published and manufactred in say, UK, for world consumption should enter Australia duty free, but that it was neither intended, nor is it in the spirit of the agreement, that this should be used to permit the sub-contracting of book manufacture out of Australia for re-entry duty free. Under these circumstances the book manufacturers consider that  a  tariff or restriction on such farming out' of manufacture would not conflict with Australia's policy of following the UNESCO Florence Agreement 
Some fringe assistance could be provided by an increased preference in the postage rates for books printed in Australia. There is precedent of very long standing for a preferential rate of postage for Australian manufactured books. Many years ago this was of considerable value to the book manufacturing industry but, although the postal preference still exists, its degree of effectiveness has lessened to a point of little direct value. 
In effect I make a plea on behalf of the book binding section of the printing industry, particularly in relation to multicolour books, that the Government have a further look at the problems facing this section of the industry. It certainly is true that the 25% bounty has helped the industry considerably, particularly in relation to black and white work. So far as multi-colour work is concerned - this is the  work that is of interest to the trained printing practitioners or the artisans - this is still being sent overseas for production for the reasons that 1 have mentioned. There are other reasons. The tremendous tariff protection that we give to Australian paper manufacturers makes it desirable for overseas people to buy their paper overseas, and they do so. They have a 60% advantage when they purchase their paper from overseas sources rather than in Australia. It is well known in the industry that Australian paper can be purchased in Hong Kong a good deal cheaper than it can be purchased in Australia. I believe that it is the responsibility of the Department of Trade and Industry and, to a lesser extent, the Department of Customs and Excise to have further investigations made into this problem because we will continue to put good Australians out of work if we maintain our present policies. I support the Bill, but I ask that the Ministers and departments concerned do a good deal more for this section of the industry than they have done in the past. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it correct that landing charges for international flights into and out of Australia are now 3i times the world average? If we are encouraging tourist trade, as are most countries, what is the reason for these high charges? Will the Government reassess the long term results of these charges and review their total impact on Australia? 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Balaclava respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14 th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  the  Speaker and Members of  the  House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the State of Victoria respectfully, showeth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species is now so low, that they may become extinct. 
There are insufficient wardens, in any Slate of the Commonwealth to delect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist.  As a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue lo this country. 
If is an indisputable fact thai no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. We, the petitioners, therefore humbly pray, that; 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlife in Australia brought under its control.  Only a complete cessation of killing tor commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. And your petitioners, therefore, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Whilst it is true that some insurance companies in America and Canada will not issue policies to users of marihuana and other hard addictive drug takers, is there any tendency in Australia to follow this trend? Would the insurance companies here have the authority to check physically applicants for insurance policies in order to assess whether  they  were users of drugs or not? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That because of uncontrolled shooting for commercial purposes, the population of kangaroos, particularly the big red species is now so low that they may become extinct 
There are insufficient wardens in any State of the Commonwealth to detect or apprehend those who break the inadequate laws which exist. 
 As a tourist attraction, the kangaroo is a permanent source of revenue to this country. 
 It is an indisputable fact that no species can withstand hunting on such a scale, when there is no provision being made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray, that: 
The export of kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Commonwealth Government take the necessary steps to have all wildlife in Australia brought under its control. 
Only a complete cessation of killing for commercial purposes can save surviving kangaroos. 
And your petitioners, therefore, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I propose also to say a few words about the Parliament itself and the committee system which has been mentioned by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  The cost of the Parliament is summarised in the document called: 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1971' and further details of the cost of Parliament can be found in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1970-71. The cost of Parliament can be found at page 6 of the latter document under Divisions 101, 102. 103, 104, 105, 108 and 109. 
The total cost of Parliament in the next 12 months is estimated to reach $3,753,000. This is really a small amo-nt when compared with the total Budget, ft is really a small amount when compared with the appropriations for many of the departments associated with the governing of this country. For instance, one case that I might mention is the Commonweath Department of Housing. Its appropriation for administrative expenses is $6,3 10,000. Frankly, as the honourable member for Balaclava, I fail to see why this Department is in operation at all unless, of course, it carries out the administration of the War Service  Homes  Division. The appropriation divisions I have mentioned cover all the parliamentary activities. For instance, Divisions 101 and 102 show that $ 1.609m of expenditure is proposed for the Senate and for the House of Representatives but more than 50 per cent of this total amount is for the administration of the Parliament. The point I am making is that of the $ 1.609m less than 50 per cent is for parliamentary salaries - that is, the salaries of senators and members of the House of Representatives. 
Division 103 covers the Parliamentary Reporting Staff, usually known by us as Hansard. This will cost $770,000 this year or $42,000 more in a year than the salaries paid to members of Parliament. I am one, as most of us are, who gives credit to the officers of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff because, without their help and their dedicated service, many of the words that are spoken by members of Parliament would not make the sense that we would want them to make. Therefore we all appreciate the work that .Hansard does. These remarks apply also to the Parliamentary Library because here again we rely on the dedication and expertise of the staff. This section comes under Division 104. Its activities have been extended in the last few years, much to the benefit of the Parliament itself and certainly to members. 
However, as the honourable member for Adelaide said, over recent years more particularly and certainly in this session of the Parliament a great deal has been said about the committee system, the need for the expansion of it and the like. Of course, this system has been augmented by a recent decision taken in the Senate, where the numbers are now equal in some respects because the Opposition and the Democratic Labor Party find that by combining they can outvote the Government. Honourable senators think there has been an increase in the need for additional committees and they now feel that there should be an additional 8 standing committees. In 1969-70 7 select committees were operative in the Senate. If one has a look at the composition of the committees one finds that there are many senators serving on 2 or more of these select committees. To my mind it seems improper and almost impossible to expect a senator to devote his full energies to committees of this type and give full value in services rendered. 
The same would apply, I feel, to the object outlined by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  if we were to establish standing committees in this House. I realise that standing committees are stood by. In other words, they are laid aside until the Parliament decides that these committees are required to do some work. Here I find that whenever a select committee is set up by this House or by the Senate, or as a combination of both, numbers matter. The point I am trying to make is that whenever the Government parties decide that there should or should not be a select committee they will decide in any case. In fact, in this House we have the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise which was set up last year or perhaps the year before. We also have the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation which was set up during this session. Last week we were given notice that an additional select committee had been set up. This was the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. It is my view that the Parliament should control this sort of activity. In other words, it should not set up standing committees of the form mentioned by the honourable member for Wills but should have select committees of the type operated by this Parliament over the years. 
Whenever we talk about committees we should think in terms of at least 10 members of this chamber for each of the committees. So far as the Senate is concerned, if we take 10 members of that chamber for each of 7 standing committees we find that there are not sufficient senators to cater for those committees. I think the honourable member for Adelaide put bis finger on the pulse of the problem in the last few sentences of his speech when he said that there is not enough room or enough convenience in this building to cater for all of these select and standing committees. In fact, I know that the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation has held some of its deliberations in the Tariff Board building which is not far from here. The reason is obvious. It is more convenient and more satisfactory. It has the facilities for taking evidence and for the interrogation of witnesses by members of the Committee. They can obtain sufficient information and go about their deliberations in a proper way. 
Having been a member of the Public Accounts Committee during the life of 2 parliaments, and presently being a member of the Public Works Committee, I find it impossible to feel very happy about the addition of new committees to this system of Parliament. First of all, I make the point raised by the honourable member for Adelaide, that is, that sufficient facilities, sufficient room and sufficient services are not given to committees. We already have the Public Accounts Committee, the Public Works Committee and the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has several sub-committees. These committees find it difficult to be properly serviced by the staff that we have. I believe that the honourable member for Adelaide should have gone further and said that not only do we need a new Parliament House in Canberra but we also need a lot more members to service these additional committees that people are talking about. 
There is another point which is often mentioned - it was certainly mentioned by the honourable member for Wills - and that is that joint committees particularly depolarise the members of Parliament and in turn depolarise the electorate. I am not one who feels that the point at issue should be depolarised. I think they should be polarised. In other words, the people and particularly the news media should know on which side members of the Government stand and on which side members of the Opposition stand. The matter of dissent, the matter of the Moratorium and the matter of law . and order are all matters that should be polarised so that the people - the constituents - know just where the Government stands and just where the Opposition stands. 
Already we have read reports from America on this system of committee use so far as their parliamentary government is concerned and many of us know that Democrats and Republicans vote on the same side of the House on given problems. The reasons are obvious. The news media and the Press particularly pressurise these members to vote in the way they do. In other words, we finish up, if we continued a system of committee government, much the same as the French finished up before de Gaulle took over, and that is as a group of independents without any proper allegiance to a party at all. I believe the Australian Labor Party is right in having allegiance and loyalty from its members. I agree with Edmund Burke, a great statesman of the traditional English parliamentary system many hundreds of years ago. He said that a member of a party should be able to follow that party 85 per cent of the way, that if a government and a party make a decision the member of the party should be able to follow that decision in 85 out of 100 cases. Bui if members find regularly that they are unable to follow the decisions of the government - when I say 'government' 1 mean Cabinet - then they should either resign from the party or resign from the Parliament. 
There are many things that many of us should take note of in this Parliament. I have talked about the polarisation of problems, about government and about the Executive. Last time I spoke on this subject I said something which I appreciate and which I think bears repetition. 1 said that the Parliament is not a governing or policy making body. In other words, we are not a policy making or governing body at all, these rights being invested in the executive government - that is Cabinet - which, of course, must have the support and confidence of a: majority of mem b- rs of the Parliament. This in fact means the support of the majority of members of the lower House. I do not see any reason for changing the thoughts I had last year. Until and unless all of us believe that the Government is the Cabinet and that the party that governs is the party that has the greatest number of supporters then this talk about committees, standing committees and select committees is so much kibosh, if I may use a colloquialism. Of course, the public, the Press and all of us have a great interest in the committee system. A tremendous amount of good can come from additional committees of this House, but until we get a larger parliament house or building which can accommodate an additional committee system 1 will vote against it and talk against it. 
It is customary during the debate on the Treasury estimates for me to say some words about the burden of taxation on the private individual, and tonight is no exception. Tonight I hope to take the matter a little further and give some of the reasons for the imposition of tax not only on individuals but on companies as well. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  spoke a short time ago and pointed out quite succinctly that if the Government, the Opposition and members of this Parliament attune themselves to the demands of sections of the people and desire to spend more money, taxation must be increased, because that money is not made on the printing presses - it is given by the people in the form of taxation, from personal exertion, from sales tax, from company tax, and from customs and excise duty. 
I appreciate what the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said in his Budget Speech, because there has been some alleviation of personal exertion income tax. In fact I was surprised, after having listened to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  last October when he said in his policy speech that some alleviation would be given to personal exertion income tax to the extent of $200m over the next 3 years, to find in the Budget that the alleviation is not S66m a year but a total of $289m in a full year. Therefore I am pleased to say that some of the pressures brought to bear by some honourable members on this side of the House have borne fruit. However, what the Treasurer did not say was that by effluxion of time, the impact of additional people joining the work force and higher wages to those already employed meant that the Government could have expected an additional $575m this year if there had been no change in the form of the income tax. 
All of the Budget papers have some reference to the Treasury because it is the Treasury's job to carry out the policy decisions of the Government. Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) have a great deal of reference to what the Treasury has to do in this 12-month period. The document entitled 'Payments to or for the States' also has a great deal of reference to the expenditure of money and the manner in which it is expended. Looking at the first page only of the Budget Speech, I was impressed when he said that the Budget was framed to provide large increases on essential expenditures. This matter was referred to by the honour able member for Curtin. The Government has decided, as a matter of policy, to increase what is called essential expenditure. 
For the purpose of this exercise I looked particularly at 4 items. The first was payments to or for the States, the second was welfare, the third was development and the fourth was assistance to industry and so on. As I said, it is the Treasury which administers these funds in accordance with Government policy. Therefore I thought it would be a good exercise on my part to understand why taxes on individuals and companies, as well as sales tax, were so high; why these increases were imposed in those various sections; why there is an excise on wine and the like; and why sales and company taxes were increased in this Budget. 
If we consider payments to or for the States we find that this year the overall increase over last year is something like 12 per cent. In money terms this means an additional payment to or for the States of $291,494,000. This money is extracted from the revenue provided by the Australian people and is to be expended by the States. In money terms the greatest increase in this sector was for general revenue payments to the States. In other words it is to be used to supplement State budgets. At least 50 per cent of the $29 lm increase, namely $145,561,000, has been set aside to supplement State budgets. My mind boggled when I studied this document further and realised where this assistance is to go and the way in which the Commonwealth imposes its thoughts on areas normally considered matters for State governments. I refer the Committee to the document 'Commonwealth payments to or for the States', page 114, table 65, where it is shown that certain amounts are set aside for deserted wives, blood transfusion services, the disposal of ships' garbage and hundreds of like items which are set out individually in the Budget papers. As I said, my mind boggles at the affairs of State governments which are directed or controlled by the Commonwealth Government. Frankly I believe that States need this assistance. So far as payments to the States are concerned, over the years the States have found it difficult to meet their needs. They have been faced with increased populations and the additional services required have not been met by way of additional moneys from the Commonwealth. However, I find it difficult to understand why the Commonwealth intrudes into these minute areas such as blood transfusion services. I believe that all these things are State responsibilities. 
In money terms the second highest increase is for works and housing. The total involved here is $65m which is a 12 per cent increase over the 1969-70 Budget. This revenue is used by the States for capital works where debt charges are not recovered, such as in the case of schools and police buildings. The amount this financial year is $823m more than was allocated in 1969-70. In this total amount of $823m is an amount of $200m which is an interest free grant to the States. I am very pleased to see that the States have been able to induce the Com.monwalth Government to grant this amount interest free, because it is State debts which have caused many of their problems in the past. So far as I can understand from the Budget Papers the interest free grant this year of $200m will mean a saving of $150m to the States over the next 5 years. I am pleased to see that the Commonwealth Government, through discussions on Commonwealth and State relations, has been able to make this decision. 
The next section worthy of mention is that of welfare. Of course, many honourable members on this side of the Committee and on the other side have a great deal to say about the national welfare section of the Budget Papers. This year the increase in the welfare field is an additional $131m over the figures of 1969-70. The largest part of this increase in money terms is $65.3 18m which is the additional amount set aside for age and invalid pensions. We all know that there has been a change in the health scheme of the nation. The medical benefit assessment has been increased by $40.667m this year; hospital benefits are up by $6.6m; and pharmaceutical benefits are up by $ 13.5m. This only confirms what the honourable member for Curtin has said, that whenever and if the Government decides that more money is to be spent in certain sections, increases in Budget expenditure must result and this money must come from the people of this great country of ours. So, in the 2 areas that I have mentioned - Commonwealth payments to or for the States and the welfare section - there has been a grand total of increase of expenditure over the last year of $422m. 
The third area that I wish to talk about - I will not have time to deal with the 4 matters I want to mention - concerns assistance to industry where increases this year in terms of percentage over the last financial year amount to 42 per cent. Splitting these increases into various sections of industry, we find that the rural industry has an increased allocation of $77.265m or an increase of 50 per cent over the figures of 1969-70 and the manufacturing industry has increased by 17 per cent which in money terms is represented by $5.651m. The assistance given to the mining industry, which is the most satisfactory industry so far as costs and profits are concerned, shows a decrease of 13 per cent. I find it very difficult to understand from a business point of view that assistance to a section of industry so active as the mining industry has been reduced. We find in the mining industry that there are tremendous shortages of labour. All sections of the Parliament realise that one of our prime purposes is to ensure that labour is employed in this country. Yet the mining industry, in which wages are so high and where there is plenty of overtime and plenty of good work for men who are willing to work, is one of the few industries in this country which can compete with overseas industries on an export basis. The mining industry shortly will be the greatest component in exports - it will be a higher component than primary industry. I feel we are frittering away the amount that can be obtained from those industries that are successful in an endeavour to aid other industries that are not so successful. I feel for primary industry and for those in the manufacturing sector which are finding difficulties. At the same time I think more has to be done to ensure that we balance the budget so far as Australia is concerned. Otherwise we will be producing goods that are virtually impossible to sell, as is almost the situation now. What we are doing is contrary to good business practice and all of my training has been that if you are on a good thing stick to it. 
Looking at the primary industry section we find that the allocation is up by 50 per cent. A sum of $30.5m is set aside for the wheat industry stabilisation fund. We have made certain that $300m will be made available to ensure that the Australian Wheat Board can pay for the wheat crops that were produced this year and will be -produced in the future. I am not negativing what the Government has done but I am saying that we should have a good look at the procedures and policies that have been adopted to ensure that the hard working city worker and the people in the middle income group get some benefit from these tremendous amounts that are being spent by the Government. Wool growers, of course, are in real trouble and $30m has been set aside this year for their benefit. 1 do not have any doubt that there is a great need to help wool growers this year but I would hate to see this amount increased next year and carried on ad infinitum. The butter and cheese bounty is up by $14. 5m and this represents an increase over last year of 54 per cent. Also, the processed milk bounty is up by 560 per cent which is not a bad increase in 1 year although the total amount of money involved is quite small. We have also set aside $25m for the stabilisation of the dairy industry. These are the things that I think all sections of the Parliament and Government members in particular will need to have a good look at in future years. 1 believe that those sections of industry that are profitable and those sections of industry that can and will continue to employ labour are those sections which the Government should be looking at for the future of Australia and for the benefit of all Australians. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I preface the question by saying that I have noticed recently that claims by unions on individual plants contain a demand for 4 weeks annual leave. Is it a fact that there is a pattern in the past that when a claim such as this is granted by an individual plant, it tends to be forced on other plants by strike action? So that the community may judge the value of 4 weeks annual leave can the Minister inform the House what would be the increased national wages bill which would be required to pay for demands of this kind? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether we now have 2 oppositions so far as government administration  and legislation are concerned - the one section of the Labor Party which believes in parliamentary government, and the other section of the Labor Party which uses the streets and pressure groups to further its ends and which now has a private police and marshalling force or its own. 
-- Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that, although the Book Bounty Bill has been partially effective only, colour work for Australia is still produced in South East Asian countries in large quantities for Australia? Will he consider introducing a Bill similar to that of the United States of America where the copyright law states that to obtain copyright in the United States a book must be printed and bound from type set in the United States, that is, from a process wholly performed in the United States of America? I understand that that requirement conforms to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation Florence Agreement which is related to this subject? 
I. direct a question to the Prime Minister. To what extent has the Canadian Prime Minister been in touch with him regarding the Canadian proposal to admit Communist China to the United Nations? Has Communist China applied for admission to the United Nations? If so, has it given guarantees that its future policies will not be exploited through the barrel of a gun? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has followed up my question to him on 19th August last, in which I asked how long we would tolerate attacks on administration leaders and the destruction of property by lawless demonstrators. Can he tell me whether his investigations are complete? Will he inform the House of the results of these investigations? 
1 ask the PostmasterGeneral whether a new shift arrangement has been finalised between the Public Service Board and the various unions connected with the Postmaster-General's Department, which will mean a 5-day working week. How will this arrangement affect the service to the public who pay for this Commonwealth Department but who appear to be getting the thin edge of the deal? 
I .direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Is it correct that world . prices of oil will increase considerably during 1971? How is Australia affected by the international agreements signed in Teheran recently? Will motor fuel prices -in Australia be increased as a result? In- terms of dollars, to what extent have Australia's crude oil finds reduced the need to -import this commodity? 
I ask the Treasurer whether the Australian Industries Development Corporation will take part in the reformation of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd in order to bail out a private company which is in financial difficulties? If so, where will it obtain the capital for this venture? For this purpose will it use the Commonwealth's Consolidated Revenue Fund which is the taxpayers' money? 
I ask the Treasurer whether he knows that the Japanese Minister for International Trade and Industry - that is, MITI - will come to Australia in April and, as well, a large delegation of Japanese calling itself the Australian Economy Research Mission will come here in March. Is this the first step towards economic co-existence with Japan, and will the next stage be for Japanese to obtain the right of investment and establishment in Australia? 
I address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Because of the differences in reporting in various newspapers throughout Australia I ask the Minister whether he used the phrase: 'Britain's security was no longer vital to Australia' when he was speaking at the Pleasant Sunday Afternoon at the Wesley Church in Melbourne yesterday. If he did use the words quoted, what was meant by them? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker,- 

I present the following petition: 
To the honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled. The humble petition of the undersigned residents of the Division of Balaclava respectfully showeth: 
That many tons of unsolicited advertising matter delivered to householders that is required to be burnt in Australia each year creates air pollution; 
That such literature placed in fences litters streets which is hardly in accordance with the Don't Rubbish Australia' theme; 
That further nuisance in caused for postmen and paper delivery boys by choking letter boxes and paper holders; and 
That with the mediums of newspapers, radio and commercial television stations available, it is considered undesirable to weary the public with this additional advertising outlet. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that legislation be introduced to prevent the distribution of unsolicited advertising matter to householders. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise as the Minister responsible for administering the crude oil arrangements in Australia. I ask him to what extent world prices of oil will be increased in 1971. How is Australia affected by the international oil agreement signed in Teheran recently and the pressures by Indonesia to have prices of crude oil from its sources of production increased? Will motor fuel prices in Australia be increased as a result of these operations? 
 I present the following petition: 
To the honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the residents of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our national emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a  concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: The export of all kangaroo products be banned immediately and the Commonwealth Government make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the kangaroo. 
And, your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether the newly formed Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has been active in obtaining consultant work or construction contracts either within Australia or overseas? Will the Minister outline the results, if any, of these activities and confirm what success has resulted from the Government's decision to form the Corporation? 
Does the Treasurer know that interest rates overseas have fallen dramatically in recent months and that the prime rate today in America is  5i  per cent? Is it not time that we had a good look at interest rates in Australia and made certain that we are not out of step with international economies? Are we tending to encourage some overseas capital only because our interest rates are too high? 
Does the Treasurer realise that the cancellation of the plant investment allowance for manufacturing and mining industries is seriously threatening the ability of some companies to produce and export competitively? Has the Government seriously weighed the effects of the cancellation of this allowance or can it be reintroduced to assist at least those companies which export? 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask the Minister whether the rolling strikes by tug crews on the waterfront in Melbourne are likely to cause the diversion of giant container ships to other ports. Are these strikes, of which there have been 8 since 12th March last, causing great damage to producers, exporters, carriers and consumers? Why cannot the waterfront workers realise the tremendous inflationary results of their actions? 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development. In view of our new dependence on exports from mining and metals industries, to what extent have exports of minerals increased in recent years? Because of the industry's importance I ask how exploration activity has also increased in recent years and to what extent the Government is assisting this exploration. 
I address a further question to the Minister for National Development. I ask whether he has any information regarding infrastructure costs associated with mining development in Australia. Is the assertion correct that Australian interests have been unable to take up to the full extent the equity offered to them because of these development costs which on average represent more than 60 per cent of total investment? 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether stewards are necessary on Australian National Line ships. Why are these striking stewards able to hold Tasmania to ransom and cause unemployment there and hardship to Tasmanian families? How many weeks each year do stewards have off or, more particularly, how many weeks do they work each year? 
I should have thought that all honourable members of this House would have agreed with the decision of the Government which has been announced by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to suspend or defer the construction of a nuclear power station at Jervis Bay. I thought at least the Opposition would have agreed to this suspension because, as the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  said, he introduced an amendment proposing similar action during the Estimates debate last year. Incidentally, that amendment was defeated. Now, a similar amendment has been brought before the House. 
I have just seen the amendment. In the first part, it states that the select committee which the honourable member wants to have established should look at the projected power needs of the Commonwealth. Here again we see the Opposition with its centralist policies endeavouring to take over the activities of the State governments. I should have thought that the State governments had a lot more information than any select committee could ever assess in 12 months or 2 years. The States have had the technical capacity to run their power stations for many years. I can just imagine what  Sir Henry  Bolte, the Premier of Victoria, would say if a select committee went down there questioning senior members of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. I can understand what  Mr Askin,  the Premier of New South Wales, would say if a Commonwealth select committee was to take his electricity authorities apart and ask questions about the known needs for power in future years. They have the answers. They can supply the information to the Government and, no doubt, to the honourable member for Lang if he writes them a letter. That is all he has to do. There would be no need to set up a select committee - possibly a costly committee - which would run around the country worrying these very busy people and trying to obtain answers to its questions. 
The second part of the amendment refers to the comparative advantage or otherwise of thermal power stations or hydro-electric power stations against nuclear power stations. I think that this information is well known because the honourable member for Lang, as have other honourable members, has had a look at the newspaper cuttings on this subject and the newspaper assessments, no doubt taken from people from Lucas Heights and elsewhere, indicate that the power station, had it been set up at Jervis Bay would have cost the taxpayer, not in capital costs but in subsidies at least $6m a year to compete with the coal operated electricity power stations. Obviously, this is a factor that the Government has taken into account in deciding to defer the recommendation that this nuclear plant be purchased and set up at Jervis Bay. With respect to the costs for the plant itself, the Government had in mind - again, I take this from the newspapers and not from leaks from Cabinet - that the original rough estimate to establish this SOO megawatt nuclear power station was approximately Si 30m. Of course, the tenderers have cleared the minds of the Government and the Minister for National Development because the final tender - the one that apparently looked best to the Government - was to have cost approximately $250m. This is almost double what was originally intended to be spent on the power station. With the economic conditions and the inflationary trend which exist in Australia today, I believe that the Government is wisely and capably looking after the future of capital expenditure in Australia. 1 have always said during Budget sessions and Estimates debates that in recent years, governments have been spending too much money on capital works and that with a population of 12 million, it is impossible to make certain that these capital works will not cause this inflationary trend that is with us today. The Government, of course, has taken an active part in recent months in endeavouring to stem this inflationary trend and I say caustically that it is about time. In recent weeks - in fact, in recent days - we have seen a statement made by  President  Nixon that he is to introduce a super-surcharge or a 10 per cent surcharge on imports into the United States of America. I am sure that Cabinet has not given full consideration to the effects this will have on Australia - to the effects on our exports not only to Japan, but also to America. I warn honourable members on both sides of the House that the decision by  President  Nixon will have a remarkable effect on what we are doing in Australia, I would hope that the Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  Mr Hawke  in particular would have a committee set up to assess the impact of  President  Nixon's recent statement because people will be out of work as a result of that statement. People will be put out of work in Australia because our best market - Japan - will be reduced as a result of this decision. It will take many months - probably 18 months or 2 years - before the full effect has been felt by Japan and, in turn, Australia. 
So far as I am concerned, I would say that the Budget was very deflationary. I very much appreciated what the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said about the cost to this country of strikes and about people not carrying out the work that they are intended to carry out. 1 know that the ACTU supports those militant Labor unions which have decided not to work on a pipeline being constructed across Port Phillip Bay in Victoria. Here is a State government constitutionally set up, elected by the people, which makes a decision to construct a pipeline from Westernport to Altona in Victoria across Port Phillip Bay. The unions say: 'We will not take part in the construction of this pipeline'. I know what I would do if I was the Premier of Victoria. I would hire labour from overseas. I have recently returned from countries where good labour is available to carry out the decisions of a State government which have been rejected by the Opposition party and by those militant unions in Victoria. I think it is about time the Australian Labor Party, particularly the members of the Opposition, made a decision about upholding law and order and decisions by governments constitutionally elected through the ballot boxes in the normal way of ordinary democracies. People are fed up with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  inciting young people not to go to the Vietnam war; to sign their ballot papers and then to write a letter saying that if ordered to Vietnam they would refuse to go. People are fed up with the statements by the Leader of the Opposition to the effect that if he was a soldier in Vietnam and he did not like the war there he would write to his commanding officer and say: 'I will not participate in this war'. People are fed up with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition saying: 'Yes, there was amunity by 200 naval- 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. What is the Government doing about the militant trade unions which obviously are determined to destroy the arbitration system? Will the Government resist the Socialist left and militant unions in order to support those unions which  appreciate the conciliation and arbitration on which a large number of workers depend? 
I address a question to the Treasurer which is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Sydney. Will the Government ensure that in the present world financial crisis Australia follows the strengthening British pound' and that it does not follow deflationary currencies? What is the level of our international reserves? Are they at a record peak, thus negativing the pressures to devalue? 
-I address a question to the PostmasterGeneral. Why has the Government increased postal charges to such an extent in recent years? Is this additional revenue used for capital and maintenance works or is it used only to cover additional labour costs? 
I address a question to the Minister for National Development. Now that the Premier of South Australia has conceded at last that the Dartmouth Dam can proceed, what additional costs are involved because of this delay? If there is a 10 per cent variation in costs from the original estimates, will the Commonwealth Government exercise its right to renegotiate the agreement? Will the extra amounts, if any, be charged to South Australia? 
When we rise to take part in the Budget debate, of course, we are referring more particularly to the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  introduced the Budget and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has introduced an amendment to the Budget. I reject this amendment out of hand, as I am sure the Government will do when a vote is taken on it. During the contributions which have been made to this debate, much has been said about inflation. Honourable members on both sides of the chamber realise that inflation is a tremendous burden upon the economy of Australia. However, little has been said about the causes of this inflation or about the possible remedies to cure it. I ask the question: Do we really want to control inflation, or are we tempering with the subject which is. and will continue to be, of paramount importance to all Australians this year, next year and until such time as the Government introduces measures to control this inflationary spiral? 
The 'American Economic Record' stated this about inflation: 
Inflation adds worthless dollars to the money supply. It is like adding water to milk, and so dilutes the value of all earned money, it reduces pensions, insurances and superannuations. 
This is the problem that besets Australia today, and when I hear honourable members opposite talking about the workers, I wonder whom they mean, because the Leader of the Opposition said that 90 per cent of the people of Australia were wage or salary earners. In his own words he said that they were workers. So we are talking about the bulk of the people in Australia when we say that this inflationary trend will have some impact on all the people in Australia. To my mind inflation is a hidden tax. I believe it to be an immoral substitute for honest taxation. Obviously, as most honourable members on both sides of this House have said, it is a cruel burden on those trying to live on fixed incomes, the pensioners, those in receipt of superannuation benefits and the like. Inflation's insidious weapon, however, is habit forming. It could be called a habit forming drug known as SFN - something for nothing. Perhaps it is not as bad as LSD which is being used by some people throughout the world but SFN is a drug - something for nothing - that has permeated the whole of the Australian society. 
Indeed, all people are getting more dollars but they are not producing any more goods or doing any more work for these additional dollars. They feel better and they feel happier because they are getting more dollars in their pay packets each week. The habit is progressive. We want more dollars, wage rise, prices rise and our incomes keep rising. While the drug supply - the SFN supply is maintained, the economy remains nervously happy as do the people who receive the additional money. However, there will come the time - and we are rapidly reaching that point in Australia - when the money supply will be far ahead of productivity - of our gross national product. These things can be measured. I heard the honourable member for Maribyrnong  Dr Cass)  talk about the cost of living. It is a simple matter to get this information from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. That organisation will supply information regarding the percentage increase in the consumer price index or the cost of living and relate it to the average weekly earnings of a male or female worker. 
As I said, when the money supply gets far ahead of prodouction prices become higher and higher. Ultimately the customer will not pay these inflated prices because of the high costs involved. This applies particularly to overseas customers because they have alternative sources of supply. We have seen in Australia our once great rural industries staggering under the impact of high costs and higher prices. This is so evident that this Government in the Budget has added to the subsidies which we give to these once great rural industries. When the price of goods becomes so high that the customer cannot afford to pay, business tumbles and payrolls shrink. 
Some honourable members have said that we on this side of the House are endeavouring to create a pool of unemeployed This is quite erronous because during the economic pressures in I960, 1961 and 1962 we went to the polls. We on this side know that a pool of unemployed is not a good thing for Australia and without doubt it is not a good thing for any other country. This drug SFN ultimately must cause withdrawal pains; that is the pain of deflating the economy to make certain that the customers will pay the prices for the goods that are available to them or else they will buy from alternative sources. We on this side have seen this sort of thing happening in other countries. We have seen what has occurred in the United Kingdom when a Labour Prime Minister had to deflate the economy because of the execssive demands by wage earners, who represent 90 per cent of the people, for increased wages and better conditions. We have seen this happen in European countries, in France and in the United States of America. 
What is the unemployment situation in the United Kingdom today? The latest figures I have been able to get shaw that there are 904,000 people unemployed in the United Kingdom, representing 3.7 per cent of the work force, simply because they have priced themselves out of their regular markets. In the United States a Similar situation exists except that the reasons are different as to why there has been and will continue to be inflation in America. There are 5.5 million people or 6.5 per cent, of the work force unemployed. The number of unemployed in America is almost half the population of Australia. In Canada 529,000 people or 6.2 per cent of the work force are unemployed. What is happening in the United Kingdom and America is that the people are able to buy goods cheaper from the low cost producing countries. We have all talked about the importance of Japan in the business community in recent years. The reason obviously is that Japan is still a producer of low priced goods and can sell her goods to America, England and European countries cheaper than they can produce them. 
It is all very well to say that wages must continually be increased. I do nol mind if a man gets $1,000 a week as long as there is someone who will pay the price of the finished commodity. But the time is rapidly approaching in Australia - we have seen it with our once great rural industries - when overseas countries will not be prepared to pay these high prices for our high cost products.  President  Nixon has taken the first step in America towards a withdrawal from the drug SFN. He has decided to impose a 10 per cent surcharge on importations. A quick look at American imports, which are not high in terms of the gross national product of that country, shows that most of its imports come from Japan because, as I have already said, Japan is a lower cost producer than America is at this time. Where does Japan obtain most of her raw materials for the goods which it sends to America and other parts of the world? We know because we are the lucky country which has the indigenous materials such as iron ore, bauxite, nickel, copper, oil and gas. We will be affected not so much by the results to be obtained from this Budget as we will by the decision of  President  Nixon and the American people to withdraw from the tremendous inflationary trend that has beset that country and which is also now besetting Australia. 
It is true that we learnt the lesson in 1961 and 1962 that an unemployment pool did have some effect on damping down the economy of a country. We have watched the events in England, the United States and France and we realise that they still have unemployment. I have already given the figures in relation to this. These countries still have wage push inflation; that is, those people who are still in employment, through their union bosses, decide that they must get more and more money, having little regard for the end result as to the cost of the commodity and having no regard for the fact that ultimately the goods produced will not be saleable anywhere and certainly will not be saleable overseas. In other words, I believe that union bosses have a responsibility and I am saying that they should have, as a government must have, some responsibility for those people who are out of work, those who are in receipt of pensions, the aged, the maimed, the sick and so on. 
I therefore reject the concept that collective bargaining is the answer to the problems that beset Australia today. The countries I have referred to negotiate their price fixing agreements by the method known as collective bargaining. What happened to that once great Rolls-Royce company in the United Kingdom? That was a company which was more than 100 years old, a company whose products were sought after by the motor industries throughout the world and a company whose aircraft engines were sought after by all countries. Because of the demands by the wage earners to wage earners who represent management and because of the consistent acceptance by management of those demands the RollsRoyce company is now insolvent. There is no doubt in my mind that that company will never reach the status in the world that it had in the past. 
What happened at the works of the Ford company at Dagenham in England? The workers there, because of the actions of the union bosses, were on strike for 4 or 5 months last year, lt was the intention of the Ford administration in America to pump $40m into the Dagenham plant in the United Kingdom to make sure it was brought up to date so that it would be able to compete with the French, the Germans and the Japanese. But because of the 4-month strike by the workers at the Ford plant at Dagenham the administration of the Ford company in America said: 'No dice; $40m would be sending good money after bad'. Whilst it has no relevance to the Ford plant at Dagenham, I have seen in different imports that the Ford company in America is now investing this money in South Korea, Singapore and Malaysia. This is what the British worker is missing out on. 
Let us talk about the Clyde shipyards, where there have been wage demands for years and years. The shipyards in the Clyde area were subsidised by the British Government because they tried to be competitive with the shipyards in Europe and Japan. The British Government reached the stage when it said that the subsidy to the Clyde shipyards had gone too high, and therefore the shipyards made the decision that they would have to close down. So the workers  - 1  say we are all workers - decided that they would manage the Clyde shipyards. What was the first instruction to their fellow workers by those who had usurped the management authority? They said: 'There shall be no drunkenness in the shipyard; there shall be no absenteeism and no sickies without a proper report from a doctor'. Tn other words, T am saying - and it is something we should all consider - that unions try to impose their own tyranny on their own workers once they take the helm. We do not want this sort of thing to happen in Australia. That is why I reject the principle of collective bargaining. Individual companies do accede to demands, under the stand and deliver tactics of militant unions. It is all very well to talk about  90  per cent of the people in Australia being wage or salary earners. But how many of them are unionists? Thirty-seven per cent are unionists. Now, of course, the great  Mr Hawke,  who is supported by the Opposition, is endeavouring to force compulsory unionism on all types of commercial enterprises throughout Australia. 
It is  Mr Hawke  and his henchmen - I could not care less - someone in the militant trade union movement. We have learned from the experience of the United Kingdom, France, Canada and the United States of America that collective bargaining just does not work. It can and does build up this unemployment pool that honourable members opposite talk about, and the union bosses and those in work have no responsibility for the unemployed. In Australia there must be a tripartite arrangement. Industry must look after its own interests and the unions must look after the interests of their workers, but the Government must have a say also because it must have the responsibility of looking after the unemployed, the pensioners, the sick, the maimed and the aged. It is all very well for the Opposition to say: 'We want more wages'. The boss is always the bad man in the piece. But the Government has this responsibility and has to tax those who are in work more and more to ensure that those who are out of work, those who cannot help themselves and those who are on pensions, can achieve a reasonable standard of living.  1  said earlier that there was a reasonable way of comparing average weekly earnings over many years in terms of the consumer price index, so  1  will quote a few figures for the benefit of honourable members opposite who say: 'We must get more of this drug SFN, something for nothing'. It is useless in the long run and will ultimately build up this unemployment pool that they are all so frightened of. From 1964 to 1970-71 average wages per male worker have increased each year by 7.1 per cent. The average consumer price index in that period has increased by 3.4 per cent each year. 

 Mi Birrell  -  What about profits? 
It takes a very simple calculation to indicate that all workers in work are getting more to spend each time they get wages rises. I would like to relate the increase in wages to increased productivity. This also can be done. I think it is a shame that Australia was credited in 1965-66 with a  1.4  per cent decrease in gross national product, but over the years I have mentioned the average figure is approximately 2.5 per cent, lt may be 3 per cent; if honourable members want these figures I have them with me. One honourable member opposite by way of interjection asked: 'How about the profits?' Honourable members opposite always talk about the profits of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, General Motors-Holden Ltd and such companies. The trouble is that they do not read the information available to them. The rate of profit for BHP is 2c in the  $1.  Wages account for 23 per cent of its costs, whereas 2c in the  $1  covers the profits. 
Two cents are also retained for expansion to increase productivity in the company itself. It retains 4c in the $1 altogether. If the workers of this country want this 4c in the $1 as a rise next year and so take all the profit away from BHP, for my part they can take it because it would be useless in checking inflation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Are waterside workers in large ports in Australia being paid up to $100 a week? If so, why is it that they now apparently want to work only 32 hours weekly and also want a morning tea break of 45 minutes when most employees have less time than this for their lunch break? Is  it this union - that is, the Waterside Workers Federation - which has the record achievement of more lost time through strike action than all other unions in Australia combined? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Are waterside workers in large ports in Australia being paid up to $100 a week? If so, why is it that they now apparently want to work only 32 hours weekly and also want a morning tea break of 45 minutes when most employees have less than this time for their lunch break? Is it this union - that is, the Waterside Workers Federation - which has the record achievement of more time lost through strike action than all other unions in Australia combined? 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: When a senior member of this Parliament tells employers not to confront employees and unions, does it signify that employers should be ready to meet excessive wage demands, which has been the pattern in recent years? Are some employers too ready to accede to union demands without recourse to the arbitration system and do they then approach the Tariff Board for additional protection against imports? 
-J present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24-year-old graduate in Building Technology, and Geoffrey Mullen, a 24-year-old graduate in Political Science, are serving a two year gaol sentence for failure to comply with the National Service Act. an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That their failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that their imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray. 
That the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act. remove from the record all convictions made under it, and cause Charles Martin and Geoffrey 
Mullen, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released and cease all further prosecutions under it. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Because of the regular and high increases in wages granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and those granted unilaterally by individual firms, how can the Government maintain its constantly avowed policy of full employment? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. Because of the extent of our overseas balances - I believe that these are at record levels - I ask the right honourable gentleman where these overseas balances are mainly held? Will w« have to meet large contingent losses if and when the United States dollar is eventually devalued? We suffered great losses when sterling was devalued in 1967. What protective monetary devices can be used to ensure the safety of our hard earned overseas balances? 
I address a question to the Minister for the Navy. In view of the apparent lack of security at the Williamstown Dockyard and other naval establish ments, which has been mentioned by the Minister, and the fact that new naval ships are under discussion, why does not the Government make a clean sweep of personnel at the Dockyard and employ men who are not security risks? If this cannot be done, why should this equipment be produced in Australia? 
This debate concerns the estimates for the Department of the Treasury covered by Divisions 540, 546, 548 and 552 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72. Frankly, I have a great deal of sympathy for Treasury officials because they take the brunt of what other departments think they need for the ensuing 12 months - .not only what the departments themselves think they need but also what the Ministers of those departments feel they need and what Prime Ministers want for this purpose and that purpose. But it is the attitude of the Treasury that is indicated to us when we receive the Budget papers. In fact, what I have in mind was illustrated by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  a few days ago when he was asked a question about the $7m proposed for the establishment of a national film and television school to educate actors, television producers and the like which had been deferred. I was sympathetic with the answer given by the Minister because the Government has saved $7m in expenditure over the next 12 months and," of course, the Treasury did not have to obtain this additional $7m in the form of revenue. 
The second reason for my supporting the decision of the Government is the fact that I have had representations from certain people in the television industry and in other, industries who have pointed out that there are many actors, producers, script writers and the like who are presently unemployed. I see no reason why we should set up a television school which would produce more actors, television writers and producers when there  is obviously unemployment in the industry today. I believe that it is a good thing that the Government has accepted the advice which was given by the Treasury in relation to the Budget. 
Of course, there are many matters . on which Treasury officials give advice to the Government. Sometimes this advice is accepted and, at other times, it is rejected. However, it is the Treasury's job to consider the demands from the various departments and from Ministers and to give a precise formulae to the Government, firstly on the way that the money should be expended and secondly, on how the money can be obtained from the taxpayers of Australia. It is then up to the Government to make a policy decision - whether to go ahead with this form of expenditure - and then to advise the Taxation Office, which is part of the Treasury, to find the money. In fact, it was the Treasury which warned the Government last year, in one of several papers that it issued, that the inflationary trend was besetting Australia. By implication, the Government should have accepted this view and done more than was done. 
I believe that last year's Budget was an inflationary one. We should have accepted the serious consideration given by the Treasury to these matters and done  moTe  to curb the beginnings of inflation than was done last year. The Treasury advised the Government that if it proceeded with the 1970-71 Budget, the inflationary trend would continue and some people in Australia would be distressed because of the effects of the Budget and the action taken by the Government. Of course, now. this has happened and some people are unemployed. The unemployment figures are higher today than they were last year and I forecast that they will be still higher as the months roll by, because we are now in the throes of what the Treasurer in his Budget Speech called 'this pernicious inflation'. 
Of course, other countries are also suffering from inflation. In my remarks on the Budget, I mentioned the problems that are besetting the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada. Treasury officials, who see the results of government activities in other parts of the world and who can draw upon their own training and experience, can provide expert advice to the Government and I believe this advice should be accepted to a much greater extent than has been the case in recent years. Australia is dependent on exports to such a large extent that we should determine whether these, exports are to be competitive with those of other countries. If we continue to raise costs by raising wages then, of course, we will not be competitive with overseas countries. One has to look only at the once great rural industries to see what has happened in Australia. Of course, with the diluted economy which Australia now has, we can support the once great primary industries, which really established Australia, by providing subsidies and the like. However, this is adding water to milk and it is not a good thing for any country, particularly a country like Australia, to be given a bigger volume of diluted milk. 
I believe that governments, particularly this Government, should be very prudent in their forms of expenditure. As I said, because of our high exports in relation to our population of 12 million or 13 million, Australia is more or less governed by decisions of other countries to a far greater extent than they are governed in their forms of expenditure. By this I mean that America, the United Kingdom and the members of the European Economic Community make decisions which have a greater impact on what happens in Australia than in their own countries. That is why I believe that the Government must in future, if it has not already seen the light, take more cognisance of what happens in our community and of what happens from Treasury advice and assess the future for Australia. 
I have often heard the honourable member say that costs are rising at a faster rate than wages. This is true and it is interesting to see in which areas this applies. It applies to government departments to a much greater extent than it does in private enterprise. I hope, by quoting from IPA Facts' of April-May 1971, to convince the honourable member that profits, which honourable members opposite seem to think are dirty! .are not the real cause of our problems . in Australia. This publication confirms that prices have risen more than wages, lt is interesting to see which prices have risen most since 1963  -  in the last 8 years. At the top of the list are local government rates which have increased by 62 per cent since 1963. Local government shire councils do not make profits. They are not extortionate in their demands to keep the councils on the move and to look after their ratepayers. All they are doing is trying to cover the cost of increased wages. That is why rates have increased. The next item on the list is rail and tram fares. These instrumentalities of State governments do not make profits. Fare increases have taken place because of increased costs due to increased wages, nothing more and nothing less. 
Another item refers to the 48 per cent increase in charges imposed by the PostmasterGeneral's Department. While the Postmaster-General's Department is a business undertaking and must pay a reasonable amount of interest on capital expenditure, it does not attempt to make profits in the normal sense of the word. I invite honourable members to examine this list because the last item mentioned concerns electrical appliances, etc. This is private enterprise in action. The increase in the price of these appliances has been minus 7 per cent since 1963. These are figures which honourable members opposite should examine before they criticise the Government. 
 The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister who is acting as Treasurer. Has the Government considered reintroducing double taxation deductibility on calls for mining shares of a speculative nature? By so doing would we reduce the. incidence of promising local mineral prospects falling into the hands of overseas companies? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal Is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That only a quick settlement of the Pakistan-Bangla Desh conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. 
That concerted action by the world community is an immediate imperative. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Australian Government, in order to effect relief to some, grant at least temporary entry to academic and qualified persons among those from Bangla Desh. 
That donations over $2 be tax deductible when contributed towards the relief of refugees inside and outside East Pakistan. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In this debate we are discussing Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72, and more particularly we are referring to the Department of External Territories. The total estimate that we are being asked to approve is $111,495,000, of which the major portion is allocated under Division 266. In other words, $106,582,000 is allocated under Division 266 which relates only to the Territory of Papua New Guinea. I suggest that the Department of External Territories, has as its main function, the administration and the bringing into the 1970s and 1980s of this great Territory north of Australia. In other words, the main job of the Department is to deal with the problems of government and to bring the people in the Territory into the 20th century. I believe that to the $106m which I have mentioned should also be added expenditure by the Department of Works, the Department of Civil Aviation, the Postmaster-General's Department and probably other departments. Whilst I have looked at the Appropriation Bill and the legislation from front to back, I have found it impossible to find any expenditure associated with these Australian Government departments which is spent in Papua New Guinea. I believe that some effort should be made by the Minister for Externa] Territories  (Mr Barnes)  and by these departments, too, to ensure that information relating to this additional expenditure is added to that incurred by the Department of External Territories. Thus we would be able to obtain information about the total amount of money which the Australian taxpayer sends to Papua New Guinea each year. 
The local budget for Papua New Guinea, as submitted by the Administration, amounted to $197. 6m, whereas the internal revenue of the Territory is shown as amounting to only $84. 3m. I suggest that the Territory is living at a pace which it can ill afford. In other words, there is a deficiency of at least $113m in the Territory's budget, which is more than the total amount of revenue brought into the Territory. So for a number of years the Territory of Papua New Guinea has been running at an increasing deficiency, so far as income or revenue is concerned, and I appreciate that this position will continue for a considerable time. However, I believe that the Minister, the Department and the territories should be looking not only at the possibility of decreasing - not increasing - the aid given by Australia in the form of finance and in the form of loans which are raised, in Australia and elsewhere, by the Administration through the House of Assembly and loans raised but also at endeavourng to become selfsufficient. I say this because the figures available to me indicate that imports last year, that is for 1970-71, were valued at $260m, which was an increase of 18 per cent over the previous year, whereas exports from the Territory were valued at $99m, which was an increase of only 9 per cent Over the previous year. Here again we see that imports are increasing at double the irate of exports. 
Obviously the Territory cannot be selfsufficient whilst this set of conditions applies. 1 believe that the Territory must be trained in self-sufficiency particularly now that the Bougainville Copper Co. is to begin operations at Bougainville. It is quite evident from the reports that are available to all of us that this company will be in operation in 1973 and that a good deal of revenue will be available to the Administration as a result not only of the company's granting 20 per cent pf its dividends to the Administration to be used for the benefit of the people but also from the taxation imposed on the company. In fact, my information indicates that because of the long range prosperity of the Bougainville Copper Co., a total of $276m will be available to the Administration over the next 10 years - an average of $27m per year. In other words the revenue figure of $82m, which I have mentioned, will be augmented by dividends from the company, taxation by the Administration on the company and by other means, royalties and the like. 
A good look must be had by the Minister, by his Department and by the Administration itself at the self-sufficiency of the Territory. We all know that income lax - personal exertion taxation - is considerably lower in the Territory than it is in Australia. We know, too, that many companies are not paying the same quantum of company tax as they pay in Australia. This is a good thing in the initial stages but I think that those people in the Territory who earn equivalent to what can be earned in Australia should be paying the same proportion of personal exertion tax and (hose companies, which have been established in the Territory for a given time - say 10 or 15 years - should also be paying taxation almost to the same extent, if not to the same extent, as they would pay in Australia. After all, it must be conceded that foreign companies are being established in the Territory and the subsidiaries of foreign concerns are producing goods and paying less tax than they would pay in their own countries and certainly less than they would pay in Australia. 
I believe there are 3 real dilemmas facing the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 1 have only a limited time in which to men tion these. The first dilemma centres around unity within the Territory itself. This is not my own thinking because the United Nations has sent delegations repeatedly to the Territory and one of the points the delegations have emphasised is the lack of unity in the different ethnic groups in the ' Territory itself. There is no need for me to amplify what has been said before and what may be said again. It is a problem for the local people. This is illustrated by the way the people in Bougainville regard the rest of the Territory and the people of Port Moresby, Rabaul and Lae. It is not necessary tor me to emphasise the problems that are still associated with the Gazelle Peninsula. This has been mentioned by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  But there must be some way by which we who have the trust responsibility for bringing these people into the latter part of the twentieth century can do more than we have done hitherto. The idea seems to have impinged on the minds of the people from the United Nations, and on my mind also from newspaper reports, that instead of unity getting closer in the Territory it is spreading further away. 
The second dilemma is associated with the economic situation. I see grounds for. being more positive about future possibilities because the Bougainville copper company will be in production by 1973 and it has long range projects which will help the revenue of the Territory. The third dilemma is associated with diplomatic relations - with foreign affairs. Little is being done by our Government, by our Minister or by the Administration to enable the local inhabitants to undertake diplomatic relations with other countries. I know that a start has been made and that an international relations branch has been set up, no doubt in the Administration, but I feel that there should be a nucleus of people who can conduct on their own behalf, the same as our people can conduct for Australia, discussions with their neighbours in South East Asia and in the South Pacific region. These would be discussions associated with their Territory and the associated countries with which they are talking. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Immigration whether he has interpreted a recent statement of public interest referring to immigration which says: 'the avoidance of any discrimination on any grounds of race or colour or nationality.' 
I address a question to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. What is the situation regarding wool being sold to manufacturers in Australia at 30c per lb which is apparently being imported from New Zealand? Is the Australian taxpayer expected to continue supporting the Australian Wool Commission while this set of conditions prevails? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and I ask: Why does not the Government reduce interest rates on Commonwealth bonds which are at an all time high? Does the Treasurer know that private enterprise and inter-company borrowing rates are the lowest for 2 years and that these transactions are taking place at  5i  per cent compared with 6.34 per cent, the current bond rate? 
As has been said, this section of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 deals with the Department of Labour and National Service and is covered by Division 370, 372 and 374. The main problems associated with the Department of Labour and National Service are connected with conciliation and arbitration. The 3 speakers who have preceded me have talked about conciliation and arbitration and the problems connected with it from 3 different points of view. All of them, in some way, have made a contribution to this debate. From an idealistic point of view I agree with the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  when he spoke of the need for conciliation and arbitration to be Commonwealthwide. Most of us realise that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, for which the Commonwealth is blamed by the Press and by members from both sides of this chamber, has a responsibility for only 40 per cent of the workers in Australia. In all there are 7 wage tribunals, if we like to call them that, each approaching the problem from a different point of view, so the Commonwealth responsibility is for only 40 per cent of the work force. 
Whilst the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  talked about the carpenters' award and seemed to blame the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government for that award recently proclaimed, it is my understanding that this was a State award and the State tribunal made a decision which does cause flow-ons with other tribunals throughout the Commonwealth and so the Commonwealth Government is involved. It is my personal belief that union leaders, particularly militant union leaders, take advantage of the lack of cohesion from the point of view of this Government and the State governments. Their job, of course, is to get the best deal for the workers. (Quorum formed) The militant union leaders, the socialists in Australia, take advantage of the system and endeavour to get for union members the best deal that is possible. No doubt this is what they are employed to do. I believe, however, that they are, because of our processess of democracy, debauching the democratic system as we know it. I believe that ultimately, if they keep on with these pressures, they will debauch the economy of Australia, they will impose then their own tyranny on the workers of Australia and the end result will be that the workers will be losers, not management as we know it today. 
Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that 80 per cent of the people of Australia are workers. I have no doubt he meant, as I mean, that workers are included in management as well as on the floor of factories and on the farms. The interests of workers can best be served by militant union leaders by calling for increasing productivity. With the bigger cake that we might have as a result of increased productivity more and more might be given to those who are responsible for it. This has not been the recipe in the past and I cannot see any variation in future by the Minister exhorting union leaders and other people to do more and more whilst the present system permeates our society. We have heard the Government talk about amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act but I believe that all the Minister will do is repaint various sections of the Act and refurnish other parts of it and the union leaders will take advantage of the new sections just as in the past they have taken advantage of the old sections. Frankly, I believe that a confrontation must take place between union leaders, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Government itself to bring home not only to the Government but also to the workers and their leaders the real need for workers to produce this larger cake - a larger gross national product - rather than to continue as they are doing and price Australia out of international affairs. If the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  wants to price us out of international commerce and exchange, that is his business, but I believe that the Australian workers are as good as any in the world. I believe, too. having been in many factories throughout the world that we have management that can compare with managements throughout the world. I believe we have the wherewithal, ability and people to do the job that should be done. The real problem is this constant holding up of production - the strikes that are engineered by union leaders against the good will and good thought of most Australians. 
The Minister's problem is to endeavour to convey to the unionists - I know he has been having meetings with the ACTU - the need to make a bigger cake. The honourable member for Stirling spoke of the fact that prices increase and therefore wages have to increase. It was the old story. I wonder whether he has looked at the figures submitted by the Bureau of Census and Statistics. Those figures detail rises in the consumer price index in each of the years from 1964 to 1971, the average increase being 3 per cent. In the same period the average weekly earnings increased by something over 7 per cent. In 1970-71 the increase in average weekly earnings was 10.1 per cent and I have been told that the average weekly earnings for the current year will be an even higher percentage. Productivity is the cake that is shared or should be shared by workers and management. In 1964-65 productivity increased by 3.6 per cent. In 1965-66 there was no increase; there was a negative quantity, minus 1.4 per cent. In 1969-70 productivity increased by 2.1 per cent. The need for increased productivity is the problem that tyrannises Australia and the work force will be the losers in the long run. 
Recently the Leader of the Opposition and his spokesman on industrial matters went before the people of Australia and told them what a good party the Australian Labor Party would be in government. It would fine the workers S20 each if they did not behave themselves and the industrialists $200. However we saw an instant industrial relations change. Within 48 hours of a caucus meeting being held the whole line-up of Opposition members capitulated to the trade union movement. The people of Australia who were looking, with some trepidation perhaps, to what the Opposition might do if it gained government went back to their homes in relief. They realised that the Opposition was soft-hearted and that it could not carry through with its theoretical proposals. The Leader of the Opposition and his spokesman on industrial matters recanted within 48 hours. I invite members opposite to tell the Committee what happened at the caucus meeting which was held on Wednesday 2 weeks ago. I should like to hear the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  tell us about it, because we know what we read in the newspapers. We saw the headline: 'A New Life Coming From the Leader of the Opposition'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.20) - The standard of living of all sections of our community depends to a large degree on the smooth operation of the Department of Labour and National Service and  thi  smooth operation of the various functions that are its responsibility. The appropriation of $12,500,000, a large sum of money in my opinion, could be justified only when it is used for the compilation of industrial statistics coupled with unbiased interpretation of those statistics, when it is used to build industrial harmony between employer and employee and when it is used to remove artificial or imaginary barriers that exist between one section of our community and another. f believe there is some evidence to show tha; the Department has no intention of making an unbiased interpretation and evidence to show that it cares little for industrial harmony or rising prices. On the contrary it has been used at least some of the time to divide our community and to turn one section against another. It is being used to cover up for the many weaknesses of this Government and to place the blame on the trade unions. At a time when pensioners, mothers of school age children and others are forced to pay more and more for goods and services due to legislation brought down by the State and Federal governments, all we hear in this Parliament is that the workers' wages are causing inflation. Yet everyone knows that the worker is forced to fight for higher wages in order to survive. The Treasury publication 'The Australian Economy 1971' gives some indication of what is happening to the man forced to rely on wage rates alone. This may not be the best example but it does give a fair indication of what is happening to the man forced to work at wage rates. At page 7 it states: 
The consumer price index for the last December and March quarters showed the price escalation had effectively reached a rate of 6 per cent. 
On page 14 it shows that wage rates rose by 5.7 per cent in 1970 and that average weekly earnings had risen by 8.2 per cent. The publication admits that a large part of the increase in average weekly earnings was due to an increase in the overtime worked. It states: 
According to the Survey of Larger Factories, the amount of overtime worked increased by 7.S per cent in 1969. 
It goes on to state: 
It is seen that over this period weekly wage rates have consistently risen at a slower rate than average earnings. In 1969, however, the discrepancy between the respective growth rates widened markedly. Average earnings grew SO per cent faster than in the previous year while weekly wage rates grew only 3 per cent faster. 
I repeat: Average earnings grew 50 per cent faster than in the previous year while weekly wage rates grew only 3 per cent faster. In other words, if a person is depending on the wage rate for a particular classification and he is not strong enough or healthy enough or is unable for other reasons to work overtime or to work at contract rates, or to hold down 2 jobs, he is like the pensioner. Average earnings and prices are leaving him for dead. Is it any wonder that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  are trying to find work for married women while single girls walk the streets looking for jobs? Everyone has a lot of sympathy for a mother of 2 or 3 school age children if the husband does not work overtime and the family depends only on his wage rate for the family income. She must be finding it very hard to make ends meet in the face of all the rising costs, but I do not think the solution should be that she should have to go out to work while the children get themselves off to school and return home to an empty house. In a country that has so many natural resources surely families can expect something better than this. 
Everyone knows that at the present time there are too many industrial disputes in this country. But all the Government does is to place the blame on Bob Hawke and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Yet we would have half as many industrial disputes in this country if the Department of Labour and National Service spent half as much time trying to settle the industrial disputes as it spends in trying to destroy the trade unions. The Minister and the honourable member for Wentworth show little inclination to grapple with areas of industrial unrest but instead they have made a concentrated and unwarranted attack on an area that has the best industrial record in New South Wales if not in the whole of Australia. In answer to a couple of pre-arranged questions the Minister made a degrading remark about where a trade unionist wore his badge on badge show day and said that Broken Hill was an example of excessive union power, or words to that effect. If the Minister wanted to tell the truth about this great city that has contributed so much to the development of Australia he would not have to search far to find it. I draw the attention of the chamber to the 'Journal of Industrial Relations' Volume 7, No. 2, of July 1965.  Mr S.  C. Taylor, speaking of Broken Hill industrial affairs, at page 101 stated: 
The city is reasonably free from industrial trouble as we understand it in other parts of the State. Quite a lot of bargaining and what would appear to the uninformed observer 'messing about' goes on before an agreement is entered into. Once entered into it is observed. This is not to mean that there is no industrial friction. There is. But there is not the pattern of strike action which persists in other parts of New South Wales, particularly, in the cities where the industries are. 
Again I quote from page 102 where he states: 
It is necessary to refer briefly to the position of the Barrier Industrial Council in these matters. This body is a grouping of delegates from all unions and its functioning is the ultimate authority in industrial relations in Broken Hill. The Council has a long history and has been officered by some sincere and intelligent men. 
I want to point out to the Parliament that the S. C. Taylor referred to was  Mr Justice  Taylor, past-President of the New South Wales Industrial Commission. He was largely responsible for the industrial relations on the Snowy Mountains project, which broke world records for tunnelling and associated works. With all due respect to the Minister and the honourable member for Wentworth, I do not think that there would be very many people in Australia who would seek their opinion on industrial relations before that of this great man. If further evidence is required, I ask the Parliament to examine the 'Industrial Labour Review', Volume 103 of May 1971. At page 443 Dianne Yerbury and J. E. Isaac state: 
All the agreements are made - and strictly observed - for a 3-year period, with the result that Broken Hill has enjoyed a quite exceptional record of industrial peace and stability. 1 will table these documents and advise the Minister that if he wants industrial peace in the nation he should examine them, but if he wants to use the trade union movement only as a smoke screen for a discredited government and wants to breed disruption and hatred in industrial relations, an examination of the statement made by the Barrier Industrial Council in the 'Barrier Daily Truth* on 20th August will give him some idea of the progress he is making. I would like to have seen this incorporated in Hansard but the Minister tells me he is not prepared to agree to that. Part of the statement reads: 
The ranting and raving that has been going on in Federal Parliament since the unfortunate death of Harold Holt sickens the average Australian, who realises we have no statesmen, only a pack of coalition politicians apparently hellbent on fostering another depression worse than that of the 30s. 
This statement is available to anyone who wants to see it. In the short time remaining to me I will read a letter which the General Manager of the Silverton Tramway Co. wrote when he left Broken Hill. His letter to me states: 
Dear John, 
Herewith copy of my letter to the B.I.C. at the time of my leaving Broken Hill, which you requested I make available for you for your Parliamentary use. 
Enclosed is another letter as follows: 

 Mr J. P. Keenan 
President, 
Barrier Industrial Council, 
Trades Hall, BROKEN HILL 2880. 
Dear  Mr Keenan 
After 22 years in Broken Hill I am as you are aware shortly to leave this city and take up residence in Melbourne in employment with the parent company of Silverton. 
Of my 22 years in Broken Hill, 19 years have been as the General Manager of the Silverton Tramway Company. . . . 
I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister in the belief that he is responsible for the authority which 1 will mention. As we have received reports from all statutory authorities except the Australian industries Development Corporation I am wondering when Parliament can expect the report from this authority. I ask this question because $25m initially was allocated to this Corporation and I notice that a further $12. 5m has been set aside in this year's Budget. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation: What is to be the future of Essendon Airport, that large and valuable area of real estate which is now almost deserted? 
lt is fairly difficult for me to follow the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and to bring the levity into this debate that he usually finds possible to bring into his contributions to this chamber. We are considering the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department and my contribution will be associated with Australia House. We all know that Australia House comes under the administration of the Prime Minister's Department and for years no doubt this was a logical way to assess the work that should have been done in London. However, I feel that it is time that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Cabinet in particular had a look at the work that is now being done by Australia House and other sections of the Department of Foreign Affairs to make certain that the Australian people and the Australian Parliament are getting value for their money from Australia House. 
When examining the Budget papers, I find that S6.6m has been set aside for administration and for salaries at Australia House and the sum total of salaries and administration costs for the Department of Foreign Affairs throughout the rest of the world is $22.7. More than 25 per cent of the money Australia spends overseas in the form of administration that makes certain that we in Australia receive reports from overseas is spent in Great Britain, and most of it is spent at Australia House. As I have suggested, over the years our association with the United Kingdom made it certain that we had - and perhaps still should have - very close links. However, I believe that because of the decline in trade with Great Britain and the fact that we have built up a Foreign Affairs Department with embassies throughout the capitals of Europe and throughout South East Asia, the Government must give serious consideration to what is happening at Australia House. I believe that the staff at Australia House should come under the administration of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and the Department of Foreign Affairs in Australia. 
I find that more than 1,100 personnel are employed in Australia House while Canada, which is almost the same size as Australia, seems to manage quite well with a staff of 500, and New Zealand, which is smaller than Australia but which obviously put its case forcibly and practically to the United Kingdom concerning the European Economic Community, has a staff of 320. The 1,100 people at Australia House do not seem to be able to achieve the same results for Australia as 320 New Zealanders achieve for that country. Admittedly both New Zealand and Canada do not worry to the same extent as we do about immigration matters. It is true that our Department of Immigration has 318 people looking after the migrants that we are trying to get not only from Great Britain but also from Europe, but even in that area only approximately 100 of these people are Australian based personnel. The balance of them are local people from the United Kingdom. Because we are reducing our immigration programme I believe that the personnel associated with immigration should be reduced from the 318 that I have mentioned to a much lesser number. As I have said, the New Zealanders have been able to get a far better deal than Australia concerning Britain's entry into the European Common Market. Therefore we need either better personnel representing Australia at Australia House or fewer of them. I believe that Parkinson's Law has applied at Australia House and will continue to apply unless some real good purpose is shown by the Cabinet and the Prime Minister in ensuring that Australia House performs the function that we in Australia want it to perform. It is often said that we have a good number of Service personnel at Australia House, and this is true. The figures indicate that Service department personnel in London consist of 39 Australian Army officers, 40 Royal Australian Air Force officers, 50 Navy officers and 9 joint Service personnel. 
I would ask the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to have a look at the Budget papers and ask a few questions, because that is why I am talking in this way. All of -these Service personnel are supposed to be servicing the Australian officers who go to England to participate in courses of various kinds. Canada has the same problem. It sends to the United Kingdom approximately 220 Service personnel each year, much the same number as Australia sends. But Canada carries out this servicing of her Service personnel with half the number of staff that Australia has. I believe that we can cut in half immediately the number of Service personnel stationed in London at the present time. 
Whilst the Department of Trade and Industry does not have a large number of personnel in London, it does spend a lot of money. For instance, $1.5m is spent by the Department of Trade and Industry on trade promotion. This is very nice provided our trade with Great Britain &gt;s increasing. Five years ago 25 per cent of Australian exports went to the United Kingdom. In the last 5 years this 25 per cent has been reduced to 12 per cent. On the one hand our trade with the UK, in terms of percentage of exports, is on the decline and, on the other hand, the expenditure by the Department of Trade and Industry in the UK is increasing. I come from a manufacturing industry. I was trained as an engineer and held the position of general manager of a company. I believe that we should be spending money in the areas where the best business is available. I believe that the Department of Trade and Industry should have its appropriation for the UK reduced if it cannot make sales in this area. 
If one looks at the Budget papers one finds that the appropriation for Australia House has been increased from $5 7in m 1970-71 to $6.8m in 1971-72! I ask Why has this happened? Why is almost an extra $lm of Australian money being ploughed into Australia House to do something which is obviously on a declining scale? I have said that Parkinson's Law obviously applies  at Australia House. I believe that the Prime Minister, the Cabinet and the Parliament should have a good look at this expenditure of the Australian taxpayers' funds. I do not mind money being spent in Kuala Lumpur, Tokyo, New York, Washington or wherever it may be, providing we can see results. But I find that on all sides we are seeing poorer results in the UK year by year, and the expenditure in that area should be reduced accordingly. 1 say that Australia House should be dismantled. The Prime Minister should say to our Minister for Foreign Affairs: 'You, Foreign Minister, take over the affairs of Australia House; segregate the Department of Immigration, the Department of Trade and Industry and the other similar departments that are represented at Australia House, but for goodness sake, Foreign Minister, take over the responsibilities, cut the staff to a reasonable number and compare achievements with those of Canada and New Zealand'. I do not say this in any critical sense. I am merely acting on behalf of the Australian taxpayer, the fellow who has to pay the bill. 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service: Does the Government have to stand by whilst an inter-union row holds up ships in Melbourne? How many ships are lying stagnant at the wharves and in the bay simply because of this union strike? How will the dispute affect supplies to Tasmania? Has the Opposition been asked to support the Government in stamping out these futile and costly hold-ups? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in south-west Tasmania, is threatened wilh inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation pf this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wildernes area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service read and digested the latest report issued by the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Does the report reflect any of the views recently expressed by a certain section of the news media? 
The Bills relate, as has been said by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  to financial assistance to be granted to the States of South Australia and New South Wales to help canneries or preserving companies in those States to maintain their equilibrium. It is not often that I enter into debates of this nature because they normally concern honourable members who represent primary industry and the rural section of the economy. But I believe that the companies mentioned in the Bills are manufacturing companies. In effect we are not helping the grower with these 2 Bills abut we are helping 3 manufacturing companies. 
As 1 see it, there is a pattern emerging which is contrary to the good principles of business as I understand them. On 6th May, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, the Minister introduced legislation concerning aid to be given to the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd. The amount involved was a loan of $4.2m. This loan was granted to the state Government of Victoria and is to be repaid to the Commonwealth at a given time and at a given interest rate. The Commonwealth Government has been able to find the money by reason of the fact thai it has the Consolidated Revenue Fund which is the taxpayers' funds. For the life of me, I cannot see as a satisfactory proposition one in respect of which we say to the people of Australia that we are giving this manufacturing company $4. 2m and expect ing it in turn to change its management and do an efficient job. I say this because  1  have a collection of statistics which I will present to those who are listening so that they can make up their own minds whether my thoughts about this problem are reasonable or whether we are doing more for these manufacturing concerns than we ought to be doing. 
I say that if we give  a  fruit preserving company this kind of assistance why not do the same thing for Massey Ferguson, a company which is still interested in rural production and in maintaining a balance in its company. The time must come, if we adopt the principles we are now adopting, when motor manufacturing companies also should be helped from the public purse - from Consolidated Revenue or the taxpayers' funds. It was obvious from the Minister's second reading speech concerning the Shepparton Preserving Co. on 6th May that the loan to that company had already been granted. It was obvious that negotiations had taken place between representatives of the Commonwealth Government and the Victorian Government and that all the Parliament did was to validate what had been decided prior to the legislation coming into this Parliament. r believe that the Opposition has a right - I believe that dissenters on this side of the House also have a right - to oppose decisions made by the Government if they feel that those decisions are wrong decisions. Therefore I believe it was quite wrong in principle to bring to the Parliament the Shepparton Preserving Co. legislation as was done on 6th May and to expect Opposition members to rubber stamp that legislation. I would like to see this sort of thing stopped in the future. I believe that honourable members on this side of the House, as I am doing now, should have the opportunity to dissent, to oppose, if you like, this type of legislation if they think that such action is necessary. Without divulging any Party room secrets I want to say that in our Party room, without knowing anything about this legislation, I asked the Minister several questions and I was not satisfied with his answers. Therefore, 1 delved into some of the characteristics of the Shepparton Preserving Co., the Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd, the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd and the Leeton Co-operative Cannery Ltd which is situated in New South Wales. My information, which T have obtained, from the best source available to a member of the Parliament, that is, the research section of the Parliamentary Library, is that 420 growers supply fruit to the Shepparton Preserving Co. A quick calculation shows that $4.2m spread amongst 420 growers represents §9.500 to each grower. Maybe this is a good thing. Maybe the growers needed the money. I am hoping only that they receive their share of it. 
I was somewhat disappointed to read in the Melbourne Press last week that 100 growers in the Shepparton district are now bankrupt. Of the 420 growers who supply the Shepparton Preserving Co. 100 are now bankrupt. I am wondering where the' $4.2m has gone. I know it is the responsi- . bility of the Victorian Government to disburse this money to the Shepparton Preserving Co. but, because we now find that 100 growers in this district are bankrupt, I must ask: Where has this money gone? There is something wrong with the calculations when this sort of thing happens. These problems are problems for the State governments, and it is quite obvious from the Minister's second reading speech that the South Australian Government on the one hand and the New South Wales Government on the other have presented information to the Commonwealth Government pointing out the problems associated with these preserving companies - that is, the Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd and the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd in South Australia, and the Leeton Cooperative Cannery Ltd in New South 
Wales, lt seems that in South Australia the Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd and the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd are getting on the bandwagon which we initiated on 6th May this year. The former is to receive $390,000, half from the Commonwealth Government and half from the State Government, and the latter is to receive $900,000 under the same conditions. Although we refer to them as loans I think in practice they are really grants. 
I agree with the honourable member for Dawson that there is nothing in the Bill to indicate repayment of these moneys by these preserving companies either to the State Government or to the Commonwealth Government and there is nothing in the legislation to indicate any interest rates for these loans; in fact, there is nothing mentioned about them being loans. It also seems to me that these loans are to service bad management in the companies, to pay long term debts owed to banks and enterpreneurs by the Jon Preserving Cooperative Ltd and the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd, to make certain that they become stable again. There is no mention in the Bill or in the second reading speech of the growers getting the benefit of these amounts provided by way of grant, not loan. There is no claim by the Minister that this will help the growers. He indicates, of course, that it will help' the preserving companies. All these companies are being assisted at the taxpayers' expense. In his second reading speech the Minister said - and it was paraphrased by the honourable member for Dawson: 
The Bill provides that payment of the amount is subject to such conditions, if any, as the Minister by instrument in writing determines, and the conditions may require repayment of the whole or part of the amount. 
That is all that the Minister said in his second reading speech. That is all that this Parliament is ratifying or validating today when it passes this legislation. So it is the Minister who decides - and we do not know who the Minister might be when a decision is made - when repayment is to be made and the terms and conditions of such repayment. That is why I mentioned when I first stood up that there seems to be a deviation from the principle normally adopted on this side of the Parliament. We are handing out this money as largesse without setting terms and conditions. For my part, although State governments may run into these problems with manufacturing co-operatives, it is their problem to look after these co-operatives and not the problem of the Federal Government. I have no doubt that the growers in the areas concerned need some assistance, but there is nothing in these Bills to indicate that we will be giving assistance lo the growers if we pass the Bills. In fact, in the Minister's second reading speech he said that the areas had been experiencing poor yields over the past 2 years. In other words, growers are in trouble because of poor yields and not because these preserving companies cannot convert their fruit into canned products. I am wondering how many growers are involved. 
I mentioned that the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd would receive $4.2m and that that company was supplied by 420 growers of whom 100, according to the Melbourne Press last week, are bankrupt, leaving 320 growers in the Shepparton district. Under the legislation which we introduced in May, each of those growers should have received $9,500; that is, $4.2m divided amongst 420 growers gives an average of $9,500 to each grower. Another simple calculation shows that the growers supplying the South Australian companies - Jon Preserving Cooperative Ltd and Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd - should receive $1,170 from the Commonwealth Government by way of the amount which it is granting to the State Government and an equivalent amount from the State Government. In other words, each grower in South Australia should receive S2.340 in a year when there have been, as was mentioned by the Minister, adverse crop yields. I find it difficult to see how we are helping the rural industry by making these grants to the State governments. If we were helping the growers I would be sympathetic in my consideration of these measures. As the former Minister for Trade and Industry.  Sir John  McEwen. often told us in our Party room, we do have a social problem in country areas, and I am as sympathetic as I can be to these problems. But I cannot see how these Bills will help the growers. 
The Commonwealth Government is to provide $874,000  to  Leeton Co-operative Cannery Ltd and the New South Wales Government will supply an equivalent amount, making a total of 51,748,000. On my information, 438 growers supply Leeton Co-operative. A simple calculation shows that if the money went to the growers each grower would receive approximately $4,000. If these measures are designed to help the growers 1 support the Bills, but it should be made quite clear in our minds that the Minister's second reading speech indicates that this money is meant to assist the canneries, not the growers, lt is to cover long term debts to banks and other people, ft should be made clear also that no repayment conditions are set out in the Bills. Certain conditions have been mentioned in the second reading speech, but it is the prerogative of the Minister to decide what the conditions are to be. Because [here is no mention of terms' in relation to the grants, presumably no interest will be payable by the growers, by the canneries or by the State governments to the Commonwealth. 1 mention also something that ' was mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson. Are we helping Australians by granting these amounts to these canneries through the State governments? 1 find that 40 per cent of the products of these companies is consumed by Australians. In other words we are helping Australians when we make these amounts available. But 60 per cent of the products is exported. In other words, we are helping those countries to which they are exported to maintain a consumer price index lower than our own because we are putting a subsidy, taxpayers funds, into helping to sell these products overseas for less than the cost at which they are produced. The United Kingdom is the largest market for these products. In 1970-71 it took 64.7 per cent of our exports of canned fruit. Canada took 9.7 per cent and the United States of America took 6 per cent. Thai leaves a small balance for other countries. In other words, we are helping the British by putting this money into these canneries and by subsidising canneries generally. 
I wrote these notes before Britain decided to join the European Common Market. It has now made the decision that it wants to go into the European Economic Community, and in future it will be associated with European and not with Australian producers. So we should face the fact that the growers in the areas where this assistance will be provided are in for a bad time. We have already heard of comment in the Shepparton district about the fact that 100 growers are now bankrupt. 1 do not want to see growers bankrupt. I want to see them flourising as they ought to flourish. But the facts are there to be seen. There is no subsidy for exports of canned fruit. The honourable member for Dawson, mentioned devaluation compensation, particularly for this industry. Again I think the people who can hear me speaking today should know the figures because they are important. Devaluation compensation for this industry in 1968 was S4,268,000, in 1969 $500,000 and in 197.0 $400,000  -  a grand total of devaluation compensation of $5,168,000. As far as I can ascertain, there are probably 2,000 growers involved in this industry that was set up to export overseas. 
I say to the people of Australia that this is a lot of money to set aside for devaluation compensation, which fortunately is nearly finished. Over S5m has been set aside for devaluation compensation for approximately 2,000 growers. I have not opposed devaluation compensation, but I think we all should realise that the dairying' industry has had subscribed to it by the Commonwealth Government millions and millions of dollars as devaluation compensation. For those who arc listening and do not understand what devaluation compensation means it means that the British devalued their currency - in 1967 to the extent, I think, of 14 per cent, and the Australian Government made up the difference between the price that the export commodity would have brought before devaluation and the price it brought due to this 14 per cent reduction in sterling. 
I believe we too easily accept that money such as this comes from Consolidated Revenue. I think.  Sir, that  we all should have a look at Consolidated Revenue, realising that it is not our money, not the Government's money, not the money of the Parliament but that it belongs to the people of Australia, the people in your electorate and my electorate, the taxi drivers, the accountants and the teachers. I think we all should go home tonight and realise that these people are spending this money through their representatives in the Parliament, and 1 voice my word of protest. 
J address my question to the Treasurer. In view of the Treasurer's contribution to the debate on the motion of no confidence last week when he said that the bulk of capital inflow this year was for loans to commercial enterprises in Australia I now ask whether Australian companies, either  locally owned or substantially owned overseas, have been borrowing overseas in recent years simply because interest rates  in Australia are too high? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we express our deepest concern for our fellow men suffering in the refugee camps in India. While we recognise India's outstanding contribution in providing as far as possible, for their immediate needs, we consider that this is a problem for all mankind to solve, as there are nine million people, many of them helpless children, affected. 
Now we ask the Government to: 
Give immediate aid of at least $10,000,000 to help relieve the suffering. 
Make concerted diplomatic efforts in seeking  a  peaceful solution to the present conflict. 
Urge the United Nations to exert a stronger effort on behalf of these stricken people'. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question to the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to  Mr 
Francis James. Can the Minister say what efforts the Australian Government is making on behalf of  Mr Francis  James, as to his whereabouts and welfare and the possibility of facilitating his release from China? 
As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, we are debating the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) and more particularly the Government's decision to reintroduce the plant investment allowance for manufacturing industries. Those of us interested in this form of legislation know that it was introduced by the Government during April 1962, and at that time I supported the Government in its intention to create greater opportunities for employment, to enable manufacturing industries particularly to set up a base for exporting their products overseas, and to make them more efficient. 1 have no doubt that when the vote is taken on this new piece of legislation the Government will reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I think he put his finger on the crux of the situation when he read a letter from one of the companies within his electorate stating that other companies using the manufactured goods of this company had to make do with old equipment. This is what the Liberal Party in coalition with the Country Party, as a free enterprise Government, is trying to avoid. We want manufacturing industries to use the most up to date equipment that it is possible to obtain. Not only do we want them to obtain it in Australia if it is manufactured here; we also want them to import it from overseas. Hence this incentive by the Government. 
On 3rd February 1971 the Government suspended this plant investment allowance. I was one of the few on this side of the House who chided the Government for having suspended this very important and useful legislation. I told the Government then that the decision it had made was incorrect, and I repeat now that I support the reintroduction of this legislation because it is so useful to manufacturing industry. One of the points made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was that overseas investment in companies in Australia is fraught with danger. Of course it is. But when one looks at the figures - I do not have them readily available with me but I did have a look at them over the weekend - one can realise that the investment in Australia by overseas interests, entrepreneurs and so on does not affect manufacturing industry to a great extent. The investment by overseas companies in Australia's operations takes the form of speculative investment in the mining industry, the oil industry, the chemical industry and investment companies themselves. The figures associated with the manufacturing industry show very little increased investment by overseas companies in Australian industry, with one or 2 minor exceptions, so I do not think we can use that argument as a reason for not reintroducing this plant investment allowance. It is possible, of course, for people on this side of the House to say, as I did in February 1971, that the Government has made a wrong decision. We on this side of the House do that in our Party room meetings, and we can also do it on the floor of the Parliament, as I did last year; but of course on this occasion I am supporting the Government in its decision. In 1962 the then Treasurer, when introducing this form of legislation, used these words: 
In proposing (his allowance the Government aims to encourage greater investment in our manufacturing industries - 
I believe the intention was that there should be investment by Australians in manufacturing industries -  and thus ensure in both the short and long term  a  greater volume of output and employment. 
I believe that these facts were really the core of the situation in 1962 and I believe that manufacturing industry in Australia, because of the initial 20 per cent deduction in the first year after their plant investment, took advantage of this legislation. Nobody could gainsay that all countries, particularly industrial countries, use this form of encouragement to manufacturing industries. In Australia it was given not only to manufacturing industries - I will come to that very shortly - but also to primary industry and other industries. I believe that we should and must keep manufacturing industry up to maximum efficiency if we are to maintain efficiency and employment opportunities and establish the base that manufacturing industries have already started so that they may continue their drive for the export of their products overseas. 
There are no doubts in my mind that costs in Australia have risen to such an extent that productivity and efficiency are the real nub of our problem. The better the equipment used by the manufacturers the better we will be able to compete wilh other industrial nations. I think it should be remembered that we are now competing on an international basis with overseas countries in all fields, manufacturing, primary industry, mining - you name it, we have to compete. One thing that all buyers want to know is the price of the product. They ask: 'What will it cost delivered on to my floor?' Therefore efficiency in the Australian manufacturing industry is of paramount importance. 
Of course it is true, as was said last week, that the reintroduction of the plant investment allowance will help companies such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Frankly I was sickened by the reports and discussion that 1 read in the newspapers and saw in the news media generally concerning BHP and the general effect that it had on the people of Australia. This mighty company has done much for Australia, yet we in this Parliament and practically all the news media criticise it left right and centre. Most Australians look with awe at overseas companies such as General Motors-Holden's of America, Mitsubishi of Japan and the Krupp company of Germany. We used to look with a good deal of awc too at Rolls-Royce in Great Britain until the unions in the United Kingdom brought that once great company to its knees. But when a company in Australia does as much for Australia as BHP has done we tear it apart. I often wonder how the directors and the executive of BHP stand the criticism and listen to the hogwash that is thrown at them in this Parliament and by the news media. Honourable members opposite are trying to interject. Of course the Opposition agrees that BHP also should be brought to its knees. 
How many people realise that for every $1 received by the BHP for its steel products 4c is set aside for profit? How many people know that the Government guarantees the investor in a conversion loan or any Commonwealth loan 6c or 6 per cent minimum return on investment. If it is good enough for a government to give its shareholders 6 per cent per annum on their investment in Commonwealth loans surely it is good enough for the biggest company in this country to give its shareholders 6 per cent on the investment that they have in the company. The shareholders give themselves 4c in the SI and yet we criticise this mighty company. How many people realise that the defence of Australia is almost entirely dependent on what BHP does in the future, with all the industrial strife that it has to put up with? How many people in this Parliament realise that it has docked or tied up a new 105,000 ton ore carrier simply because of industrial unrest at Port Kembla? These are the things people ought to be talking about. I would like to think that the news media when it talked about BHP talked also about the regular and consistent wage increases and the stoppages that take place throughout Australia at this great company's expense. These are the reasons why BHP put its prices up. with a basic rise of 5.3 per cent, last week or the week before. I hope that the BHP can take advantage- 
I speak as a member of this Parliament who likes to see a fair go and who likes to see a company like BHP and other companies which are big and successful and which are doing a good job for the thousands of workers that they employ aided and abetted by any government, whether it be the government that presently holds office or any other government that may hold office in the far distant future. These are the companies that create employment opportunities and that do a tremendous amount for Australia overseas. Let it be known that  over  the years BHP has continued to supply Australian needs first. BHP has had many opportunities to export its products at lucrative prices. As most members of the Opposition will know, its prices are competitive with those of all countries that produce ordinary steel, unless it is made in the salt mines so to speak, and even then 1 think that BHP can beat their prices. BHP is an Australian company, trying to look after Australia's interests, and yet we see honourable members in this Parliament and practically all of the news media trying to tear it apart. 1 wonder that the directors, the executive and even the worker- of BHP do not go home, saying: We have had enough of this criticism by so-called Australians'. 
There is less specula; ion in manufacturing industry shares on the stock market than in other shares. Its shares increase or decrease according to market needs or to supply and demand, but not to the same extent as with many other industries throughout Australia. Most manufacturers - not all of them, but most of them - undertake a real market research of their requirements for one year, 2 years or further ahead, and therefore any investment in equipment, buildings or anything else is done after this work has been carried out. 1 wish that the primary industry sector would do the same market research so that it would be able to tell the boards that seem to look after its interests that in future it will sell so many bushels of wheat or so many bales of wool wherever that research indicates produce should be sold, instead of continuing to produce, as has happened with the wheat industry on the one hand and with the wool industry on the other, and then saying to the Government: 'We are in trouble; you had better help us out'. 1 would like to think that other industries had the same sensible reasoning as manufacturing industries appear to have. There is more stability in the manufacturing industries than in other industry in Australia. As I have said, management research on the future of private enterprise companies is carried out to make certain that what managements put in black and white to their directors is true and not false. 1 have spoken particularly about BHP and I am glad,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you have allowed me to do so, because 1 was really sickened at the criticism by people- 
We are debating the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) and this is relevant to the Bill. I should like to hear the honourable member for Bowman talk about this Bill. 1 have not heard him talk yet on this subject or on any other subject. I should like to know what are his feelings about plant investment. A tremendous number of figures are available indicating the amount of assistance provided to industry. I have already mentioned primary industry. I will use my memory for what I am now about to say. If one looks at the Budget papers one will find that $37 lm was set aside this financial year for assistance to industry. This year primary industry is to receive an additional $64m in assistance. Assistance for secondary industry - for manufacturing industries - has depreciated from $90m, which was provided last financial year, to approximately $82m. Of course, these figures will alter as a result of this decision by the Government to reintroduce the plant investment allowance. Of the $37 lm provided as assistance to industry, $27 lm has been set aside for primary industry. A quick calculation reveals that this is equal to $Sm a week set aside to help the wool industry and any other primary industry that one cares to mention. This is why I feel so strongly about manufacturing industry, which looks after its workers and endeavours to maintain stability in employment for its workers, receiving so much criticism. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is designed to specialise industry or, by one way or another, to let the Government take over control of the profits of these industries. This is the purpose of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. He said that we should look at the industries we want to support and select them on a personal basis so that we can help this one and not help the other one. I cannot agree with the purpose of the amendment and I support and applaud the Government for this new legislation which reintroduces the plant investment allowance. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and  ational  Service. No doubt the Minister is aware of the discussion on draft dodging. Bringing it down to simple terms, I ask: Is draft dodging a crime? 
I address a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. What in tariff parlance is meant by the term: 'We will use the carrot or the stick in industry'? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that Stale governments will shortly be having constitutional discussions - not before time - sponsored by Victoria, what positive steps will the Commonwealth take not only to participate in these discussions but to make a useful contribution as well? 
I ask the Treasurer  a  question supplementary to that asked in a different form by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. Has the Treasurer had a good look at the new Budget presented by  Mr Barber  in the United Kingdom which had 3 main aims? Does he consider that similar treatment of a budget in Australia would achieve the same results? As taxation revenue has been considerably reduced in the United Kingdom, why should this trend not be followed in Australia? 
Well, the honourable member might have something there. I believe that some of the management in Australia is poor but by the same standard I believe that in certain industries Australian management standards are equal to those in the rest of the world. In the motor industry, in the electronic industry and elsewhere, management in Australia is as good as and in some cases better than it is in other parts of the world. Earlier this evening, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  talked about me as if I were a boss of a company. He does not know that I came from the floor of a shop; 1 served my apprenticeship as an electrical fitter and I know what the men are thinking about. They do not want to be pushed around by somebody in a union office. They just want to eat their meals, go home to their wives, have a couple of beers and be left alone. That is why the ordinary unionist does not even go to union meetings. He is not interested in this confrontation with the boss because he knows that the boss and the manager work the same as he works. 
So the old Act was useless. It was introduced in 1920. As the Minister for Labour and National Service .  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned, it took a long time to do anything about industrial disturbances in the Commonwealth Public Service. A disturbance could continue for 5 weeks or 6 weeks and, in the meantime, nobody is having switchboards installed, nobody receives telegrams and somebody may not receive his telephone account because some union boss in an office says: 'This is what we will do and I expect the workers to follow the line'. This is why we are likely to get this civil action in Australia, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said. There will be civil action if some of these union bosses keep pushing their barrow as hard as they have pushed it in the past. There are moderate union people who feel that other unionists are pushing them around. They are not getting their ordinary pay packet each week and their wives are on their backs. Therefore, they will confront these militant unionists unless they do something about it and pull in their horns. 
This activity by the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union on the limitation of work was just another factor in this situation. It is a technique that enables employees to go to work, not carry out their full operations and then receive a full day's pay. In other words, they are doing half a day's work for a full day's pay at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. Those days are gone because all of us, whatever our activity, must give a full day's work for a full day's pay. The taxpayer pays us in the long run. If he does not pay in goods and services, he pays the Commonwealth Public Service in increased taxes. That is why I have some sympathy with the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  at each Budget time because he must find this extra amount of money which goes into the Commonwealth Public Service in the form of wages and salaries. 
We must get rid of this concept of the union boss versus the people. I believe the Minister is correct in his approach to this matter. As I read the Bill, I assess that this is what it will do: The arbitrator appointed by the Public Service Board can stand down officers or employees involved in the dispute or who cannot be gainfully employed as a result of the dispute; he can apply the principles as was mentioned earlier of no work, no pay where officers or employees refuse to do all the duties they are required to do; he can direct organisations to withdraw bans or stoppages; and, he can amend the terms and conditions of employment of the particular class of officers or employees in an effort to overcome the cause of the industrial situation. In other words, all we are asking of the Commonwealth Public Service employees is to go to an arbitrator and not to use this standover bludgeon tactic that has been used recently; not to keep going to the Public Service Board or to the directorgeneral of the department and saying: Unless we get this or unless we get that there will be no more work done in this particular minor section of our activity'. They do not seem to realise that it is the people who are paying for this. The people have to pay in increased taxes and. as I said, they paid $50,000 for.  a  24-hour stoppage at the Sydney Mail Exchange simpy because 4 men would not go to work. 
This is an impossible situation for a country to consider and to keep up because the country just cannot afford it. I believe that we all should bring a little sweet reason to the problems associated with unionists and, if you like, with bosses, because they need sweet reason too. This is not an attempt by the Commonwealth Public Service Board to stand over the APWU or any other union associated with the Public Service. It is designed to bring sweet reason into the set-up so that the people of Australia can be protected. I support the Minister for Labour and National Service in his efforts and feel sure that this Bill will shortly be passed. 
I present the follow ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent ils unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Minister for External Territories. In view of the optimistic predictions made for the oil palm project at Cape Hoskins in West New Britain and its importance to the economy of Papua New Guinea, will the Minister inform the House whether the project is meeting these expectations? If it is, will the Minister say what share, if any, the indigenous people will have in the success of the project? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensivedomiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public  enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were received from  Mr Les  Johnson,  Mr Reynolds,  and  Mr McIvor. 
 J address a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. As the Australian Labor Party has called for an increase in the price of Australian crude oil I ask the Minister: What is the Government's attitude to this proposition? Has the Opposition made representations to the Government regarding this subject and is its attitude a unanimous one? 
I address my question without notice to the Minister for Labour and National Service. In view of the fact that the arbitration system has been bypassed as a result of a recent agreement between waterside workers and their employers, will the Government ensure that any increased costs will not be passed on to users and that increases in freight charges and other costs will be absorbed by the employers? Is the taxpayer to be continually required to pay increases in the cost of goods and services simply because private arrangements such as this one are entered into? 
I address my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. The Minister has already outlined in various ways what the oil industry in Australia may expect in the form of returns as a result of its crude production. How does this decision compare with what is happening overseas and could there be any changes in Australia with a different administration? 
I address a question to the Treasurer. With Australian reserves overseas at a record high level and because of a rash of takeovers within Australia and by overseas companies, will the Government revalue the Australian dollar or will we allow it to move freely to the limit to which it is entitled to move on the foreign exchange market? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  introduced this Bill on 27th April, which was 2 weeks ago, and most of us on this side of the House were waiting for a statement from the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations or at least a statement of some consequence from the Leader of the Oppostion. To my knowledge, this was not presented either to the Press or to the other news media. We know the reason now because we saw Big Brother in the precincts of the House yesterday. I refer to the  President  and Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Without doubt, a conference was held and the Opposition spokesman on industrial relations in this Parliament got his riding instructions. It is quite obvious from the speech delivered by the honourble member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  because he spent 15 minutes at least on shop stewards, that his riding instructions had to concern the union movement itself and not the legislation before this chamber. 
I concede that shop stewards have a very important part to play in unionism, but I also believe that a responsible government should do a lot more concerning policy than worry about the activities of shop stewards throughout various factories in this country. Our job is to legislate for all the people of Australia and not for a minor section of them. There is no doubt that trade unionists themselves will look after their own affairs. They are quite capable, and are willing to do this. There is no doubt in my mind that management organisations, too, can look after their affairs. Our responsibility is to all the people of Australia and not to one minor but significant section of them. 
The changes made to this legislation over the years have been significant, but this is the most significant change since 1947. Changes were made in 1956, but to make sure that we were brought up to date in the 1970s with conciliation and arbitration, the Government, through the Minister for Labour and National Service, decided to alter this Bill to a large extent. What causes governments to alter legislation which has been in existence since 1904? The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  said that this alteration is being made because the Government is looking for election propaganda. Nothing is further from the truth. The real reason is that this legislation must be considered against a background of wage induced inflation, union strife, union unrest and the tremendous cost of these things not only to the people of Australia but to unionists themselves. The stage has been reached, in my mind, where we can say today the situation is: Union bosses versus the people. I will use this slogan if I have to during the election campaign because those who belong to militant unions have overrun their real responsibility to the unions concerned and to Australia. The honourable member for Hindmarsh used the expression cargo cult*. I believe that some union bosses believe in the cargo cult - something for nothing; that it is possible once they pull out their workers on strike that somebody will move to give them more money, better conditions, or to give them something. As their activities affect industries on which the whole community depends - transport, power and the like - somebody has to lose. We believe that we are responsible not only for the ordinary workers in Australia but also for the pensioners, those on superannuation and the like. Therefore governments have to move when 11,000 workers from the State Electricity Commission go on strike and as a result at least 220,000 other workers are laid off. In the last debate on this subject the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  said that we had almost reached the civil war stage. But he did not give the reasons. The reasons are these: Some of the representatives of the 220,000 workers laid off because 11,000 SEC workers went on strike protested before the Trades Hall Council in Melbourne. That is where the civil action would have taken place, with unionists versus unionists, if something had not been done to settle the strike. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has also said during some of his contributions in this Parliament that 85 per cent of people in Australia are either workers or families of workers. T wonder where the workers think the extra money is coming from if it is not to be gained from additional productivity and the like. That is why I mention this cargo cult. They seem to feel that if we start the printing presses rolling somebody will find the money for them. It is impossible for any government to reduce inflation while all this extra money is paid in wages for workers. Frankly I do not mind if a worker gets $1,000 a week, and I have mentioned this before; but I believe that industries in Australia have to be competitive with others not only in Australia but also overseas. The trouble with the union movement is that it feels that its members can go on strike, demand more money and conditions and that somebody else, not them, will pay. It is the work force, because 85 per cent of people are in the work force, that has to pay for all the new conditions and the additional wages paid to them. 
It is a Government aim that conciliation and arbitration should be conducted on an orderly basis. Industrial relations form a very important section of the Commonwealth Government's responsibilities, and that is why we have made changes to the legislation that will allow relations to be conducted in an orderly manner for the benefit of all the people in Australia. We are worried, as I said earlier, about the pensioner, the person on superannuation and the person who cannot battle for himself. He has no militant union boss to tell him when to go on strike, because nobody pays him extra money anyway. Whether these proposals bring sanity to conciliation and arbitration I feel is very doubtful. I feel that the militant unions will continue their so-called struggle for more money and better conditions despite the effect that their activities have on the balance of the community. The arrogant union bosses flout the law - that is the conciliation and arbitration law - even though it is set up to protect their members and other people in Australia. The honourable member for Hindmarsh talked about  Mr Justice  Higgins and said that he made a flowery speech in 1917. With this I will agree. But what else did  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Higgins say about conciliation and arbitration in 1904? He said: 
The process of conciliation, with arbitration in the background, » substituted for the rude and barbarous processes of strike and lockout. Reason is to displace force. The might of the State is to enforce peace between industrial combatants and all in the interests of the public, 
This is the purpose of the changes in the present legislation - to look after the interests of the general public, those who cannot fend for themselves. The Minister would be derelict to his responsibility if he had not brought this type of amendment before the chamber as quickly as possible. It is strikes and the exorbitant demands for higher wages that have caused our inflation to become rampant. Do not let any of us believe that inflation is under control in Australia. It is still rampant, and it is the Government's responsibility to ensure that inflation is curtailed. The members of the Opposition have asked: Why try to curtail inflation by taking it out on the wage earner?' I have already said that wage earners represent 85 per cent of the people of Australia. 
I will mention figures now which indicate to me that in the last 10 years the wage earner has received his fair slice of the cake. They come from a very small booklet called IPA Facts'. The illustration shows that in 1970-71 the national turnover of goods and services amounted to $38,000m. If prices had remained at their 1960-61 levels, these goods and services could have been bought for $28,000m. Who got the extra $ 10,000m between 1960-61 and 1970-71? I will show who got the bulk of it. Increased wages accounted for 59 per cent, indirect taxes and charges to governments because of increased wages accounted for 11 per cent, company tax accounted for 6 per cent and company dividends accounted for 1 per cent. A miserly $100m went in additional company dividends when an additional $ 10,000m was spent without an extra bolt or potato being produced. 
This is the problem that faces the Government, and this is the reason why the Government has taken strong action in introducing this legislation. As a result of the national wage case decision last Friday an extra $464m was added to wage charges in Australia. There will not be any additional production as a result of the injection of an additional $464m into the economy. The decision by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission brought a strange statement from the honourable member for Hindmarsh. He said: 'Labor predicts unprecedented industrial action.' Not only does he predict it, but I guess that he hopes for it too. In the body of the information I have it states: 
The shadow Minister for industrial relations,  Mr C.  R. Cameron, forecasts major strikes throughout the country affecting all sections of the community. It remains the only thing now left to the unions. 
What a wonderful introduction for a new piece of legislation to go on to the statute book in this Commonwealth Parliament when we have the spokesman for industrial relations from the Opposition inciting unions to go on strike, to break the law so that the penalties can be imposed. He is a political animal. No doubt many of us feel that way too. I was amazed at the response by the honourable member for Hindmarsh to the national wage case decision last Friday. 
The honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  mentioned the problems associated with the primary industry sector of our economy. I would say that the wage increases given to workers throughout the country over the last 6 or 7 years have been a burden which has brought the once great primary industries down to their knees. Nothing could be worse for the morale of primary producers than having to come to the Commonwealth Government as they do asking for subsidies and assistance, indicating to the Government that they cannot be competitive with other countries because their costs are too high. The reason that their costs are too high is wage increases for the goods they produce and the services they render. As I understand it there is only one section that is really competitive without assistance from the Government. I am speaking about the beef industry. No doubt if wages increase in the future and other cost increases in the primary production section of our economy continue the beef industry also will be in trouble. The time must come when the Government will find it impossible to load tax to the extent that it has and give more and more subsidies and grants which come from the taxpayers, including unionists and wage earners, because no-one else can pay - to primary industries. Then, of course, the primary industries will wither on the vine. 
The honourable member talks about tariffs, and he is quite right. Secondary industry, too, is demanding more and more tariff protection simply because the manufacturing section of our economy is not competitive with overseas manufacturers. 
It is impossible for industry to keep producing and to compete with industry in overseas countries unless the taxpayers pay money so that governments can subsidise various industries or give tariff protection to them. If one things about this matter deliberately one comes to the conclusion that it is spellbinding. I am wondering whether the spokesman for the Labor Party - 'that is big brother, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions - does give any real consideration to the problems that he is creating through his powerful position in that organisation. I have a document which was written by the Institute of Public Affairs headed: 'Strange Economies'. This document talks about the gentleman I have mentioned. When asked about our present economic system the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions - and I use his words, although I would normally not do so in this chamber - said that the economy is bloody crazy'. This was the response of the so-called  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions when asked on a television programme: 'What is the present situation of the Australian economy?' It was quite evident to the viewers that  Mr Hawke  left no doubt that his solution for inflation was to do away with our western type free enterprise economy and to replace it with socialism. 
The honourable member for Robertson agrees. I wonder where his business would be if socialism were an established fact in this country. What the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Labor Party want is socialism in Australia. They support their contention with plenty of words but they do not present any statistics. Can we listen for just a moment to some of the statistics? Let us take a few socialist countries and see how well they are doing from the point of view of gross national product at factor cost per head. The amount for Romania is SUS860; Russia, $US 1,200 and Poland, SUS940. That is enough of the socialist countries. Now let us talk about private enterprise countries. In West Germany the GNP is SUS2.190, Britain, $US1,890 and Australia, $US2,300. Therefore the western countries have a greater amount of GNP per head than any of the socialist countries. 
Let us consider the figures, in relation to motor cars. Romania has 3 cars per 1,000 of population and ought , to be ashamed of this low number. Russia has 5 per 1,000 and Poland 13 per 1,000. In contrast Australia has 299 per 1,000 and America 427 per 1,000. No-one can say that the socialist countries I have mentioned have not had time to fix their economies to enable their people to receive some of the cake we are talking about. The Soviet Union has been a socialist country for 55 years. It has the resources and also, so it says, the ability. Russia can send satellites to orbit the moon, yet the poor creatures - the wage earners - in that country can afford only 5 cars per 1,000 of population. 
On the other hand, Australia has 299 cars per 1,000 and the United States has 427 per 1,000. I have other statistics here. If honourable members opposite want to talk about socialist countries they can have a look at the statistics in relation to television sets and other amenities that are important to the people - they are important to Australians too. It is because we have a free enterprise economy that we will retain government after the next election. We have a system under which individual incentive produces results. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. Is the State Labor Premier of Western Australia now negotiating overseas loans with foreign financiers? How do loans such as these affect inflation and how do they line up with the remarks of carping critics who continually raise matters of public importance in this House about overseas investment in Australia? 
1 address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has it been standard practice for some organisations as well as government departments to deduct union membership contributions from salaries and wages, and to hand the dollars to union secretaries? Has the Teachers Federation now imposed a $14 increase to be so deducted, which will be used to assist the Opposition to conduct its general election campaign? What is the Government doing about this insidious practice which contravenes all feelings of a fair go for individuals, most of whom do not want to see a socialist government in Australia? 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence. In view of the consistent news media reports about the gains made by Hanoi in its military aggression against South Vietnam, can the Minister give the House and the people of Australia the truth about this aggression? Is it correct that the Army of the Republic of Vietnam ib packing up and retreating, as the news media indicates, or is it standing firm and in many places hitting back at the aggressors? 
As a member of the Public Works Committee, I feel that I should say a few words. This subject was discussed by the Committee. We reached the conclusion that the  Chairman  of the Committee should carry out the exercise which he has carried out tonight. One of the reasons why I am making a contribution to this debate is the effort made yesterday by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I believe that he went through the realm of fantasy then and again tonight by pointing out the penalties which can result if certain action is taken and if information which should not be disclosed is disclosed. Actually, the information was given to the Committee - this was mentioned by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)-  on 18th April and the conclusions of the Committee virtually were reached on 20th April. Before the final conclusions were arrived at, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  did not make a statement, as the honourable member for Hughes said; but on 4th May he did answer a question. I believe that Prime 
Ministers have a right to answer questions when they are posed to them. The document from which I quote is headed: 'Segment from Press Conference, Parmelia Hotel, Perth, WA, 4th May 1972'. The questioner said: 
Prime Minister, Garden Island has been much in the minds of West Australians over the past few years. How much land will people be allowed to enter when the Naval Base is completed? Can you tell us if anything more has been decided? 
The answer by the Prime Minister indicated that he had taken a personal interest in this matter. However - this was mentioned by the honourable member for Hughes - he also said: 
So I gave instructions to the Navy that they ought to begin to be as generous as they possibly could be. We had. the Commonwealth Public Works Committee examining the problem, and they will shortly be submitting a report to us. And I also got the Minister for the Navy himself who became directly involved, and we have decided in the last few day.s, without actually moving to a final decision, to increase the size of the coastline that could be used from 7 to 10 miles out of the total 14 miles. And we've also decided to increase the acreage that could be used by civilians under the control of the Navy from 1,250 acres to 1,800 acres. 
My assessment of the information given to the Committee by the Department of the Navy on 18th April in the form of a letter is that it was public information. I really believe that the public relations officer of the Department of the Navy could have given copies of the letter to the Press throughout Australia after it had been received by the Commitee, and that the letter could have been printed in the national news media and broadcast on radio and television if the news media thought it worth while. 
Mention has been made of the fact that we took this evidence - this letter - in private. The honourable member for Hughes quoted the relevant section of the Public Works Committee Act 1969. On my interpretation of that section, which he read and which I am about to read, the information which was given to the Committee by the Department of the Navy and which was authorised by the Minister for the Navy and mentioned by the Prime Minister 16 days after it was written was neither private nor confidential. Let me read section 23 (2.) of the Public Works Committee Act. The side note says: 
Evidence to be given in public in respect of certain cases. 
The sub-section states: 
Where, in the opinion of the Committee, any evidence proposed to be given before, or the whole or a part of a document produced or proposed to be produced in evidence to, the Committee relates to a secret or confidential matter, the Committee may, and at the request of the witness giving the evidence or producing the document shall: 
take the evidence in private; or 
direct that the document, or the part of the document, be treated as confidential. 
The Department of the Navy did not mark this document as private. We, as a Committee, were not instructed to use this information as private or confidential information. We, as a Committee, did not decide between us that this information should be private and confidential. Since the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  made his contribution yesterday I have had a look at the Act, and my interpretation is that everything that has been done has been properly done. 
As the  Chairman  of the Committee has said, we, as members of the Committee, discussed this matter quite extensively in committee in this Parliament House. I agreed then, as I said earlier, that it ought to be brought to the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and other Ministers that they should not and must not preempt the decisions of the Public Works Committee. It has never been done before and it should not be done now. But in this case I believe that the Press could easily have been given this information, and the news media could be said to have preempted the final decisions of the Committee. 
The  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee went into the realm of speculation when he spoke about the possibility that information from the Department of the Navy could have indicated that rather than have more land available for public use at Garden Island, there could have been less. This, of course, would have been of real public interest, particularly to people in Western Australia. But I do not think that it would have been pf much interest to the Prime Minister, and therefore he should not have been accused as he has been tonight. No, I do not agree that the Prime Minister should be put in the stocks and threatened with being brought before the Bar of the House because he has transgressed, so far as the Public Works Committee is concerned. 
I feel that several errors have been made, not only by the members of the Committee but also by other people. I believe that if the Committee had decided that this information was confidential it should have made this decision public immediately so that all concerned would have known. I feel there is some justification for the answer to the question which the Prime Minister gave on 4th May because it was 16 days after the information had been conveyed to the Public Works Committee. I really do not see very much justification for this debate. I believe that it is a storm in a teacup. 
This Bill, from the point of view of national budgets and expenditure by governments, is quite small in impact, but its usefulness to the Australian nation, and to manufacturers more particularly, is of great importance as the then Minister for Social Services  (Mr Sinclair)  said when he introduced the legislation in 1967. There is a feeling in the manufacturing industry that it has not been consulted to the extent it would like to have been consulted. Today I received a telegram from the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures which reads as follows: 
Victorian Chamber of Manufactures gravely concerned at proposed new method of calculation of eligible industrial research and development expenditure inherent in moving base year proposals in current Bill. Request that passage of Bill be deferred to allow sufficient time for new proposals  based  on the findings of interdepartmental committee to be critically examined by all sections of industry. 
This was signed by 'Mawdsley,  President,  Victorian Chamber of Manufactures'. I am informed that a telegram was sent also to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  as well as senators. 
As 1 have said, as far as costs are concerned the Bill is not of great importance. I am surprised that we can find in the legislation this alteration in the base conception, because it is in this area that the smaller companies are vitally concerned. I believe that the amendment should have the same reflection in industry as the original legislation had. The original motive of the Government should remain the same in this amendment. That motive was to increase research and development in industry in Australia so that we could continually compete within Australia and compete with overseas manufacturing industries which desire to export their products to Australia. It was clear in 1967 when the Bill was introduced - the position is much the same today - that if industry does not innovate or carry out research and development procedures it will fall by the wayside. It would be impossible for Australia to go back to the bad old days when Australian manufacturing and mining companies felt that they had to go overseas at all times to look for these new processes, these new products, and pay heavy royalties for obtaining these processes and these products. Whilst in the manufacturing industry we still pay royalties, there has been a diminution of these payments in recent years. 
I would have hoped that the Government when introducing this Bill would have given greater incentives to the industries that have used the research and development grants in the past and would not have lessened the opportunity for these industries to qualify. I mentioned earlier that the base period is the matter which is causing the manufacturing industry most concern. I will try to expand on it a little later. It is true, of course, that prior to the encouragement given to the manufacturing industry in 1967, research and development was encouraged by the Government, but only by income tax concessions. It was found then, and it is realised now, that these concessions were not great enough to encourage the research and development that was required. 
It is interesting at this stage to point out to the House the increase in research and development in industry that has occurred since 1967. I refer to the last report of the Grants Board of 1970-71 which I have before me. The report indicates firstly that in 1967-68 51 companies participated in this form of assistance by the Government. I believe that because of the legislation that was introduced in 1967 the number was increased to 286 in 1968-69. The number of companies that received these grants increased to 531 in 1969-70 and 801 in 1970-71. So it is obvious that the initial assistance given by the Government encouraged the manufacturing and mining companies to do more about research than had been done hitherto. 
The total costs which include general grants plus selective grants are not as high, as I said at the outset. In 1967-68 the amount involved was $8. 296m; in 1968-69 it was $ 10.376m; and in 1969-70 it rose to $1 2.274m. In other words, there was a genuine increase in the assistance given to the industry because industry had assisted itself. In many cases, of course, private enterprise had set up laboratories and employed highly trained and qualified personnel to look after these facilities. In 1 967 the Government expressed concern about the royalties that were paid by Australian companies to overseas companies. It gave several reasons for introducing this form of legislation. First of all it said that it wanted to increase research and development so that we could compete with exports coming into Australia and also so that we could export to those areas near Australia where our export production would be acceptable. Another reason was that if the legislation were passed we would not have to depend on research and development from overseas and thus pay royalties. There was also a need to build up technically skilled manpower which was being trained in Australian universities and colleges and some of which was being driven overseas because opportunities were greater in overseas countries than they were in Australia. More particularly, the legislation was introduced to assist Australia in its production of defence equipment. I do not know whether this latter area has been explored to the full extent to which it ought to be explored. The Government should fully pursue the needs of Australian industry to produce our defence requirements. At the moment I am in touch with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  about certain limitations that the defence Service impose on Australian manufacturers, not because they cannot produce the goods - and the Minister for Defence is nodding in agreement - in quantity and quality but because of certain limitations. I am sure that the Minister for Defence will get me the answer to this problem very shortly. 
Therefore, the aims and objects of this Bill are very similar to those of the original legislation. But it is perhaps the calculation of eligible expenditure for research that creates the anomalies. I say that the method proposed in this Bill will curtail research and development which was encouraged by the original legislation introduced in 1967. The Minister in his second reading speech said that 808 companies had qualified for industrial research and development grants by June 1971. Of these 440 had performed no research during the original base year of 1965. The Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board in its report estimated that there has been a 64 per cent increase in highly trained technical personnel now being used in research and development and innovating within Australian companies for the benefit of Australia. The figures I have quoted, and particularly the increase in the number of companies and personnel involved, indicate the effectiveness of the original legislation. 
As I see it, the important part of the amendment indicates that research and development will now be averaged over 3 consecutive years, lt will be a rolling programme so that the Board which disburses the grants will be able to divide the 3 years expenditure by 3 and say to an individual company: 'This is the average you have spent over the last 3 years'. The original legislation used the base year 1965 as the base for calculations. The 440 companies which I have mentioned which had no research expenditure in 1965 always qualified for grants in some form or other. No matter whether their expenditure was increased in a given year or reduced in a given year they always qualified for some assistance by the Government through this industrial research and development grant. In future it will be impossible for the smaller companies particularly, and those companies that had reached a stable level of expenditure on research, to qualify. 
I have a letter from one of the manufacturers concerned of which I think I ought to read part to indicate what this company feels about this sort of change in the legislation. The company has attached a financial statement which I will not read. The company states: 
. that an organisation which has reached a stable level of expenditure of $50,000 by 1971 will receive no grant for the year ended 30th June 1975 if it continues to have expenditure at stable levels. 
To achieve the maximum grant, namely $25,000- 
Which is 50 per cent of the $50,000 allowed -  from 1973 onwards, it would be necessary to increase eligible expenditure from $50,000 in 1972 to $95,000 in 1973 and eventually in progressive rises to $152,778 in 1977. 
The company points out in the substance of its letter that if it does not achieve this expenditure it will not qualify to the extent that it would like to qualify. 1 contacted  Mr Scrivenor,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board. After having seen the letter from one of my constituents he wrote: 
I confirm that, based on the proposals contained in the amending Bill recently introduced into Parliament, the calculations submitted by the company in relation to expenditures and grants are correct . . . 
The  Chairman  went on to make a minor correction to something which was incorrect in the company's letter. Therefore I feel that I am really on stable ground when I talk about the fact that this base period is the one that is causing a good deal of discussion today in industry, and more particularly in manufacturing industry. This is the reason why the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures sent a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and copies of that telegram to other personnel in the Parliament. I would like the Minister concerned to have another look at the reasons why this alteration has been made in the base period. 
Let me say that I come from manufacturing industry and that I was a trained engineer many years ago and a member of the Institution of Engineers (Australia). I feel that this legislation - as the honourable member for Lang has said - will help large companies considerably because whilst they do budget research and development they can meet the needs of this amendment of the Bill by adding to their expenditure year by year. However, it must be borne in mind that if a smaller company endeavoured to increase expenditure year by year, concurrently it would also have to increase its organisational expenses and its tooling. It could well be that the whole basis of many medium and smaller companies would not allow them to meet such organisational expenditure or the costs involved in tooling and the like. Furthermore, the markets available to them, not only in Australia but also for exports, would not justify this increase in research and development that we want carried out in Australia. Once again I ask the Minister to examine these two aspects, namely, the base period and the reasons for the change, and to ensure that we are not endeavouring to encourage all companies to spend much more on research and development than is justified by the size of the company or by the opportunity it has for marketing its products. 
At the outset I would like to congratulate and thank His Excellency the Governor-General on his Speech on the occasion of the first session of this, the 28th Parliament. I speak not so much of the format of the Speech because to my mind that will react against Australia in the years ahead, but His Excellency's rendition was first class. I also want to congratulate the new members.  I  think there are sixteen of them on the Government side and some eight or nine on this side of the House. They will find that things get violent here at times, but by and large we are usually fairly good friends personally. My electors find this difficult to assess why this is so but it is a fact - a fortunate fact indeed.  I  congratulate particularly the mover and seconder of the motion - the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Matthews)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  They have already been on their feet on the second day of this new Parliament and it is not an easy thing, as they indeed know, to stand here and to talk to the critics on their side and to those on our side of the House.  I  should like to congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on achieving the high office of  Speaker  of this House. You have an onerous task ahead. The position of  Mr Speaker  is one to which you have aspired for a long time and I hope that your sojourn as  Mr Speaker  is a happy but very short one. 
As the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said in his second reading speech, this debate refers to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1972 and makes particular reference to the maximum contingent liability, which presently stands at $500m. The Government and its advisers want to increase the maximum contingent liability to $750m. As previous speakers have said, it has been the practice for this Parliament over the years since 1956 to increase the Corporation's contingent liability with such Bills as this. Initially the Export Payments Insurance Corporation had a contingent liability of $50m when it was established in 1956. This sum has been increased quite regularly because of the diversity of activities of the Corporation and the fact that it was able, through its activities, to assist exporters. 
I believe that there are one or two points concerned with Australian exports which the Minister should examine. I shall refer to those shortly. In past debates I have talked about EPIC, as it is generally known. In May 1970 I encouraged the then Government to increase EPIC's contingent liability from $200m to $300m because then, as now, the Corporation's liabilities were increasing at an enormous rate. The maximum contingency was increased further in 1971 from $300m to $500m. Now the Minister desires a further increase to $750m. 
As I have said, the diversity of the Corporation has increased enormously over the years. Particular reference was made by the then Minister to the fact that the Corporation was doing no business for exporters from Australia in Papua New Guinea and other Territories of Australia. Included in the Act then - it remains in the Act - was provision for the Corporation to insure exports to Papua New Guinea. I think that what I had to say on 12th May 1970 on this matter bears repetition. I am reported in Hansard as saying: 
I am surprised that the original legislation and the amendments that have been made over the years have not included provision that insurance of goods exported from Australia to Papua and New Guinea should be on the same basis as Japan's arrangements for looking after its traders and manufacturers. I should think that the proposed amendments relate more particularly to requests by industry in Australia to make certain that they do trade in Papua and New Guinea on equal terms with Japanese manufacturers, German manufacturers and the like. I am pleased that the Minister has seen fit to plug this loophole. 
Anybody - any member of this House or any trader - who went to Papua New Guinea in those years would have seen, and no doubt would still see, the amount of goods sold in Port Moresby, Rabaul, Lae and other centres in Papua New Guinea which come from Japan, Germany and other countries. Of course, the exporters from the original country are supported by an insurance corporation much the same as the one that we have established in Australia. 
A good look at the reports of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation indicate the type of business that the Corporation now covers in ever increasing amounts. For instance, business in the metals section of the Corporation increased by 140 per cent, the amounts being $50.3m in 1970 to a grand total of $120m in 1971. According to the Corporation's report this was further increased during 1972 to $ 137.7m. These are staggering increases and one can only commend the then Government which introduced legislation setting up the Corporation, and the fact that the Corporation has carried out its work in a very favourable fashion. So on the surface there is need each year for the Government and the Parliament to admit that the contingent liabilities of the Corporation should be increased and no doubt, as the Minister has said, there is a good argument for the increase of its contingent liability from $500m to $750m on this occasion. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that at the end of December 1972 the actual contingent liability stood at $41 6m. However, private members of the Parliament do not have these figures available to them. We must have recourse to the reports of the Corporation and the last one, of course, was the report for the year ended 30th June 1972. In a debate of this nature I believe that this Government - as was the case with the past Government - should give its private members the same form of information that is available to the Minister. We are debating the fact that the Minister has said that the contingent liability at December last year was $4 16m whereas the only amount that we have comes from the last report of the Corporation for the year ended 30th June last year. My assessment from the 1972 report indicates contingent liability for the commercial activities of the Corporation of $375.3m. But if one adds to that the Government account, a further amount of $169m is involved. It would be reasonable to assume that if these 2 amounts were added together the contingent liability of the Corporation should be increased to the amount mentioned by the Minister. However, I had a further look at the reports and I find that the Government account consists mainly of primary produce and, as 1 understand the reports of the Corporation, sales of wheat, meat and dairy products are being made to countries on a long term credit basis which in effect is good for producers in Australia. It is my belief, however, that when wheat is exported to a regular importer on a long term credit basis the wheat can be consumed overnight but there is still a liability on the part of the importing country to repay the amount required for that wheat. Therefore, what this Government, and Australia in effect, is doing is giving a long term loan to the importing country for a consumer item. 
I believe that there should be a split-up between the commercial activities of the Corporation and the government activities of the Corporation if the major portion of the government activities consists of consumer items. A quick look at the figures concerning the points I have raised indicates that the contingent liability on meat insurances during 1970 amounted to $ 11.6m. In 1971 the contingent liability increased to $ 14.4m and in 1972 to $38.5m. Therefore, on meat alone the insurance was increased by almost 4 times. The reports of the Corporation indicate that there was a contingent liability on wheat insurances of $lm in 1970, $32.4m in 1971 and $8 1.9m in 1972. In effect there was an increase in insurances for the export of wheat of about 82 to one. I have no doubt that the amount of wheat and meat sold in the years I have mentioned, perhaps with the exception of the latter part of 1972, has increased and has still to be paid for by the importing countries. This confirms my belief that Australia is giving a long term loan to the importing countries. There ought to be a better way of granting loans to these countries rather than sell them produce of this nature. We could indicate to them that we will give them long term credit. It would be far better for the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to agree that a loan be granted to the country concerned. 
Dairy produce is another item that has shown a tremendous increase. For the year 1970 the contingent liability on government account was $19.4m. In 1971 that amount rose to $27.5m and in 1972 it is shown at $36.2m. In other words, the contingent liability for this consumer item has doubled in 2 years. I have selected only 3 items from the various reports to indicate that we are kidding ourselves when we say that we are exporting these goods to the importing countries and helping them. Of course we are helping them. But I believe it would be far better to grant loans to them so that they in turn could pay for the wheat with our loans. This is, in fact, what we are doing and I think we ought to say so. The danger, of course, is that the food we export is consumed in a very short time but the importing country or the importer concerned still has to pay for this food. 
The reports of the Corporation indicate also that most exports, particularly exports of primary produce and minerals, can be sold for cash. I believe that the officers of the Corporation should have a further and a deeper look at the possibility of selling these goods for cash rather than granting these loans to the countries concerned. 
Actually, as the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  has said there is a growing compulsion throughout the world to sell all goods on credits, and long term credits at that. In fact the granting of credits for imports with many countries is of vital concern and is a vital factor for importing countries. I view with alarm the fact that the Corporation has said in its most recent report that 9 contracts still have between 5 years and 10 years to continue. I should like to know whether these contracts are for consumer, engineering or manufactured items. Eighteen contracts are still outstanding between 3 years and 5 years and 58 contracts between 1 and 3 years. The Corporation has said in its reports that Australian producers must match the competition of other exporting nations. -I doubt whether a proper assessment has been made by the exporters on the one hand and by the Corporation on the other hand. In other words, I believe that exporters do indicate to the Corporation that to obtain this export business the exporter will have to grant this credit to cover 3, 4, 5 or more years. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development does not believe, as I do not believe, that exporting in this form is in the best interests of the major manufacturing countries. In fact I am pleased to learn that the OECD is now actively engaged with exporting countries in an endeavour to rationalise the giving of credit. The OECD has indicated that as yet very little has been achieved in this respect. But I do consider that its efforts should be supported by the Australian Parliament so that manufacturing countries, exporting countries and producing countries receive a fair deal as well as those countries which import on this long term basis. 
The honourable member for Wentworth has said that the  President  of the World Bank also has become very concerned about this giving of credit by exporting countries. The  President  of the World Bank said recently in Chile in dealing with international credits, no credits to Chile itself: 
Since the mid-1950s publicly guaranteed debt has been growing at about 14 per cent per annum. At the end of 1971 it stood at over $60 billion and the annual debt service exceeded $5 billion. 
I have no doubt that the  President  of the World Bank was referring to American dollars but those figures indicate the extent to which credit is given and the debt involved with respect to importing countries. The  President  of the World Bank said further that the annual debt rate of 14 per cent was double the rate at which export earnings grew and, of course, the servicing costs increased proportionally. What he was saying was that the $5 billion for servicing of the present debt would increase as this practice of giving credit for consumer and other items increased. If this practice continued, he felt, world financiers would need to intervene in this granting of credit by export countries to those who import. One needs only to look at the figure of 14 per cent per annum to realise that this form of credit giving cannot continue to increase year by year. I do hope that the Minister for Overseas Trade will look at the figures with respect to EPIC before the Government finally decides that EPIC's contingent liability should be increased from $500m to $750m. 
Revaluation has been discussed tonight by speakers on both sides of the chamber. The general impression is that if we have to depress our currency the present exports of the various commodities covered by the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation can be maintained, but if our currency is left at its present value our exports will decrease. If the latter reason is the probable one, it is quite obvious that no need exists for the contingent liability of the Corporation to be increased from $500m to $750m. Here is another question at which the Minister will need to look and the Government must relate its decision to whether this country should devalue its currency or whether our currency should remain at its present level in relation to other world currencies. However, generally, over the years I have supported the need to increase the contingent liabilities of the Corporation and, by and large, I support the contention now. But I do believe that the Minister faces more problems today with respect to the Corporation than that body has experienced hitherto. I hope that he will give to some of the contributions made by honourable members a good deal more thought than has been necesssary in the past. 
1 address a question to the Prime Minister. Why is the present Australian Government forcing Papua New Guinea to borrow its loan funds from overseas and limiting Australia's contribution to a miserly $10m - that is, United States dollars, the currency of one of the hill-billy group? What is causing this lack of confidence by the Government in Papua New Guinea which apparently started after the Prime Minister visited that country this year? Why are the Prime Minister and the Government flying in the face of popular opinion in Australia and Papua New Guinea by forcing that country into world markets and forcing independence on it, especially when it has previously accepted help, guidance, assistance and advice from previous Australian governments? 
I address a question to the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade. I have been wanting to ask this question for weeks. I am sure the Acting Minister should give it all his attention. 
 I ask the Treasurer whether he yet knows the areas to be canvassed by his Prices Justification Tribunal when consideration is given to the fact that since 1966 government transport fares have Increased by 66.9 per cent, local government rates by 63.6 per cent, postal and telephone charges by 41.1 per cent and radio and television licences by 34.4 per cent, whereas in the same period, that is from 1966, prices for household appliances have fallen by 1.2 per cent and food prices generally have risen by only 28.6 per cent. Obviously, the Tribunal will be looking at all costs where increases have been the greatest and a burden on the people and, therefore, these must include government expenditure and charges. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many wives of Government employees have accompanied their husbands on trips out of Australia since December 1972. (2) What was the cost of the public purse of trips by (a) Ministers' wives and families and (b) wives of civil servants during the period. 
Does the Minister for Transport consider that he can take over the Victorian Railways for $9.6m and one man, or is the man concerned to be a dictator of transport in Victoria? Why does the Commonwealth need to supervise the letting of contracts, the signing of contracts, the supervision of work and approval of jobs in that State? Is this just further duplication and thus extra cost to the taxpayer in order to appease the socialist left? 
I address a question to the Treasurer. In answer to questions, the Treasurer has talked' of money m'arket manipulators in Australia. But I ask him: What sort of manipulation is it when the Government, through the Reserve' Bank of Australia, deliberately sells government bonds in order to debase everyone else's money standard? By this manipulation, has the Government reduced the bond value, thus, in theory, increasing the yield? By so doing, is it forcing the whole range of financial operators, especially saving banks, to follow this yield by increasing their interest rates. This is a diabolical scheme and has never been done by a worthy Treasurer of this country since Federation. 
This Bill relates to the bringing of Papua New Guinea into self-government. As the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  has said, 4 Bills are being debated cognately. The basic intention of these Bills is to ensure that 
Papua New Guinea attains self-government by 1 December next. We on this side of the House are in agreement with that intention simply because it is a decision which we made last year when in government and which has been ratified by the present Government. However, I feel that the present Government is forcing Papua New Guinea into an international void by pushing it too fast towards independence. This has been done not in legislative form but in the form of statements made by the Minister at various times this year. The statements were made not to the House but to newspapers and the like. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, said that the Bills were more symbolic than substantive. Certainly the Bills are very symbolic because a country, for which we have had a tremendous responsibility for a number of years - a United Nations trust responsibility - is being brought towards selfgovernment. We see the fruition of the work done by previous governments and ratified by the present Government. The statement that the decision is not substantive is one with which I cannot agree. First of all, the country will be brought to self-government. I believe that it is ready for it. But to force it into this international void of independence early next year - I believe this is the Government's proposal - is certainly substantive. I am certain that we will get a reflection of the Government's decision in the months ahead; in 1974 we will feel the results of what this Government proposes to do. 
I believe that there is no sincerity in what the Minister has said. He has informed the Press rather than the Parliament. He and his Party feel that unless and until they get rid of this responsibility they will be branded by the Third World as colonialists. Nothing is further from the truth. I believe that the nations of the Third World, in particular the African and Arab nations, have told this Government to get rid of Papua New Guinea and the responsibilities which the Government has for it. I believe that this Government has acceded to that request and said: 'We will make certain that Chief Minister Somare, his Ministers and his Government reach independence in 1974'. For many years past the Government of Papua New Guinea has needed the advice, guidance and assistance given by previous administrations. I believe that it will need the same help for at least several years in the future. When my Party was in government we gave that help willingly because it was our responsibility. No political gains were to be made by any government in Australia which was helping Papua New Guinea. It was a job which had to be done as a responsibility to the whole world and because the United Nations had signified that Australia should do this job. I believe that the work which has been taking place from early post-war years should continue for at least 2 or 3 years. 
Earlier this year - I believe it was in March or April - the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  introduced 2 Bills concerning overseas loans to be raised by the Government of Papua New Guinea. From memory, the first loan was for $40m. The Australian Government made a loan of approximately J 10m at cheap interest rates to the Government of Papua New Guinea. However, the balance had to be obtained overseas and it is my understanding that we advised the Government of Papua New Guinea that deutsche marks would be available if it applied for them. In the economic area we are forcing the Government of Papua New Guinea to go on to the open market to obtain loans when our coffers in Australia are full and overflowing. It was my deep regret earlier this year that Australia did not see fit to make these loans available in full at cheap interest rates to a government that is endeavouring with our assistance to bring its country into the 20th century. 
I believe that the present Australian Government is endeavouring to dictate policies to and the future of the Government of Papua New Guinea. For proof of this statement, we need only to read reports of the dispute that arose in connection with the airlines policy in Papua New Guinea and the problems in that area. The present Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  made it quite clear to everybody in Australia that he rigorously opposed Ansett Airlines of Australia having any truck with an airline to be set up in Papua New Guinea. Is self-government as envisaged by the Australian Government a means by which we can dictate our form of independence and our policies to the Government of Papua New Guinea? I say that it must not be. I feel realIy pleased that the Government of Papua New Guinea ultimately made its own decision on the airlines problem. The difficulty in this matter highlighted the deteriorating relations between the Australian Government and the Government and people of Papua New Guinea. I believe that our present policy should be carried out, as the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  said earlier today, more by way of listening to Ministers of the Government of Papua New Guinea and in advising, guiding and helping them, as has been the practice in the past. 
We read in the newspapers - I cannot confirm what I am about to say, but I believe it to be correct - that militant trade union officials were castigated on at least 2 occasions by Ministers of the Government of Papua New Guinea for interfering in union matters in that country. We are quite wrong to a.'low Australians to interfere with the internal affairs of Papua New Guinea. I believe that the Government of that country should make independent decisions regarding its airlines and its trade union relations with management and the like. If it asks us for advice, we should give it willingly and without charge. But until and unless the Government of Papua New Guinea reaches the point where it asks for that advice, we should let it tread its steps first to self-government and ultimately to independence in its own way. 
I feel certain that there is in Australia a rising feeling of opinion that the present Australian Government is forcing independence on Papua New Guinea. There is a general uneasiness in Australia and most obviously in that country about the weakening of ties between the 2 countries. The uneasy feeling is held that the Australian Government is casting adrift its responsibilities with respect to Papua New Guinea. We are severing the umbilical cord between our 2 nations without any real reason for such action except that a Labor Government is now in power in Australia and people and governments throughout the world obviously are criticising that Labor Government for the continuing colonial trends or tendencies with respect to Papua New Guinea. 
I know that Chief Minister Somare is suspicious of the Minister for External Territories even though he is a nice fellow.  Mr Somare  is suspicious of him because of some of the statements that he has made this year. The Minister is reported in the 'Age' of 3 April of this year as saying that: 
Independence for Papua New Guinea would be little more than a tidying up exercise as independence flows on readily from self government. 
This statement indicates not only to Australians but also to the people of Papua New Guinea that there is very little difference between self government and independence. But in fact we heard the previous Minister for External Territories, the honourable member for Kooyong, say that there were certain areas in Papua New Guinea that still . have not been tidied up. With the attainment of self-government in Papua New Guinea Australia will still look after defence and foreign affairs but there is the matter of internal security. The Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  made a statement to the House of Assembly and the present Prime Minister quoted from it in a speech he made within the last 12 months. In a speech which he made on 9 May 1972 and which is reported in Hansard at page 2203 the Prime Minister, when talking about selfgovernment and independence for Papua New Guinea, said: 
It is certain that the assumption of an increasing measure of responsibility will accelerate the desire and ability to accept total responsibility. In this sense it is true that the people of New Guinea will decide their own timetable for independence. 
That is a straightforward statement. Those words were used last year by the Leader of the Opposition who is now the Prime Minister of Australia. In other words the people of Papua New Guinea would decide when they should reach independence, not the Minister or the Government in Australia. I have already quoted what the Minister for External Territories said on 3 April this year. He went on to say: 
You will have deduced from what I have said that the Australian Government does not favour a long interval between self-government and independence, . . . 
There is no mention in that statement of the Government of Papua New Guinea. There is only mention of the Australian Government. That statement is in contradistinction to what the Prime Minister said on 9 May last year. I ask the Minister for External Territories: What are we doing to this country in forcing it quickly into independence when obviously the people are not ready for it? There is no mention of Papua New Guinea in the statement made by the Minister and reported in the Age' of 3 April this year. There is only mention of what the Australian Government wants. I deduce from that that the Australian Government wants to get out of its responsibility as soon as possible. It wants to throw the Government of Papua New Guinea to the wolves. It wants to throw that Government on to the international arena as far as foreign affairs, defence, internal security and currency are concerned. I do not have any notes on currency but it is my belief, having been in New Guinea from 4 to 6 times in 14 years, that New Guinea uses the same currency as does Australia. What are we doing as far as currency in Papua New Guinea is concerned? We have revalued the Australian dollar twice since December last year. 
Three times, as the honourable member for Berowra has reminded me - because there was a devaluation of the United States dollar. In other words, on 3 occasions we have affected the purchasing power and selling ability of the people in Papua New Guinea. We have a currency that is highly sophisticated. Australia's currency is recognised throughout the world as a very solid currency. But how do our revaluations affect the spending power of the people in Papua New Guinea? How do they affect their ability to import goods which the people in that country so sorely need? We have done nothing about this. In fact when the decisions on revaluations were made I think, from memory, that 2 Ministers of the Government made the decision. Therefore they did not discuss this very vital problem with the people, the Ministers, or the Parliament of Papua New Guinea. 
I believe that this Government ought to do much more than has been done in the past in discussing these problems with the Ministers and with the House of Assembly before decisions of these sorts are made. I said earlier and I repeat that I believe the present Government is being very selfish and self.opiniated about these decisions in saying that something will flow from them and it hopes it will be good. This is not the way to run our relations with Papua New Guinea which has depended on Australia for aid, assistance and guidance since the early post-war years. We all realise that the Chief Minister from Papua New Guinea came to Australia for discussions to be held from 16 to 18 January last. As a result, a joint statement was issued on 17 January which, in part, said: 
. assured the Chief Minister that Australia would follow the timetable agreed upon by previous Australian governments for self government on 1 December 1973 or as soon as possible thereafter. 
We cannot cavil at that because the decision was made by the previous Government. In other words, we entirely agree with it. However, the statement went on to say that Aus tralia would work towards independence early in 1974. No mention was made in the statement that Chief Minister Somare would agree with this. Finally, the statement indicated  Mr Somare's  lack of enthusiasm by stating: 
During the discussions the Chief Minister emphasised that until Papua New Guinea had progressed further towards self government his Government would be reluctant to enter into any firm commitment on a date for independence. 
As I have said, there was no enthusiasm, no agreement at all, on the part of  Mr Somare.  He wanted time to sort out the problems that he knew from his experience would result from self government coming to his country on 1 December next. 
In fact, the Chief Minister wrote an article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Herald' on 12 March this year in which he said: 
Independence is a word that, in a colony, should be a word of hope and promise. 
How true that is. As far as  Mr Somare,  his Ministers, the Parliament and the people of Papua New Guinea are concerned, independence should be a word of hope and promise. The article goes on to say: 
But to many in Papua New Guinea it is a dirty word. To us independence is a new word and that in itself is sufficient to worry about. They fear that all Australians will leave when independence comes, taking with them .their moneys, businesses and expertise. 
Here is a man - the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea - imploring Australia not to throw them to the wolves, not to cast them aside, and we have done nothing about it since he wrote this article for the Melbourne Herald'. All we have done has been to say that independence must come early in 1974. There has been no discussion with the Government of Papua New Guinea in relation to the date of independence or in relation to the decision. Yet he, the Chief Minister, has all these problems and realises that Papua New Guinea could be in dire trouble unless Australia or some other country gives them guidance, aid and assurance. 
I wonder whether that country will be Australia. I heard the honourable member for Kooyong say this morning that certain negotiations are taking place with Japan. It could be Japan that will provide Papua New Guinea with the aid and assurances that we as a country have given them in the past. I read quite recently - I think it was last week - that a company in Japan is setting up a shipbuilding yard at Madang. This could easily be the first step for any country in taking over the responsibilities that Australia accepted as a United Nations trust responsibility after the Second World War. 
Many matters require decision and assistance by the Australian Government. I refer, for example, to internal security. The honourable member for Kooyong mentioned that this morning, but the matter was specifically excluded in the statement made by Chief Minister Somare to his Government in September last year. There is the matter of currency. Obviously, Australia is affecting the ability of Papua New Guinea to buy, sell and trade because we are making the decisions regarding currency. These things cannot be left in the melting pot. The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  has a responsibility to himself, to his Government and certainly to the people of Australia to do a lot more about these matters than he has done hitherto. 
I direct a question to the Acting Treasurer during the temporary absence of the Treasurer. What sort of anomalies are involved when the Government is trying, by stringent measures, to reduce domestic liquidity at one end of the economy, that is, the private sector, while simultaneously pumping money in at the other end, the non-producing end, with a 19 per cent lift in the public sector? What does the Minister call this type of economic control? I call it chaotic economic management. 
I propose to devote my attention to the estimates for the Department of the Treasury during this debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74. I have found it very interesting to look through past Hansard reports and see what the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  had to say on previous occasions about the expenditure of federal money throughout the States of the Commonwealth. In fact, I had a look at a speech he made on 10 September 1968 in which he said that he was then - I think he still is - a federalist at heart, although on looking at the Budget figures on this occasion one finds that he has restricted expenditure by the States to such an extent that they have found it almost impossible to find the moneys to carry out the work they have to do. In fact in those days the Treasurer thought that the then government was mean and without tolerance. He indicated the real responsibilities of the State governments. As I have said, the speech to which I am referring was made by the present Treasurer on 10 September 1968. It can be found at page 854 of Hansard on that date. The Treasurer said: 
 I want to talk about the lack of understanding, lack of sympathy, lack of tolerance . . . that exists throughout the federation . . . 
He went through various aspects of this lack of tolerance and then went on to say: 
Because of the lack of proper, sympathetic understanding of the needs of the States, the States are continually being forced to have recourse to indirect taxes as the form of raising additional revenue. 
The Treasurer is not present in the chamber tonight. I must concede that he has just returned from representing Australia in Kenya. If the Treasurer were present I would ask him what sort of sympathy and tolerance he has shown in the Budget for the State governments. The Treasurer has presented a money grubbing Budget, which indicates that the Government is a money grubbing government. It appears to me that the Government is endeavouring to obtain as much money as it can from the people. It has diverted money from the States. It has diverted money from expenditure on defence and in other areas in which normally Australian people would expect it to be expended. It is obvious that there are very good reasons why a socialist government, which is what we have in Australia, would want to do this. 
I notice that the Minister for Housing and the Minister for Works  (Mr Les Johnson)  is smiling benignly. I had a look at the estimates for the Department of Housing and found that in 1972-73 the Budget appropriation for housing was $126m. The Budget appropriation for housing in 1973-74 is over $570m. The Budget appropriation for housing has been increased to more than fourfold. In other words A. V. Jennings and all the other housing concerns in Australia will be eliminated by the Minister taking charge of housing production in Australia. He and his minions want to produce all the houses for the people of Australia in the areas in which they want to build them. 
They will tell the people of Australia where they have to go, what type of housing they will live in, what they will do with it, how much a week they will pay for it and so on. That is not the wish of the prudent and hard working people of Australia. They want to be able to decide for themselves where they want to go, what type of house they live in, die area where their children should be educated and where they will live in future years. This socialist Government has already decided what it will do insofar as housing is concerned in Australia. I repeat that it is a money grubbing Government and the Budget is a money grubbing Budget that is designed to take money from any source wherever possible and divert it to government use in Australia. 
The Treasurer talked in 1968 about tolerance, sympathy and understanding, but since becoming Treasurer his attitude has been completely contrary to what it was in 1968. In 1968 he also said - I agree with him - that the States have more responsibilities and more people to look after than has the Commonwealth Government. How right he was, because they have to look after education and health - or should do - as well as look after the fire service, the roads, irrigation and all the other things that happen within the State boundaries, but the present Government is prepared to take over these responsibilities and negative the activities of the State governments forever. 
The present Treasurer also said - this is something which I have already said - that the States are responsible in such significant fields as education, health, public transport, power, irrigation and roads. It is laughable when we hear the present Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  say what he will do with the railways in Victoria and elsewhere. The Minister says that the Commonwealth Government will give Victoria $9.6m provided that the Commonwealth Government has a man on the commission for the transport system in Victoria, that he can determine where the contracts go and at what price the contracts are let. 
I can hardly believe after reading the debate on the Estimates in 1968 that the present Treasurer said the things which I have recounted. He talked about the hundreds of schools that State governments had to construct. He talked about the hundreds of locomotives that had to be purchased and where they would be obtained. I believe those are the responsibilities of State governments and not of the Federal Government. On page 855 of the same speech the present Treasurer said - and I agree with him - that State governments spend threequarters of the public capital expenditure throughout the Commonwealth. This is what was done in those days and this is what should be done in 1973-74, 1974-75 and so on. The present Treasurer has had an amazing transformation of thought on the uses that State governments appealed to in the past and will look to in the future. One only has to look at statement No. 2 in the Budget papers to see what the Treasurer has done. I refer to the Budget domestic outlay. The increase in capital expenditure on domestic outlay over last year is 40.6 per cent. This Government and the people of Australia are wondering about inflation. One only has to look at the Budget papers to realise what are the causes of inflation. Statement No. 2 states: 
The rapid acceleration in capital expenditures on gods and services, which are estimated to rise by over two-fifths in 1973-74 compared with little change in 1972-73; 
Is it any wonder that we on this side of the House talk about the extent of capital expenditure by the present Government and the reasons why we are in this serious and raging inflation situation? It is because of the Federal Government. Statement No. 2 also shows that net advances other than to the States increased by 67.5 per cent over last year. I hope those people who are listening will hear me send out this call. These are the reasons why we are in the inflationary situation we are in today. The present Government is spending and will continue to spend such large amounts of money from the public purse in Canberra. The money is not being spent by the States or by local governments but is being spent by this Government in Canberra. I have not time to deal with all the matters because 10 minutes is not long for a politician to speak. I have a chart prepared by the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service indicating some of the reasons for inflation. It shows that average weekly earnings between 1964-65 and 1971-72 increased by 68.2 per cent. The consumer price index, which one would expect- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is on but rare occasions that I speak in an adjournment debate and that is why I decided not to yield to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I wish to speak on a subject about which all of us have a deep feeling. I refer to the crisis in the Middle East. For the last 2 days I have endeavoured to ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question. Those who observe honourable members rising in this House would have seen that I have been doing this. To make sure that the question is on record I propose to read what I was wanting to ask the Prime Minister. This is the question: 
I ask the Prime Minister why he stood up before a Jewish audience earlier this year and told them that the sovereignty of Israel was not negotiable and he now says that he will follow a neutral, an evenhanded policy in the Middle East? Is this the best we can do as an Australian Government when United Nations observers have said who the aggressors are in the Middle East? Or does he not remember that it was an Australian,  Dr Evatt,  who presided over the United Nations when it voted to create a separate state of Israel? If he believes that Israel's sovereignty is not negotiable, a few words of sympathy and understanding would help. 
My purpose tonight is to endeavour to ensure that the Prime Minister, or the Government, is forthcoming so far as this real problem is concerned. I am making a belated plea as a Christian to ensure that we in Australia do a little more than we have done in the past so far as this crisis is concerned. 
There is not any doubt in my mind that the Jewish people and the Arab nations have taken a battering over a number of years because of the crisis in the Middle East, but I make this plea on 3 grounds. The first is that in the United Nations in 1947 the countries of the world decided to create this separate state of Israel. Coincidentally, this forum was presided over by a sound Australian,  Dr Evatt.  All member countries of the United Nations except the Arab nations and, 1 believe, some of the communist countries, supported the proposal. The second point I want to make - it was mentioned in the question I read earlier - is that the United Nations observers have reported to the United Nations that the recent war was initiated by the Arab countries. I do not want to incite the minds of people in this House or of the people of Australia. All I want is to get some assurance that the present crisis was incited by the Arab countries. Then we ought to be able to say something positive about it. I am neutral so far as the decision is concerned but I believe that we in Australia should find out what the problems are, and if the present conflagration was initiated by Arab countries I think we ought to say so. I believe that this small country of 3 million Jewish people with a territory of 35,000 square miles ought to be supported by people in Australia which is so far away from their country. We helped to create the state of Israel and therefore I believe that we ought to support it in some form or other. The third point I want to raise relates to the report that we ali read in the newspapers yesterday that Israel's Prime Minister,  Mrs Golda  Meir, stated: 
When we get an invitation to the ceasefire table we will go there without any pre-conditions. 
To me this seems to be a clarion call to the peace loving nations of the world either to get the Israeli nation to the peace table as well as the Arab countries or to at least give support to the country which obviously wants to go to the peace table. It is my impression from the news reports that if the Israeli people cannot get the other 8 Arab nations to the peace table they will fight like mad when they are attacked. I guess that we cannot blame them as individuals for that. As I said earlier, it is not my purpose to take sides. I am not sure of the cause of the present trouble except that there has been a problem between the Arab nations and Israel since 1947 when the new Israeli state was created by the United Nations in New York. As I understand it some 3 million Jewish people are working hard in an endeavour to make the country fertile. I am told that they are very successful. Not having been there I cannot confirm this information but it is my belief that they have done a wonderful job. They should be used as an illustration of what sound working people can do when they set their hearts to it. They have rehabilitated deserts. They have made the country fertile. It is my understanding that they have resettled at least 600,000 refugees from various countries in Europe and from Arab nations. For this alone they ought to get support from peace loving countries throughout the world. 
As I have said, the United Nations observers reported that the Arab countries initiated the present war. Of course there have been wars in the Middle East area for too long. If there is initiation of war by a group of countries or by one country I think that the Australian people deserve to be told the facts. The recent war was started on the most holy day of the Jewish people of the 365 days of the year. All business in Jerusalem had stopped. There was no business activity whatever. No work at all was being done because it was their holy day. All the schools were closed and I am told that unfortunately so were the radio stations so that the people of Israel were unable to hear that fighting was taking place on their borders. That is why I ask the Prime Minister and the Australian Government to be a little more forthcoming to show that the Australian Government and people have some sympathy and understanding for this problem. I did not want to take the time of the honourable member for Mackellar and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  but I felt that as I had seen you,  Mr Speaker,  earlier this morning I should not yield to them. 
The subject of the new and permanent Parliament House has been raised on 3 or possibly 4 occasions since I 'have been in Parliament. I will not bring to my speech the oratorical splendour of the speech of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  but at least on this occasion I do have an opportunity to speak, while on the previous occasions there was a 2-hour debate and this opportunity was not presented to me. At the outset I think I ought to say that I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I think his motion should be read because it illuminates the problem that besets the Parliament. This is what the honourable member for Corio presented to the House on 23 August last: 
This House is of the opinion that - 
the site for the New and Permanent Parliament House should be determined forthwith; 
a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter, and 
planning for the new House should commence immediately. 
I believe that the reason the honourable member for Corio put his motion in that form on 23 August was to ensure that a decision was achieved. However, in the debate today no doubt it will be seen that the amendment of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  will be carried and we will be back to square one. We will send the amendment over to the Senate and the Senate will reject the amendment as it has rejected these things on so many occasions. We all know that the last time the problem of the new and permanent Parliament House problem was referred to the Senate it voted for Capital Hill 46 votes to two. The same situation will arise as a result of the amendment to this motion. It will go to the Senate and the Senate will reject it as it has in the past. So, I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Corio for showing us the way at least to avoid the prospect of this matter being pigeonholed for another 12 months or 18 months after which we would debate it again and again achieve no result. 
I am surprised that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has changed his mind, as was mentioned by the Minister for Labour. I will not castigate him to the same extent as the honourable member for Hindmarsh did, but I will read some of the things he said in 1969. The honourable member for Reid started speaking at 9.47 p.m. and his speech appears in Hansard at page 1794. He was talking about the bureaucrats and said: 
On the first occasion I said that the National Capital Development Commission was trying to use the Parliament as a rubber stamp. 
This is what characterised his speech that day. He had been to Washington and he had seen a lovely view of the Lincoln Memorial from various aspects. He went on to say: 
I remember how impressive it looked. I can envisage something similar in Canberra if the new parliament house is built on Capital Hill. 
People will be able to look along Commonwealth Avenue or King's Avenue and see a site similar to that of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. 
The Minister for Labour interjected and asked: 'Who said that?' It was said by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. One can hardly believe it, reading it in the cold light of this day. The present Minister for Urban and Regional Development went on to say on page 1796 of Hansard of 14 May 1969: 
I hope that members of this Parliament will exercise their democratic rights and determine that the new parliament house should be built on Capital Hill. Then we will be able to plan correctly. 
How right the Minister was then and how wrong he is today in instituting this amendment to the motion moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I think a lot of things should be brought to the light of day concerning the new and permanent parliament house. Very few people on the Government side realise that when we came back for the 28th Parliament in February of this year 3 new members on this side of the House, because of lack of room, did their work for 6 months in the party room. This is the sort of arrangement that has to be put up with when one reaches Opposition and a new Government takes over. But it is all brought about by the fact that there is a lack of capacity in this building to look after the interests of all members of Parliament. As the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  said earlier. there will be more members of Parliament in Canberra in the years ahead. Can anyone envisage just how they will fit into this chamber on the one hand and into the. Senate on the other hand. I agree with the view expressed in 1969 by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, when he was the honourable member for Reid, that 7 avenues lead directly to Capital Hill and the 2 main avenues, Commonwealth Avenue and Kings Avenue, indicate just where the parliament house should be. 
In the evidence taken by the Committee set up by the previous Government it was mentioned that we should follow what Burley Griffin had initiated in 1923. I believe that after 50 years there are good reasons why we can alter at least this part of the concept that Burley Griffin had then. Evidence was given to that Committee that there were no engineers or sociologists in this Parliament. I have said subsequently and I repeat that I have been a chartered engineer since 1936. Therefore the evidence presented to that Committee was incorrect. I believe that the Committee should have ascertained whether there were in the Parliament sociologists, engineers or other people concerned with the erection or siting of the new parliament house. The evidence given to that Committee was incorrect. The Committee based its findings on a wrong premise. I agreed with the minority report put to the Parliament by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who is now the Minister for the Capital Territory. I believe they were right in putting forward the minority report. I believe it was a correct report. They are now supporting what they contended in those days. 
It seems to me that a few words ought to be said about the reasons for the new parliament house being established on Capital Hill. The reasons are obvious. There are 7 avenues leading to Capital Hill. Once people who wish to see their representatives get on to these avenues they can take a beeline to Capital Hill because they know that their representatives will be there. The area surrounding Capital Hill is almost 160 acres - at least it was before the ring road was constructed there I believe that the Camp Hill site is only 47 acres. Furthermore, East Block and West Block will have to be razed to the ground, as I understand it, and this building will have to be razed to the ground if Camp Hill is used. 
If a new and permanent parliament house is established at Capital Hill at least this building will be saved for posterity for the reasons mentioned by the Minister for Labour. I am a great supporter of the Capital Hill site. I have voted for it in the past and I will vote for it on this occasion. 
jAs a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, I feel that I ought to say a few things about the proposed change. Being a member of the Committee, I have discussed with other members of the Committee the possibility of increasing the mandatory minimum limit of expenditure for projects to be referred to the Public Works Committee from $750,000 to $2m. The debate on this proposal was initiated in the Senate on 24 May 1973 and subsequently was debated there on 29 and 30 August. Of course, the reason for the proposal was the increased workload on the Committee brought about by the increased number and value of the public and civil works programs of this Government and previous governments. 
As has been said, the proposal now before us is to increase the mandatory minimum limit from $750,000 to S2m. I ought to say, as I think was said by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  that the Committee made a recommendation to the then Minister for Works and to the Government that the mandatory limit should be increased to SI. 5m. I think I should read out the section of the Public Works Committee Act which relates to the subject we are now debating, namely, section 18 (8). It states: 
A public work the estimated cost of which exceeds $750,000 shall not be commenced unless - 
the work has been referred to the Committee in accordance with this section; 
the House of Representatives has resolved that, by reason of the urgent nature of the work, it is expedient that it be carried out without having been referred to the Committee; or 
the Governor-General has, by order, declared that the work is for defence purposes and that the reference of the work to the Committee would be contrary to the public interest. 
That deals with the area which we are discussing today and about which we are endeavouring to reach agreement on increasing the mandatory minimum limit. As I said, the Committee talked about this matter. I believe the honourable member for Wakefield has said that he agreed that the mandatory limit for works considered by the Committee should be increased from $750,000 to $2m. The work load on the Committee would make members of the Committee try to do something about reducing that load. The Committee's general report - a report must be submitted each year pursuant to the law - states in paragraph 6: 
The Committee met on  62  occasions in 1972. These meetings were held to transact private business, to carry out inspections or to take evidence at public hearings and were held in Canberra (31), Darwin (10), Sydney (6), Perth (4), Melbourne (2), Brisbane, Hobart, Lae, Port Moresby, Townsville, Amberley, Shepparton, Puckapunyal and Tennant Creek. Brief inspection visits were also paid to Bathurst, Canungra and Alice Springs. 
That indicates the variability of the work load on the Committee and the extent to which it travels around Australia throughout the year. As can be seen from the report, 62 meetings were held during the year. The purpose of meetings of a private nature is to help the Committee to formulate its report and its future program. 
I feel that something ought to be said about the various aspects of expenditure by govern ments on civil works programs. I say that because in 1969 the Committee investigated civil works programs totalling $157m and in 1973 the projected expenditure on civil works programs is S245m. I put this in the context that in 1969 the mandatory minimum limit for works considered by the Committee was $400,000 whereas the proposal now is to increase the limit to S2m. That is a fivefold increase since 1969. The work load on the Committee has not increased fivefold as the figures which I have mentioned concerning civil works programs show. Expenditure in 1969 amounted to $157m and it is expected to to be S745m in 1973. The relationship between $750,000 and $2m has no bearing on the expected expenditure on civil works programs. If we can relate these figures to the Budget figures we find that the 1969 Budget expenditure was $7,000m and the 1973 Budget expenditure is roughly $ 13,000m. In other words, Budget expenditure has not increased twofold since 1969. 
Another relationship that could be arrived at is in respect of the gross national product. In 1969 the gross national product was $30,000m. In 1972 it was $41, 000m. So there is no relationship between the figures in this Bill and those I have just cited. I wondered what the problem was, and I came to the conclusion that this Government and its predecessors were spending far too much money on civil works. Before I get on to that area I think I ought to say that in volume the Committee inspects about 2 per cent of the total number of projects carried out by the Department of Works. In other words, for every 100 projects that the Department of Works initiates for various Commonwealth departments only two are inspected by the Committee. At the same time I ought to say that the value of the work inspected represents some 33 per cent of the total Department of Works expenditure. In other words, we look at the projects which are of real value. 
I have already talked about the travelling that members of the Committee do. This has a bearing on the ability of a member of the Committee to carry out his work in this Parliament because he is away from it so often. Now that the House is meeting on Mondays as well as Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, there is very little time left for this Committee to do its work as it did in the past. In fact, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  said in his second reading speech that members of the Committee do a tremendous amount of work for the Parliament. In that speech he said that about one week in four would be available for the Committee to make its inspections and to do the work that it has to do for this Parliament as an arm of the Parliament. But he did not say what the position will be in November. We will not have that week to spare because the Parliament is to meet for 5 consecutive weeks. I am not sure how the  Chairman  and the Committee itself will carry out the work that they are supposed to do in November. I know that the Minister for Services and Property has said that the one week in four we have available for Committee work is an average availability. Perhaps he was right from that point of view. 
My main concern is that so much public money is being spent on civil works programs. The taxpayers have to find that money. Most of us in this place really determine that we can spend their hard earned money far better than they can spend it themselves. I believe that this Commonwealth Government and previous governments have tended to force inflation on to this country because of the tremendous amounts of money that they expect to get from taxpayers and spend from the public purse. Whenever we initiate a program - and there are many of them - we reduce the availability of materials to private enterprise and to private individuals. We make sure that materials are in short supply right throughout Australia. Not only do we take money away, not only do we take materials, we also divert labour from private enterprise, from local governments, State governments and private individuals, and that labour works for public enterprise, for the Commonwealth Government. 
I believe this is a wrong approach for a Central Government to adopt. I believe that we should take up the slack in times of stress but that we should not be making the pace and ensuring that other areas of administration - State parliaments and local governments - and individual families and the people themselves have less in materials, in time and certainly in money with which to carry out the work that they want carried out for their own personal and family benefit. 
The suggestion has been made that there ought to be a second public works committee. Obviously the Public Works Committee discussed this question. We came to the conclusion that we should not recommend to the Parliament that a second Committee of a public works nature should be set up. The second thing we discussed - and this was certainly mentioned in the debate in the Senate - was the suggestion that we ought to form subcommittees. In other words, No. 1 subcommittee would assess the prospects of a particular public works program and another sub-committee would assess the prospects of constructional work in an entirely different area. But we had in mind that all members of the Committee take the final responsibility for the report that is presented to the Parliament itself. In other words, it is very nice to be talking about sub-committees making a full assessment, presenting the report to a complete public works committee and then making sure that all the members of that committee agree with what the sub-committee says. I think we concluded that this was not a practical solution from the point of view of the Committee members themselves. They wanted to interest themselves in whatever projects they could and they wanted to take a proper part in the final report. As I said, the mandatory minimum limit for works considered by the Committee was $400,000 in 1969. That limit was increased in 1969 to $750,000. This Bill proposes to increase the limit to $2m. It was said in the Senate, and I think it bears repetition that the Public Works Committee assessed 18 civil works programs for the Parliament in 1969. In 1972 the Committee assessed 35 works and it is projected that this year, it will assess 54 works. I think the Leader of the House who is at the table, mentioned this when he introduced the legislation to the Parliament. That indicates the tremendous increase in expenditure on public works by this Government that is taking place throughout Australia. I feel that we are going too far too fast and spending too much of the public's money while doing very little to alleviate the problem of individuals and local government bodies, as well as of State governments. 
Mention has been made of the fact - this section of the Bill was passed in the Senate - that the Public Works Committee should have a look at the tremendous expenditures of statutory authorities. First of all, I should say that there are now as least 60 statutory authorities in Australia and I think that one or two have been introduced in recent weeks which would add to that number. Each of them has what we call a one-line budget. In other words, they come to the Minister concerned before Budget time, make an assessment of the amounts they feel they can spend during the year and the Minister, being a convivial type, says: 'You had better go away and spend it. I will try to get it through Cabinet and the Parliament.' These statutory authorities and, more particularly, their expenditures are not scrutinised by the Parliament. For instance, the National Capital Development Commission in the Australian Capital Territory has an expenditure which is comparable to the civil works program which is scrutinised by the Public Works Committee. One statutory authority alone spends as much in a year as the value of the projects examined by the Public Works Committee in that year. Of course, the works at which the Public Works Committee looks are carried out under the supervision of the Department of Works, which operates throughout Australia. The work of the National Capital Development Commission is carried out only within the Australian Capital Territory and if this work and expenditure of the NCDC are not scrutinised, I believe that every member of this Parliament should say and should feel that some sort of scrutiny by the Parliament should be given to this statutory authority. We have established a national Pipeline Authority and here again, I believe that some members of the Parliament - I am not suggesting the Public Works Committee should do this - ought to know what sort of expenditure takes place in the new Pipeline Authority. We are responsible to the people of Australia because we take their taxes and we should be able to report to the people on how their money has been spent. 
I have mentioned statutory authorities and I have also mentioned that we as parliamentarians and this Parliament have no scrutiny over their expenditures. I feel that this was reasonable some years ago when there were only 7 statutory authorities up to the year 1940 and they were not spending big money, anyway. But let us see how many statutory authories are in existence now. By 1950 there were a further 16 statutory authorities added to the list; by 1960 a further 13 authorities were added to the list; by 1970 there were another 16 statutory authorities; and, as far as I can assess, in the 1980 decade there will be at least another 10 statutory authorities because we have already established an additional 7 authorities since 1970 and it is fair to assess that there will be at least another 10 authorities before 1980. All of these bodies are spending taxpayers' money and all their expenditures should be scrutinised by this Parliament. I am suggesting that another committee - not another Public Works Committee - be established to have a look at the statutory authorities and their expenditure. I am suggesting that, as we have more than 60 statutory authorities, some of them are not doing the work that originally they were intended to do and they could become obsolescent. I believe that some of them could be amalgamated. Certainly, their expenditures should be scrutinised by this Parliament. We have had a proliferation of these statutory bodies and there ought to be a good look at their activities and, particularly, their expenditures and even if we do not set up another committee to examine their activities, I believe that the Joint Statutory Committee of Public Accounts which more or less has been eliminated from looking at their expenditures, should enter this field to look at the activities and the expenditures of statutory bodies. I know that these bodies are responsible in some form or other to a Minister and I know that to all intents and purposes the Minister is a responsible person. But I believe that we as members of Parliament have a right and a duty to examine the expenditure of the statutory authorities to find out where the money is being expended and whether it is being expended efficiently. 
As I said earlier, I feel that Government departments are trying to go too far too fast and are spending too much of the taxpayers' money. As an instance, I have mentioned the NCDC and its expenditure in the Australian Capital Territory. Obviously, we will set up another body to cater for the expansion which will take place in the Albury-Wodonga area. We will have public servants there in a few short years and here we will establish another statutory body which will go to a Minister, ask for funds and receive funds and the people will have to pay. This will apply not only in Albury-Wodonga but also in Bathurst, Geelong and all the other areas where there must be and will be tremendous expansion. These expenditures should be looked at by the people in this Parliament and should be scrutinised by the Parliament itself. Therefore, I suggest that a body should be established to look at the operations and expenditures of these statutory bodies. 
Why did the Minister for Labour ask the Premier of Victoria to discipline Liberal senators from Victoria? Is this the type of standover tactic to be adopted by this socialist government in future? Did the Minister learn these methods from the leaders of left wing unions or did they learn to stand over the people of Australia from him? 
I address a question to  the Treasurer. Will Australia lose its prominent position on world aluminium production because of policy decisions of this Government? Has Comalco Ltd decided not to set up a $500m alumina refinery at Weipa because of the 331/3 per cent appreciation of the Australian dollar against the United States dollar, because 33 per cent of overseas funds for investment here have to be deposited in the Reserve Bank and because of the removal of the investment allowance for secondary industries? Is this another example of progress withering on the vine, which usually comes with socialism, or is this the sort of excitement that the Prime Minister finds so exhilarating when he talks at the Lord Mayor's Ball in Melbourne? 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Has the Australian dollar been revalued by approximately 2 per cent since the beginning of November due to the fact that it is tied to the American dollar - a practice described by one Minister as one that is adopted by mugs and hillbillies? Is this revaluation by stealth advantageous to Australia or does it indicate that economically we are not masters of our destiny in this real area of national interest? 
asked the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to his predecessor's press release of 4 August 1973, relating to the tariff cuts as they affect trade with New Zealand, is ita fact that, as a result of his predecessor's action in reducing preferential rates of duty by 25 per cent of the general rates, tariff rates on plastic products have not been reduced by the 25 per cent, as generally stated, but by amounts around 50 per cent and 62) per cent. 
If so, does this leave the Australian plastics industry with virtually no protection at all because New Zealand buys its raw materials at world parity prices whereas Australian prices are set at higher levels to protect the resident Australian chemical industry. 
Were the tariff rates applicable prior to the recent cuts arrived at after 6 years of investigation and tariff hearings. 
Is it a fact that, but for the current world shortage of raw materials, the Australian plastics industry would be in a position where it could be irretrievably harmed. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Who determines whether a wife or other member of the family is permitted to travel at public expense with (a) a Minister of State, (b) a Member of Parliament and (c) a Government employee. 
Have any guidelines or criteria been laid down to determine these matters; if so, what are they. 
Are the same principles applied in determining whether a private businessman may claim a tax deduction for expenses incurred by or on behalf of his wife when she accompanies him on an overseas trip. 
As the Minister for Minerals and Energy is refusing to approve any new export contracts for uranium, is he expecting the industry to go out of business or is this his method of depressing the shares of the companies involved so that the Government can take over a reduced asset at a very cheap rate - that is, nationalise the industry in total? 
