I now rise and ask for the indulgence of this honourable House and for the courtesies it extends to new members desirous of making a maiden speech. I first thank the people of Holt who have returned me here. Many of them, like me, are migrants. I suppose one could describe me as a pomegranate. The people of Holt also would expect me on this occasion to thank  Sir Robert  Menzies for his courteous message to us after the election. Coming from the mother of Parliaments, the House of Commons, I realise that my former colleagues of all parties and on all sides would wish to extend to this Parliament, to you  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to  Mr Speaker,  to the Clerks of the House and to all honourable members their personal respects. 
It is true that I have made a maiden speech before. That was on 15 June 1955. So I am a pretty old maiden- In the chair was  Mr Speaker  Morrison. When he finished his loyal service to the House of Commons,  Her  Majesty made him Viscount Dunrossil. He came to serve us here as Governor-General of Australia.  His  portrait hangs in King's Hall. As I saw his portrait I saw very much the same as I see in the new Speakerthat great Scottish charm and that great Scottish courtesy.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope that you will convey from the electors of Holt our personal good wishes to  Mr Speaker.  Also, we extend our congratulations to you,  Sir, and  to all other honourable members who have been elected as officers of this honourable House. In passing, I recall a speech made by  Mr Speaker  when he visited Dandenong recently. He referred to himself as being like an old milk horse because he knew the area so well. We would prefer to remember him with great affection because prior to redistribution he held the seat and was the Federal member of Parliament. 
There is another courtesy I would like to observe as a maiden  speaker  and on behalf of others who have made a maiden speech. I would like to extend and to record the grateful thanks of new members to the Clerks of the House, to the attendants and to those in charge of transport and the Parliamentary Library. I must admit that I could not have found my way to this place or from this place unless I had received their help at all times. 
A maiden  speaker  is, by tradition, moderate, temperate and non-controversial.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this is totally contrary to the whole of my personality and I give this House a solemn undertaking that it will never endure a speech like this again. This evening, however, I must refer to the old and famous seat of Flinders which came into being in 1901 and which has its centre at Dandenong. Of course, historians are disagreeable persons- I respect them- but they do agree on one thing: The journeys of both McMilland and Strzelecki are the first recorded discoveries of the area which I now represent. Indeed, in Strzelecki's Official Report of the Papers of the House of Commons of 1841 he wrote- I am glad that he wrote it because it makes me feel good: 
Prospects to future settlers which this country holds out and which it was my lot to discover I took the liberty of naming after His Excellency, the Governor, Gippsland. 
Historically too, these are important centres. 
May I now turn to what are important centres in Holt. Firstly I refer to Berwick. It is quite clear from early evidence that Terrance O'Connor sold to Captain Gardiner from New South Wales his land around the centre of Berwick. Because he came from Berwick-on-Tweed he called the city Berwick. It is of course absolutely impossible when referring to Berwick not to say that it is the home of Australia's most distinguished diplomat of this century- Lord Casey, who served in the Cabinet, as a Minister of State, and who also served in the Middle East. 
The great farming area of Cranbourne was first registered in the survey by a  Mr Foot  of the Lands Department. He seems to have had ideas of nobility. In naming the areas he used quite arbitrary names- names of parliamentarians, Lords Lyndhurst, Packenham, Longford, Cranbourne, you name it. Dandenong itself is the gateway to Gippsland. It was discovered by the Wedge family and eventually became the most important cattle market for the area. It certainly seems to have been swampy in those old times, for a graveyard stone records the following: 
Erected in memory of James Morrison, Native of Ballarat who was drowned while bathing his horse in the Bangholme Waterhole. 
It would be inaccurate and indeed remiss if I did not mention that the most famous Australian politician came from the area- Lord Bruce of Melbourne who was Prime Minister of Australia between 1923 and 1929. Looking back on my parliamentary career I can remember the green cards- the  Clerk  of the House will know thiscoming through all the back benches. On those cards were 5 words: 'Lord Bruce of Melbourne speaking'. Almost at once the back benchers from the Commons moved across to the Lords to hear him. He was a magnificent  speaker.  I can still recall his voice in the Lords today where he was heard with the most profound respect. 
I have mentioned  Mr Speaker  as a predecessor in the area but I would be wrong if I did not mention  Mr Len  Reid who took over the seat in 1 969. He was a brave and courageous pilot who served in Malta.  His  services to the area of Holt are well known. He is respected and loved by everybody. In this House he was particularly involved with the Australian Parliamentary Christian Fellowship and today he is acclaimed for his work in providing livestock to Bangladesh to improve that country. In Bangladesh the words 'Reid' and 'Australia' are synonymous. 

 Mr Max Oldmeadow, who came from the present Opposition Party, sat in the House between 1972 and 13 December of last year. Likewise he was a man of learning and likewise he was a member of the Australian Parliamentary Christian Fellowship. Nobody in Holt can quarrel with the amount of federal aid that, one way or another, he persuaded his Ministers to put into our area. It is only fair and just for me to say that his efforts in obtaining Federal funds were for the best possible ends. I am thinking of the Commonwealth library in Doveton, the children's centre in Dandenong and the scouts centre in Doveton. 
I am in this House to carry on my work and to make this House and the Ministers aware of what the people of Holt require. I hope this House will listen to me with care. I am convinced that the points I am going to make do apply to other areas as well. Firstly, there is no doubt from the speeches tonight that there is a very serious, critical economic situation in Australia at present. I believe above all else that this country needs a national plan. It seems to me to be unbelievable that a nation which is dependent so much on foreign investment, whose economy is so volatile and whose exports are bound for Japan and other nations in the Far East, has no national plan whatever. If France can work out a national plan for good housekeeping, for common sense in national affairs, surely we can now work one out between industry, the unions and the people for, as a nation, we are all interdependent. 
Our second problem revolves around unemployment, particularly among young people. I do not and will not countenance the 2 words 'ugly teenager'. There are no such people. They are only young people who have been deprived of the love and affection that they should have received as of right. I turn now to the industrialists of this country and ask them what they have done about creating new apprenticeships this year and what they have done about extending their traineeships. What have they offered this year to the young people? Have their personnel officers gone out and negotiated with the employment officers and social welfare officers in the area in an endeavour to help the young people? If not, why not? 
Dandenong to day presents a totally different picture from the agricultural centre it use to be. It is now the main industrial centre of industry. I can mention 4 major companies in the areaGeneral Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, International Harvester Australia Ltd, H. J. Heinz and Co. (Australia) Ltd and Sperry Rand (Australia) Ltd. There are many small businesses as well. We are involved in serious union problems. I am wondering whether it is right in the closing years of this century to allow a group of people to operate under the title of a friendly society and be totally outside the common law, the law of contract, of this land. I think that this Government and this nation should look extremely carefully at this particular point. 
Let me deal with the specific requests that I have received from the areas of Holt. Berwick requires attention and help from the Government for its new state school and finance for its new library. Cranbourne requests the provision of some money in order to enable it to build up the dirt tracks from the town to the bay because those roads are required for the tourist industry. Thirdly, the people of Dandenong have tremendous problems with road congestion and they are interested in the installation of new traffic lights and the provision of every possible help for road safety. I must also remind the Government that it gave an honourable undertaking to the Dandenong Hospital. At this moment in time we do not know whether there are sufficient funds to pay for the new wing of the hospital and the Dandenong Hospital Committee wants to know the Government's view. Fourthly, Doveton expects some help- in particular, help for its health centres and to improve social services. It badly needs social workers and a doctor. I must say that the people of Doveton show an extraordinary spirit of community work which is remarkable and I shall never refer to that area as being underprivileged or backward. 
Fifthly, the people of Springvale, Noble Park and Dingley are anxious about road safety. They are above all worried in case the Government should fail to continue to give financial assistance to the Housing Commission to build more houses. Also in the same area Father Moran has a Catholic school program for a new centre and I hope that the Government will support this project too. In the fast developing area of Dingley all possible help is needed to assist in the provision of sewerage. 
I want to turn in the last few minutes to the wider field of world affairs. It was no accident that I went on the first all Party parliamentary mission to China and I must say now that I wish to assure  His Excellency,  the Chinese Ambassador here, and  Dr Fitzgerald  that there are many people in this country who are most anxious to improve cultural relations between the 2 nations and I will do all I can to assist. In Africa today we have come to the most critical impasse in the affairs of the Rhodesian Government and I now make a special plea to our friends in Rhodesia. I am referring particularly to Prime Minister  Mr Smith,  Lord Graham,  Mr Van  der Byle,  Mr Harper,  the Ministers, the Cabinet, the churches and to all the moderate elements in the nation. It is perfectly possible that in 1966 they completely misunderstood the efforts of the Prime Minister of Malta and myself who desired and tried to work for a Commonwealth arbitration commission of 3 Premiers to go in an endeavour to sort out the terrible difficulties in which the Constitution of Rhodesia had got and also her relations with Britain. 
Today the Rhodesian nation will be receiving Lord Greenhill. He is a man of great wisdom. At this moment I beg all members of the Rhodesian Government to try at once to solve the constitutional problem because there is very little time left. We in Australia have a special interest in Rhodesia through the tobacco industry, through mining and through family connections. Indeed, the last commander of the Royal Rhodesian Air Force was an Australian. For those who work in foreign affairs it is always advisable to remember that right must be morally right and to work for it. However, I do feel that a former member of this House knew what it all meant. His name was Colonel Billy Kent Hughes. To fight for that which is right is no easy task, and this is the poem that he once wrote: 
How will man use the knowledge he has gained 
To help his fellow men or keep them chained 
To the wheels of slavery, well greased with hate? 
Or will he rise the master of his fate 
And on this planet whirling through space remove the barricades of pride and race, 
Of language, colour, creed and rigid caste 
And find enduring happiness at last? 
As an honorary Texan I think I might be allowed without causing any upset to use the words of Abraham Lincoln: 
Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it. 
My duty is quite clear. It is to observe as we do in our prayers our duty to God, to stand up for the things which are right, to serve the people who have elected me here, to work for the Australian people as long as I am in this Parliament and above all to support and care for the traditions of this honourable House. Therefore I commend to the nation and to the people of Holt the words that are contained in this gracious speech from the Governor-General. 

 -Mr Speaker, with your leave, may I put a question to the Treasurer? Is the Treasurer aware that a new plant of Aveling and Barford (Australia) was opened at Dandenong over the weekend and that the directors of this company have asked something perfectly reasonable? Will the Treasurer try to ensure that there are no major fluctuations in tariffs during the next two or three years, as a matter of policy, because such fluctuations make planning of any international company or any company extremely difficult? Will the Treasurer give an undertaking that if he wishes to make changes of any magnitude in the tariff he will consult the industry beforehand? 
I direct my question on the motor manufacturing industry to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that his statement yesterday about the motor manufacturing industry has been well received and will he, as a tribute to the people who work in the motor industry and their technicians, consider using an Australian Holden motor car for his own personal use and for official occasions? Does he realise that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd will be glad to assist him in obtaining such a car? 
I should like to add a few words about this Bill. I want to concentrate mainly on the cultural aspects of the Bill and to consider it with rather more care. It is remarkable to note that Japanese is not one of the major languages in any of our major State schools- nor is Indonesian for that matter, either. I cannot see how we can propose to take part in the events of the changing social patterns in the world unless we can understand and converse in the language of our neighbours. For 4 years Brighton Grammar School has piloted a scheme of international exchange directly with a Japanese school. I think some of the lessons that have been learned by the host families on one side in Japan and by me as a member of a host family in Australia are of importance and are of great interest to us. 
Perhaps the most important thing to realise is that we must all have patience and understanding in dealing with international exchange programs. In passing I must pay tribute to one school in Victoria, Waverley High School, which also has piloted an international exchange scheme for students of forms four, five and six. These international exchanges must form the pattern for and form part of what some of the money will be devoted to under this Bill. What are the points that are of value in an international exchange of 2 boys or 2 girls, one in Japan and one in Australia? First and foremost is the complete understanding of the social customs of the 2 nations. In understanding the social customs of the 2 nations one brings together the understanding of how families live in the 2 countries. 
In supporting this Bill I do not want to delay the House in its deliberations or to go much further than to add a plea that this Foundation, from its very early stages, should do all it can to assist those in this country who are anxious to improve the direct cultural relations between the younger generation because it is their future that we are in fact building. In short then, I support this Bill because we must be sensitive and alert and make creative decisions here in Australia which will make a significant contribution to life in the Far East in times of rapid social change. In strategy too, we are partners with Japan. In strategy too, we realise that we are also to be friends with China and all our neighbours. As I said in my maiden speech, the nation must be a good neighbour nation in the years ahead. I commend and support the principles and ideals of this Foundation. I hope that it will bring lasting and positive enjoyment and endurance to the younger people of the nation and will build up strong, firm, friendly and understanding relations between the people of Japan and the people of Australia, I commend the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister concerning the military funeral for Viscount Montgomery of Alamein. As a member of the Returned Services League and having served with the Eighth Army, may I inquire what steps the Prime Minister proposes to take to make certain that a detachment of the armed forces and the ex-service organisations are at Windsor for that service as a tribute not only to Viscount Montgomery but also to the families of those whose lives were lost in the last war? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how many Federal laws have been contravened to date by the buyer of the Robbins Bendigo gold nugget, and what action does he propose to take on behalf of the Australian people. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the 
true value; and 
weight of the Robbins Bendigo gold nugget for which he has granted an export licence to the United States of America. 
Will he provide a list of the names of the experts he consulted in the national museums before issuing the licence to export the gold nugget. .  Mr Howard-  The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
(D- 
The value stated in the application for an export licence was $35,000; 
182 ounces troy. 
Officers of my Department were in contact with an official of the National Museum of Victoria, Melbourne concerning the nugget. I am informed that the finders had offered the nugget for sale to that Museum and although the offer had stood for a considerable period no sale was effected. The official was advised that any case the Museum cared to submit for retention of the nugget in Australia would be submitted for my consideration. The Museum did not avail itself of this offer. No representations concerning the disposal of the nugget were received from any other museum. 
-The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has suggested that General MotorsHolden's will not co-operate with the Government and will take steps as a private enterprise industry not to do so. I find that remark extremely offensive and I hope that when he leaves the chamber the honourable member will be kind enough to come and talk to me about it. 
Does the honourable member have some observation to make from his bare benches? 
I would like to follow the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  I have only a few minutes in which to speak, because of the allotment of time. I think some experience of fighting 5 general elections - 
Motion (by  Mr Scholes)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put.  Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-I give notice that on Thursday next, General Business day No. 2, I shall move: 
That this House requests the Government to reconsider the necessity for a reduction of overseas aid this financial  year and now calls for its restoration in the Budget by adding an income graded overseas aid surcharge to all taxable incomes so that Australia will be able to set an example by devoting 0.7 per cent of the gross national product to overseas aid and truly honour its obligations to the United Nations and to the poorer nations of the world. 
-Tonight I should like to discuss the moral and strategic implications to this nation of overseas aid. I remind honourable members and I remind myself that no political Party has the monopoly of compassion. Most of us here have received letters from many friends and many people connected with overseas aid. The majority of us have received pleas from the churches and church leaders. Historically I suppose we could say that overseas aid had its origins in the efforts of the old colonial powers to maintain their settlements abroad. In this generation it is correct to say that overseas aid is exemplified first by the Marshall Plan- a child of the generous people of the United States. Recently 2 world factors have caused a serious problem for us all- the population explosion and unemployment. So overseas aid has become one of the most pressing issues of our time. Indeed, in 1965  Mr Paul  Hoffman of the United Nations Economic and Social Council accurately forecast what was going to happen in the sub-continent of India and South-East Asia. 
Australia is a small nation situated amidst all this confusion. It is the only developed area in the South Pacific. Therefore the mantle of overseas aid has fallen upon us in such a way that it is not simply a moral duty but one of national survival. I trust that this robe will not become like the robe of Nessus. Let me say straight away that the record of Australian aid is one of the best possible in the world. Starting with the Colombo 
Plan there is absolutely nothing about which this nation can feel ashamed where aid to Papua New Guinea or South-East Asia is concerned. Our present problem, of course is now more urgent in regard to aid for Africa. The Government must start thinking about this. Overseas aid takes many forms- grants, food, international bodies and projects. I am particularly interested in the remarks of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  about what we should do with all the dried milk. I suggest that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization should have a look at the matter and see whether we cannot convert this milk into tablet form. Overseas aid in 1974-75 was $328m. This year it will be $352.9m-0.5 1 per cent of the gross national product. This is well on the way to what we promised the United Nations. I am perfectly convinced that unless inflation is brought under control and the economy is put on a sound basis there will be no foreign aid. So I say to my friends in the schools, universities and churches: 'Remember this one thing: A Liberal government will honour Liberal philosophy. Even if now we have to defer the action of giving full foreign aid we will take it later'. I am quite certain that those listening to me will understand that this is only a short transitory period and the Government in due course will take steps to see that its commitment is fully honoured. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., I put the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I speak a little longer? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
What steps does the Minister propose to take to halt the heavy imports of foreign onions and onion compounds, which are causing serious dislocation of the sale of onions grown in Australia and confusion in the food industries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
When does the Department of Education intend to authorise a federal grant for the completion of St Joseph's Primary Catholic School library at Springvale. Victoria. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Social Security yet decided to authorise a grant to purchase a new school bus for the Special School for Handicapped Children. Heatherton Road. Dandenong. Victoria. 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs tell us the exact task and role of the Commonwealth Police unit at present serving on the island of Cyprus? We sometimes take these people for granted. Can he tell us what is their role, how many are there and what they are achieving on our behalf in Cyprus? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In order to reinforce the recovery of business confidence in the private sector of the economy, will he table monthly in 
Parliament the capital investment programs of major investment projects in Australia as from 1 January 1976. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House believes that Australian foreign aid programs should take into account and use the surplus Australian agricultural products, and, it therefore calls upon the Government to consider appointing an interdepartmental study group in co-operation with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the food and pharmaceutical industries to examine at once the possibility of using the surplus dried milk and other agricultural dairy produce for the making of protein biscuits and compressed milk compound tablets for the relief of starvation and malnutrition in the countries taking Australian foreign aid, because it will be of direct assistance to the countries concerned, on the one hand, and direct help to the dairy industry and the taxpayer on the other. 
-Will the Prime Minister tell us on whose initiative changes were made to the Order of Australia? When does the Prime Minister propose to make these new awards? 
-The adjournment debate provides an opportunity for individual honourable members to discuss matters which are important to the electorates they represent. I wish to discuss one of the largest and most modern hospitals in the East Melbourne area, the Dandenong General Hospital. This week there will be an emergency meeting of the hospital committee, and I think it is good for the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to know why the meeting is to be held. This month there will be a census for the electorate of Holt, but let me say straight away that the Dandenong General Hospital is supposed to cope with and be responsible for providing hospital attention for about 360 000 people. The hospital caters for 5 cities and rural areas in the district. At present it is actually giving service to about half a million people in the area. Fortunately the hospital is blessed with a first-class medical team in charge of all aspects of hospital work including motor accident units, which we all need, and an intensive heart care unit. 
The hospital is looked after by a devoted and professional nursing service under Matron Ewen supported by all the ancillary services, provided in the main by volunteers. However, the hospital committee cannot rely on love and loyalty alone. It is now faced with some very serious problems involving capital expenditure and the daily maintenance of hospital services in the area. The Dandenong General Hospital at present has 205 beds but by April 1977 the number will rise to about 300 when the south block will have been completed. There will be a loss of 40 beds while construction work takes place in the older part of the hospital. So far in 1975-76 28 000 people have been treated in the casualty section, and it is anticipated that 30 000 will have attended at that section this year. The new south block will be completed at a cost of $7m. In order not to take up the time of the House I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  statistical documents to prove what I am saying. 
-The hospital committee has had to take out an overdraft for $2m up to June 1 980. Honourable members can imagine the anxiety this has caused to the hospital and those who are responsible for planning. They were told to plan for a hospital with 600 beds. As far as we know there has been no planning on the north block, no decision has been taken, and nothing has been decided about this final extension to the hospital. Therefore the Dandenong Hospital committee has asked me, quite correctly, as the member for the electorate of Holt, to put 4 important questions to the Minister tonight. Firstly, would it be correct to say that an impression was given to the former Labor member for Holt that the Dandenong Hospital was on the priority lists of the Federal Government and the State Government? Secondly, when will planning be allowed to start for the north block? 
Thirdly, what capital financial assistance is going to be given by the Federal Government to this hospital to build the north block? Fourthly, will the Minister indicate that this hospital is still on the priority list bearing in mind that he expects this hospital to be a major teaching hospital in the east Melbourne area in the next few years? I consider these questions are reasonable and ones to which the Committee which is responsible for the planning of the hospital are entitled to have answers. 
I hope that the Minister will be able to give those answers. May I say to the House that the time available in this adjournment debate and the time that I have spent in this place during this first session of the Parliament nave been most valuable and useful to my electors and I have enjoyed every moment of serving my electorate. I have been only too glad to do this on behalf of them, on behalf of my Party, and on behalf of the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister supply a statement of the authority granted to  Mr Clunies  Ross to manage the Cocos Islands. 
) Who granted this authority. 
What is the proposed timetable for independence for the Cocos Islands. 
What authority does Australia have in the Cocos Islands. 

 -Mr Speaker, Lord Casey, Baron of Berwick, lived in the electorate of Holt, which I represent, and he too served 2 governments and 2 parliaments. He also served in the War Cabinet. I realise that the electors of Holt would like me to say on their behalf today that the loss of Lord Casey to the Australian Parliament, to this nation and to world affairs has been a tragedy. He was perhaps one of the greatest statesmen, ahead of his time, that the world has ever seen, and we were very fortunate, both here and in Westminster, to have a man with such foresight so shortly after the war. As he lived in the electorate of Holt, on behalf of the people of that electorate I would like to express to Lady Casey and her family our sense of loss and our respect for one of Australia's finest and most famous men and certainly a world diplomat. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Social Security given access to individuals' taxation records when investigating eligibility for social service payments. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry the following questions, upon notice: 
1 ) Is a 20 per cent increase possible in the floor price for wool. 
Would the Australian Wool Corporation be able to support the market if a 20 per cent increase in the floor price of wool was granted, without getting additional finance. 
How much has the Government lent to the Australian Wool Corporation in the last 2 years. 
Does the Government regard the 2 1 micron indicator for wool as a reliable one, or will it be changed this year. 
Will he give the figures for last season's wool selling showing the rate at which all combing wool microns between 1 9 and 30 sold compared to the floor price. 
Will the floor price for wool be increased for the 1976-77 season. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the generally accepted economic production run of a motor vehicle model. 
What is the maximum run of models from existing plants. 
What is the variable cost of producing a car, excluding fixed overhead. 
-The Minister for Transport will agree the Canberra is a very beautiful and fine capital city, but what an airport it has! When will the Government produce plans to update completely, not only for the capital but also for the tourist industry, the present buildings which call themselves the Canberra Airport terminal? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he supply a list of aquarium fish indicating those that (a) may be imported into Australia, (b) are prohibited imports, (c) are prohibited imports pending investigation and (d) are subject to review. 
Does the advisory committee on imports of live aquarium fish intend recommending, in its review, that the import of  Carassius Auratus  (common goldfish) be not approved; if so, what is the reason for this recommendation. 
Is the classification of  Carassius Auratus  likely to be changed. 
Can he say what percentage of all aquarium fish sold does goldfish comprise. 
5 ) How many goldfish have been imported into Australia during the last 5 years. 
I put a question to the Minister for Health. Would it be correct that there are 52 000 people in private nursing homes in this country? Is the Minister aware that when they or their families come to face the payment of the bills they now find that the Commonwealth help they have been receiving is $45 a week less? Has the Minister consulted the Treasurer to see what he can do to assist these people who worked to serve this nation and to whom we should pay more care and more attention? 
-I understand that we are discussing in Committee 2 matters together. One provides that the pensioner is entitled to health benefits all the time. I completely support that proposition. I see no reason why during that whole period the pensioner should not be entitled to health benefits under clause 4. Nothing would persuade me that a pensioner under Medibank should not be entitled to it. I understand that we are also discussing the following important provision: 
Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading this House is of the opinion that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The second point that the honourable member is dealing with, I gather from what he said, refers to an amendment which was moved at the second reading stage and which has already been dealt with. He was in order on the first point that he made, and he would also be in order in referring to any additional clause of this Bill. Strictly he is not in order on the second point he made. 
-The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  who spoke before me suggested that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue. I am absolutely unable to accept the proposal that Medibank should be funded out of general revenue. There are many good reasons for that opinion. Firstly, I do not believe that it is possible to fund Medibank out of general revenue. Experience abroad in 2 countries in this world has proved that any attempt to fund a national service organisation out of general revenue will fail, and therefore it is perfectly sensible that we ought to follow the original concept of the Opposition that a levy should be raised to fund the total Medibank cost. I do not believe that this nation in fact wants to accept a tax so that Medibank can be paid for out of general revenue. My fundamental belief is that people should care for themselves and look after themselves, and it is only when people cannot do so for one reason or another- because of their own problems or because of their financial situationthat taxation revenue should be used to help them. 
Am I being asked, for example, to say that my own contribution, if I join Medibank, should be paid out of general revenue? I do not believe that it should. I think I should be able to care for myself and family. I do not believe that the general revenue of this country should be used to fund Medibank completely. That was not the concept of the Opposition. I do not understand why this amendment has been proposed. Perhaps  Dr Cass  could explain it to me. Surely everybody knows that we cannot possibly have a system whereby general taxation is used for Medibank. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What recommendations has he made to the Health Commission to ensure that Medibank Private retains its competitive position especially if members are only covered for 35 days in any one year for hospital services. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What steps does he propose to take to assist the 52 000 old people in private nursing homes and hospitals who now find that the Federal allowances are $45 per week less than the average fees charged. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. In view of the visit to this country of the Prime Minister of Bahrain, the importance of that country's off-shore banking operations and the fact that Australia is interested in international exchange, will the Treasurer have discussions with representatives of the Government of Bahrain while they are here? 
-I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 9,I shall move: 
That this House recalls with regret that those who became unemployed between 1972 and 1975 rose from 136 769 to 328 705, and believes that the Labor Government stands condemned for failing to provide special help for the young school leaver; but now notes with approval that the Liberal Government has taken the initiatives and has extended the National Employment and Training scheme, offered special help for in-plant training, as well as a relocation allowance for those moving to a new job, and therefore expresses its confidence in these policies and those contained in the Budget; and therefore expects there will be a reduction in the numbers of those unemployed during the course of 1977, as well as a general reduction in direct and indirect taxation on the people. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs a question concerning Rhodesia. Is the Minister aware that a member of the Department has announced that taxpayers' money will be used to boost an international fund to pay for those people likely to have their properties in Rhodesia expropriated? Although many of us might agree or disagree with such a contribution, does the Minister agree that statements of this sort concerning taxpayers' money should come from the dispatch box and not from a spokesman from the Department or the Ministry? 
-I should like to deal tonight with the Lebanon, but I am sure that the House much appreciated the eloquent address of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  concerning Professor Manning Clark, that he might never be buried, dead or forgotten. I am certain that is the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition when he comes to think about the actions last year of the Governor-General. I hope the honourable gentleman's attitudes will soon be dead, buried and forgotten, and the sooner they are forgotten by the Labor Party the better it will be for it. 
The Lebanon presents this country with a very serious moral problem. Having been to Cyprus and having had discussions there, I feel that we must now consider with great care what the future of the Lebanon is going to be for us and for the Middle East. The war is going to continue, and for those like me who have lived in the Lebanon and have been at school there it is a matter of enormous regret The Lebanese people in Australia will sometimes be confused by the speeches they hear in this House, but the Lebanese people can be certain of one fact. Having lived in their country and knowing their country, I will not use their predicament for party politics or party advantage. I find that scurrilous, disgraceful and degrading to this honourable House, and the Leader of the Opposition stands condemned as a person who would use the sorrow, anguish and misery of the Lebanese people for mean political advantage. The Lebanese people have a very sensible expression, and they know it perfectly well. In Arabic it is  Saadani aw al Himar  which means 'Do you believe me or do you believe a donkey? ' They can choose. 
That I happen to know  Mr Pierre  Jemayel,  Mr Raymond  Eddeh' and other members of the Lebanese Government is good news for the Lebanese people here. Certainly they can rely on me for one thing and one thing alone: I will assist them in every way possible to bring about family reunions. That is the very reason that I went to see the work of the Minister for Immigration in the offices of the High Commission in Nicosia. What chaos was going on in those rooms and corridors! People were pouring in from Latakia, coming across in boats and getting to Nicosia as best they could, hoping to be able to come to Australia. 
I want to say only one thing about these people. If they can show that they have a family here, if they can show that they have a guaranteed job and if they have close family relations, I hope that the Government will give them every consideration. I know perfectly well that the Tahweel family and the Juaclid families and four or five others from Tripoli have been able to get here. It is wrong and ridiculous for us to pretend that we could take 20 000, 30 000 or 40 000 people into this country at the present time. I want to commend the Minister and his staff for working towards family unity. Far from being ashamed, I am absolutely delighted at what the Government has done to assist the Lebanese, who can trust us to help them because we know what the problem is all about. 

 -Mr Speaker, during question time today I was put in some difficulty in asking a question. Many questions are divided into two or three parts and I think, without being disrespectful to the Chair, that sometimes the Chair has ruled that a certain Minister may answer one part of the question but may not answer another part of the question. Before I was able to complete my question you,  Mr Speaker,  ruled that the whole question was out of order. That I can understand because Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice  states that any mention of or discussion about the Chief Justice has to be initiated by way of substantive motion. Is it not possible under the Standing Orders for a private member who wants to ask a question of public importance to do so by giving private notice to the Chair after question time? Under what circumstances can a private member after question time put a private notice involving a matter of urgent and public importance? 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have your leave to make a personal statement? 
-I wish to raise a matter concerning employment in the area which I happen to represent. I have been misrepresented in my local newspaper, not through any fault of the editor but through the statements of a  Mr Rob  Jolley, who said that I am prepared to misrepresent unemployment statistics in an attempt to gain short-term political capital. Could anybody imagine that I would do such a dreadful thing? Everybody realises that this speech would not have been necessary if, earlier today, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Schples)  had allowed my Press statement to be incorporated in  Hansard.  Now I have to delay the House to.defend myself against an attack by a person connected with pre-selection for the division of Holt. We on this side understand the expressions 'sour grapes' and 'sour chickens'. I did not use any statistics at all, so  Mr Jolley  is absolutely wrong. I suggested that in general in the Dandenong, Cranbourne, Berwick and Pakenham areas there were people actually looking for jobs, and that is a good thing too. There were also a number of vacancies that had not been filled. I happened to be making remarks that I had seen directors of industry, teachers, students and also the employment officers in the Commonwealth Employment Service concerning the serious situation.  Mr Jolley  makes up his own figures but I have to use the CES figures. 
I would like on behalf of all my electors to thank the officers of the CES in both Dandenong and in Springvale. I visited them. I visited the staff and the managers of the offices. They have done excellent work in trying to help everybody in my own electorate. I have been trying to encourage companies to increase their numbers of apprentices. I have also encouraged them to take on additional industrial trainees. Even the manager of a CES office has commented that the unemployment figures showed a marked improvement for the area, but like myself he appealed to employers to take on young school leavers at the end of this year. If the honourable member for Sydney who is seeking to interject can contain himself for a moment he might learn something that will benefit his electorate. 
If the honourable member wants to worry about Sydney, I will give him an old Sydney saying. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I put a question to the Attorney-General concerning the Constitution? May I ask, with your leave, a question without notice of the Attorney-General? 
I believe that there is no monopoly in compassion. I am not prepared to be told that the Lebanese do not come to my office, that they go only to the offices of the honourable members of the Opposition. I am not prepared to be told by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  that he is such a brilliant Arabist that he recognises only the rich Christians are able to get here and the poor Muslims are not. A remark like that in this place does nothing else than damage international relations and damage relations between the Lebanese in this country. I am absolutely appalled that the Opposition spokesman should say such things. Unfortunately, if I may say so with respect, the part of his speech referring to his own investigations were excellent, but once he started turning to hints given to him by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  it is no wonder he found himself in serious trouble. Members opposite would do very much better if they made their own speeches and did not listen to what the Leader of the Opposition wanted them to say. 
-No, he did not. The honourable member is too intelligent for that. The honourable member says that he has visited 8 centres. He has been to Nicosia and has seen the offices and the conditions. He was fortunate to get to Damascus. That was a very good and sensible move for him to make. 
The honourable member's main charge against the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is that the Minister could not foresee whether peace or truce would exist between the Christians on the one side and the Palestinians and the Syrians on the other. The Minister is not a magician. He had to do his best at the time. Listening to the speeches of honourable members one would imagine that not a single person got a visa in the crisis at Damascus. One would think that the gates were jammed, that there was brawling and that nothing was done. I think the honourable member should be very careful. During those critical moments an officer issued 516 visas. I have also all the figures in front of me of what has been happening in Cyprus. As I have plenty of time I will read to the House the exact statistics I have been given by the Minister. There were 8390 applications received between April and September 1976. There were 3029 visas granted between January and September 1976, of which 1526 were granted between August and September 1976. So the system has been working fairly well so far. In the week ending 1 October 1976, 169 visas were granted. 
I have in front of me a list of the names of my own constituents who have made applications in relation to their relatives now in Nicosia. They are not wealthy people. They live in Doveton, Noble Park and North Dandenong. What was the honourable member for Melbourne talking about when he referred to wealthy people coming in. He was just trying to make some political capital out of nothing.  Mr and Mrs Hindi  have made application for their son to come to Australia. They live at Lot 43, Fay Court, Noble Park. A  Mr Abbejabber  wants to come to Australia. An application has been made on his behalf by a relative,  Mr Hajja,  who lives at Flat 12, Samaria Street, North Dandenong. Some rich Christian Lebanese he! An application has been made concerning a  Mr Miasri  by his son, who lives at 11 Rawden Drive, North Dandenong. The Jabbour family is now actually in Nicosia waiting to come to Australia. The mother and father were bazookaed out of their house and the children fled. The whole familyeight of them in all- is now in Cyprus waiting for permission to leave for Australia. Honourable members may think that of all the cases passing through my office nobody has ever reached Australia. May I assure honourable members immediately that  Mr Annis  Mondous, who lives at 42 Fugiosa Street, Doveton, which is not the West End area of Holt but which is a very fine area, arrived safely last week. 
A few minutes ago I received a telephone call from a  Mr Palazzolo  reminding me that his daughter,  Mrs Taweel,  had arrived from Cyprus yesterday with her 4 children. She spoke to me on the telephone. She had one simple thing to say to me and to the Minister, namely: 'Thank you very much for what you have done for our family'. We realise that there are some other families that are going through great difficulties. I and others who are connected with the Lebanon realise that the Minister and the Government are doing everything in their power to assist those people. We have said that our policy, to be certain, is that we will help in bringing about family unity. The spokesman for the Opposition in this time of Winnie the Pooh reminds me of Eyeore upside down sucking Lebanese thistles. He has the whole story the wrong way round. The sooner he realises that the Lebanese people are extremely thankful for the work of the Department and the Minister the sooner further progress will be made. I am not saying that in every aspect the work we have done has been as we would like it to be. But, after all, one has only to travel to the Middle East at the present time to find out how difficult the situation is there. On behalf of the Lebanese people in my electorate and on behalf of the many migrants, from Mauritius and from Sri Lanka and other parts of Asia, I thank the Government for the work that it has done to assist in bringing about family unity. They thoroughly applaud and admire the work of this Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
Will the Minister for the Capital Territory kindly confirm or deny that bees have been entering the Australian Capital Territory without his prior consent? 
I do not want to delay the Committee or the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  for long. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has put forward a suggestion for an important change in the procedure for the granting of appropriations. I would not like him to think that there are not honourable members on this side of the chamber and others who are not in sympathy with his point of view. I believe that the Parliament should be independent of the Executive in these matters. In dealing with the finance for next year, I point out that this chamber will face additional expenditure in relations to not only the Silver Jubilee but also the commemoration of the foundation and opening in 1927 of this parliamentary building. I hope that these 2 matters have been taken into account for the appropriations for next year, otherwise we will be faced with an emergency measure. 
I do not know. I am a bit worried about it. All I say is that I hope that the Leader of the House has taken note that, as a Parliament, we have 2 important functions coming up. I do not want the Opposition to believe that we are not concerned about the way in which the funds are appropriated for the running of this Parliament. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-We realise that at certain times it is abundantly necessary for the Government to introduce legislation of an emergency nature. I do not think the House would ever dispute that in emergencies this is necessary. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has put a quite simple point of view that whereas all of us are equally willing and agreeable to assist the Executive, we understand and hope that on other occasions the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  will take the necessary steps to see that the House can be informed. The penalties involved are very serious. We are dealing with extraterritorial legislation and therefore the matter is not one which the House should or could treat lightly. This evening we were in the middle of a debate on defence matters. It has been adjourned because the Attorney-General felt it was necessary for the Parliament to get this Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Bill through in probably 20 minutes. 
I must admit to the nation and to myself that I had never seen this Bill until it was put on my desk. I would be quite uncertain whether I should pass the Bill but knowing the AttorneyGeneral and the Government and knowing what the Government wants to achieve I, as a backbench member, will accept it. This matter concerns a most important thing, that is uranium, and it concerns the courts of New South Wales. Out of courtesy and as a member of the Parliament of this nation I am surprised that I am asked to vote, or not to vote, on a matter of this nature. Nevertheless, knowing the AttorneyGeneral and knowing that this Government would do nothing improper or would not ask honourable members - 
Honourable members opposite can say what they like. A case is coming up shortly in another court. Do not make any comments because we do not know what will be said in the court in Queanbeyan about conspiracy. But I will certainly agree with what the AttorneyGeneral has put in his short explanation and which I am prepared to accept. I hope that on another occasion honourable members will be allowed to examine legislation of this sort and will be allowed rather more than S minutes in which to pass it. 
-For the first time, I must agree that I have never seen proposed to a Parliament legislation which could not be challenged to any court by reason  of failure to comply with the provisions. 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
It is now no longer possible to go on reading about all the nonsense written about our Australian Constitution and the events of last year without making some protest. What the Queen can or cannot do in England has only marginal relevance to us here. Our Constitution is clearly written down in the Act of 1901 whereas the constitution of England is entirely a matter of practise and custom. One look at the authority on our Constitution,  Quick and Garran,  will convince most people with the barest understanding of constitutional law that it is based on the Dominion of Canada Act and 2 ideas taken from the Constitutions of Switzerland and the United States of America. 
The tripartite system is absolutely clear. Chapter 1 of the Constitution states simply that there shall be the Queen, a Senate and a House of Representatives- in that order. The House of Representatives was created to look after all Australians. The Senate was created to look after the interests of the States. Therefore both Houses have equal powers except that the Senate may only defer or reject a Supply Bill; it cannot alter it. 
The Federation would never have succeeded if the Senate had not been created. Its purpose is clear and simple. It was designed to make sure that at any time no one State or combination of States could dominate the Federation. Therefore to get rid of the Senate would immediately place Victoria and New South Wales, because of their political numbers, in political power. Such a situation would not be tolerated by South Australia, Western Australia, Queensland or even the Northern Territory. The Constitution even makes provisions for a deadlock. This is clearly laid down and is clearly to be observed. What are the reserve powers? Apparently the nation does not know them. The Governor-General has them and can use them in time of emergency. I draw attention to section 5 of part I which states: 
The Govenor-General may appoint such times for holding the sessions of Parliament as he thinks fit. 
He may from time to time, by proclamation or otherwise, prorogue the Parliament and likewise dissolve the House of Representatives as he thinks fit. The real problem is that nobody has taught our children the Constitution. Therefore, if we do not understand the issues, it is our own fault. The High Court was created to concern itself with any matter or any irregularity in the Constitution. That is why at the present time the Opposition has never brought any case against the Governor-General or the Chief Justice of the High Court. All this year the former Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, has complained that the Governor-General acted wrongly.  Mr Whitlam  went to Buckingham Palace and suffered a Chinese earthquake. He came to the conclusion that, after all, it was the fault of  Sir Garfield  Barwick. The Labor Caucus tried to do something absolutely ridiculous. It tried to have the Chief Justice of the High Court impeached. The Labor Party is now running around calling for a republic and asking this nation to tear up the Constitution which protects the States and protects the liberties of every Australian. I say this: Those whom the ancient Gods wish to destroy, they first send mad. Whereas we are perfectly willing to agree that the Constitution could be revised, nobody with any sense of responsibility could possibly agree that the Constitution is valid and sensible and should not be altered without the concurrence of the entire nation. 
-From my experience in other parts of the world, I can assure the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that what has been moved and supported is correct. 
In some cases it is essential. It would not be difficult for the Government to listen to what it has been told and to consider this amendment as one which is of some importance to us all. Therefore, I support what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  have said as there are, I know, people in the world who do not want registration of what are their private beliefs and customs. Without any offence to the Government, this amendment could easily be carried. 
I think a point has been raised here which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  will well understand when this Bill is debated in the other place. I hope the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who will be in charge of the Bill, to look at this clause extremely carefully because it questions our rights in relation to what we have responsibility for when compared with State rights. When it comes to wildlife and certain other aspects I believe the Commonwealth should soil hold that power. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 74 (Application of laws of Northern Territory to Aboriginal land) 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
) Congratulates the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Government on altering the Australian currency rate by 17 per cent, swiftly, sufficiently and in secret in order to preserve Australia's international trading position and the nation 's foreign exchange held by the Reserve Bank; 
Applauds the fact that most Australian mining, manufacturing and rural industries will become more competitive in world markets; 
Calls on the Government to persevere with its policy to restructure company and personal income tax in order to avoid penalising overtime, efficiency, profit and business success; and 
Therefore express its confidence in the Government's integrity to reduce inflation and to seek the co-operation of all sections of the community and, in particular, of trade unionists who understand both the wage rate structures and the employment situation at this critical time of national economic recovery. 
I am glad to have a few moments to discuss the national treasures that are lying off our coast, not only the west coast but also in Victoria. This is a moment, of course, to congratulate the Pigott Committee for what it has discovered and what it has done to bring the attention of the nation to marine archaeology and to a sense of responsibility for our early history. Off the coast of Warrnambool there lies what is known historically as the  Mahogany Ship.  About 8 years ago Dame Mabel Brookes drew my attention to this particular ship and suggested that further exploration should be undertaken in that area. I went down to see what remained of the  Mahogany Ship.  Of course, all honourable members want to know what the  Mahogany Ship  is supposed to be. Spaniards based on Lima made very many voyages to the South Pacific. One vessel, the  Santa Isabella,  from Mendana's expedition was lost in 1393. The question is: Did this ship happen to go aground east of Warrnambool? The Captain in charge of Belfast or, as it is now called, Port Fairy, Captain Mills, recorded in his annals having seen the ship on the hummocks east of Gorman's Lane. Therefore, I went down to look at the area and to find out as much as I could about this very early boat. The boat's galley lock was produced from Warrnambool museum. A shaving was taken from the lock - 
I mean a metal shaving from the lock. I am referring to the galley lock of the ship. Does the honourable member for Newcastle understand my meaning? 
-The honourable member for Newcastle is a tremendous sailor. A shaving from the galley lock was sent to Birmingham University to ascertain the actual date of the metal. I was surprised to learn that the metal of the supposed galley lock of the  Mahogany Ship  could not have been earlier than about 1770. One then researched the wood. The story is that the early whalers down there pillaged the ship. I do not really believe that happened, but that is the story. One would find in the various houses of the early whalers evidence of this ship. I visited 2 houses and with the permission of the house owners I took a shaving of the wood. Also I moved across to Captain Mills' house. It is sad to think of it. The house of the early harbour master of Port Fairy or Belfast, whatever we wish to call it, is just a ruin. I went into it to try to understand why the National Trust had not preserved it. The Trust just had not bothered. The wood was interesting and seemed to compare with that of the old houses belonging to the whalers. Shavings of this wood were sent off to Princes Risborough in Britain, where wood and trees are analysed to determine their age. The wood was analysed and it was found that the wood was not earlier than about 1720. The wood which I found in the house of the whalers was of much later date, about 1870. It was a Tasmanian hardwood. This proved, as far as I was concerned, that the early whalers, the Mahoneys and the Hentys, and the other families there, had not pillaged the ship. 
Let me now discuss the question raised by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  Had anybody from a white nation come ashore and entered Australia? I draw the honourable member's attention to the book  Riders of Time  by Dame Mabel Brookes. She notes that a black gin, Jim Caine 's second wife Nellie, had completely divergent features and colouring- not that of the usual half caste. She was from the Yangary tribe. Nobody yet has been able to prove one way or the other whether this ship came ashore and whether the Yangarys had Spanish blood in them. It would be very useful if some research was done into the matter by universities. Of course, those who went out as settlers travelled with all the implements necessary for farming and to set up a colony. It is presumed therefore that people coming ashore from any ship would be allowed by the Aborigines to work in peace. There is quite a lot of research work to be done in this area particularly with relatives from the Yangary tribe. 
This  Mahogany Ship  caused a great deal of excitement. It was viewed in 1836. It was viewed again in 1849. The Royal Geographical Society in 1891 set aside an enormous sum of money- 50- as a reward for anybody who discovered anything more about this vessel. What am I getting at? I know that people from 2 universities nave been down to the area with buckets and spades. I have seen signs of other school expeditions in the area. I have discussed the matter with  Sir Alfred  Oppenheimer from South Africa. We think that the only way to find the ship is to use a sand pump to take away the sand and thereby uncover the ship. I suggest to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  that he takes the greatest possible care to declare the area east of Gorman's Lane one of the areas where they may or may not be one of these famous ships which will be important to our history. 
What further research did I undertake? It seemed to me that local stories were quite extraordinary. It has been established by the Colonial Office, for example, that an official naval officer was sent down to write a report concerning the  Mahogany Ship.  That report was never published in the Colonial Office. A Spanish sword, found in Belfast Harbour, was to be sent to the Mitchell Library in Sydney. That sword never reached Sydney. Spanish corns were found as a gift in the local church. It all goes to show that there is something of interest to us in that area. 
I do not think that Dame Mabel Brookes got it exactly right. I feel the ship was built in 1 8 12 and was involved in the Napoleonic Wars. By her construction I would think she was probably built in Panama. The big mahogany panelling on the side of the ship puzzled  Mrs Manifold  and baffled the early harbour master. I think therefore the ship could have been constructed in Panama. That conclusion would seem to fit in well with the time factor. She probably ran aground during the Napoleonic Wars. She was probably carrying Spanish coin and coming back towards Europe at the time when Spain became involved in the Napoleonic Wars. 
This is not the only wreck of importance off the coast of Victoria. Off the entrance of Port Bay Bay there is a large number. I do not understand why Victoria does not have an Act of Parliament similar to the one in Western Australia. I suggest that the Minister consult the Victorian Government to endeavour to have the left and right heads of that harbour declared another zone where only people who are authorised can go and look for what they think to be treasure. Unfortunately those people's idea of treasure is not the same as that of a marine archaeologist. All they want to do is see whether there is a quid in it, or gold coins or something there which they can exchange. We need most of all more accurate information where these ships lie and in particular their age. I think the research should be handled by universities or by those who are competent to do the work. I am not against any amateur organisation joining up with a university team and doing the exploration work. 
I do not want to detain the House any longer. I think the Bill is an extremely valuable one. I must congratulate the Opposition for appointing the Pigott Committee and for its part in bringing this Bill before the House tonight. I hope that what I have said shows that most Australians, including myself, are deeply interested in our history and would hate to think that something of value was lost through the negligence or incapacity of a person to understand what he was actually handling when using his diving kit and going into a ship. 
I suppose it would be polite if I extended my congratulations to the  Clerk  of the House who will retire before this House meets again. He is the third  Clerk  with whom I have worked. The others were  Sir Edward  Fellows,  Sir Barnet  Cocks and now  Mr Norman  Parkes. The only advice that a  Clerk  of the House ever gave me as a member is one which I always remember. It was: 'When you are thinking of the Opposition or those who oppose you, you are only opposing their opinions; you are not opposing them personally'. In that spirit, on behalf of myself and my electors, I extend good wishes to the  Clerk  of the House and to members of this honourable House. I have enjoyed participating in the debate on this Bill. I look forward to taking part in other discussions at a later time. 
-In questioning clause 2, could I try to obtain some understanding from the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  Would this legislation apply to an area that was submerged in 1802 but is not submerged now? Would that land which is now not submerged come under State jurisdiction? 
-For a few moments this evening I would like to follow on with what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has said. My remarks involve very much, without any reflection on the Chair, how the House manages to conduct its business and particularly your position,  Mr Speaker,  and the problems that you have to face as our representative and as our protector of the back benches with our traditions and all we stand for. It worries me when I think of the pressure of work that falls upon the  Clerk  of the House and I sometimes wonder whether you and the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  would during the course of this session of Parliament examine with some interest whether the interests of the backbenchers are, in fact, being protected as against the interests of the Executive. It has been a standing tradition of the backbench members of the Parliament to protect their powers from being eroded by the Executive. The members of the Executive have all the facilities possible. We backbenchers do not have those facilities. Unless you,  Mr Speaker,  and the Leader of the House are prepared to protect our interests we shall not be able to do our duty to protect the interests of our own electors in many fields. 
As you well know,  Mr Speaker,  there have been occasions upon which question time, which is ours by tradition and during which we can question members of the Executive and, of course, as can the Opposition, has been eroded totally by long statements from the Treasury bench. Ministers could be asked quite easily to make these statements after the question time. Then, perhaps with your leave,  Mr Speaker,  the Minister concerned could be questioned on the statement that he has made. Of course, there would be no debate arising from such a statement. I am disturbed that it has not been possible for me and for many other honourable members to put questions of urgent public importance to you because of the limitation placed upon question time. I believe that question time is the one way in which we can protect the rights of the people whom we are here to represent. 

 Mr Speaker, the Standing Orders are your prerogative and it is your Committee- the Standing Orders Committee- that discusses them. I am not clear when that Committee last met during the last session of the Parliament or what matters were brought to its attention. I feel that perhaps it would be suitable if at some time we could hear from you the changes that have been proposed by that Standing Orders Committee and the attitude of the House towards them. I am sympathetic with the Leader of the House, who obviously wants to get his business through. That is quite understandable. But the Leader of the House must understand also that we are here for one purpose after support of the Government and that is to care for those and for the interests of those who sent us here. I want to say tonight on my second year in this House that in the course of the past session of Parliament I had some doubts whether I had been able to exercise the normal duties which I think a backbencher should be able to exercise in relation to question time and debate. I hope,  Mr Speaker,  that your Committee will re-examine the Standing Orders this session. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House should consider an appropriate resolution expressing its profound regret at the death of the Archbishop of Uganda. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom). 
-The speech we have just heard from the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was one of great oratory and great feeling which we must admire, but I am wondering whether when he reads it tomorrow he will not conclude that he was addressing a meeting in Welshpool in 1870. I apologise to honourable members who have a Welshpool in their electorate. The honourable member for Hindmarsh certainly fell into it tonight. He may talk about the enormous power of the unions, and certainly we respect him but does he imagine that so many people on the Government benches were returned to power without the support of vast numbers of people in the trade unions? How stupid could an intelligent man be? He is intelligent. He is exceptionally intelligent and kind. He was defending a position which I respect. He said that the law of tort shall not apply in a union dispute, and it should not so apply. I think the Attorney-General and others in the United States of America who are interested in union law would question the premise that no trade unionist shall be subject to the law of tort. I would have thought that the distinguished member for Hindmarsh, who must know the union laws in the United States, would know that the law of contract would apply to  Mr Fraseur  or to  Mr Walter  Reuther if he signed a contract. The honourable member tried to draw a very clever political line betwen tort and contract. 
I know. I accept it and I do not mind debating it with the honourable member. If we in the Government Parties are going to gaol trade unionists- that is, to bring criminal charges against them- then of course the honourable member has a point. If this legislation is going to do it, then he has a very important debating matter for the nation. I am open to discussion on it. My own view is that if unions contract with an employer that contract should be subject to the common law. But he knows very well, and so does the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  that by English history he has got out of the English common law and he has got out of the common law of Australia because unions are classified as friendly societies and therefore the employers cannot bring an action against them in contract. Therefore, whatever premise they start on, they are starting on a privileged premise that a unionist and a union are outside the normal ambit of the common law. I have never met a trade unionist who has never conceded that point. Let us start from there. Don't you dare accuse me of being a union basher. 
You, the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Don't you ever dare in this House accuse me of union bashing. 
-The honourable member for Hindmarsh can look after himself without the intervention of the honourable member for Corio, who should sit down and mind his own business. The honourable member for Hindmarsh knows perfectly well what the situation is in this country. Unionists in this country do not want confrontation. I can name only about 4 trade union officials who would like a confrontation. This country cannot afford a confrontation. The honourable member knows it and the Government knows it. Therefore we seek the cooperation of the trade union movement. The majority of unionists who work in the factories in my electorate- the factories of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd, International Harvester Australia Ltd, Sperry Rand Australia Ltd and all the rest of them- are not going to be led a dance by any person in this House trying to persuade them to have a confrontation. Neither do I believe the treasury bench is seeking a confrontation with the unions at this critical time. How can we recover as a nation if we have a union confrontation? What a ridiculous idea! We cannot do it. We cannot afford it, and we know it. Therefore, please do not accuse us of trying to bash the unions in any way. The honourable member may say that this legislation is disagreeable. He has a chance to amend it. But I do not believe union members want a confrontation with the Government; neither do I believe the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wants a confrontation with the unions. 
-When did he say he wanted it. 
I ask the members of the Opposition: When has the Prime Minister said he wants a confrontation? 
-Of course, if the Deputy Leader of the Opposition keeps saying 'Oh' he will never become Leader of the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Holt address his remarks to the Chair and that interjections cease. 
As I have the floor of this House, I will debate with the Opposition as I desire, and if honourable members want to intervene and argue with me they may certainly do so. After all, are we not here to debate? Are we here to deliver 20-minute orations, sit down and bunk out of the chamber, or are we here as the debating forum of this nation? I propose to debate. Let us continue from there. 
I simply cannot concede that at this critical moment of time there is a single major union which wants confrontation; nor do I believe the treasury bench wants it. The only problem is how to get co-operation from both sides. Is there goodwill from the honourable member for Hindmarsh? Is there goodwill as a result of his speech? I thought his speech was downright destructive. He called for all the grand bans of the unions. He said what they could do. He said that they could even stop the sewage. He called for a revolution. Does this help Australia? No. It is a waste of time. Fancy trying to stop sewage. There is enough of that anyway. The honourable member is trying to play games with us. The Opposition knows perfectly well that if we cannot get cooperation now we will not make a success of the economy during the next 12 months. If they do not want to see the economy succeed, if they want to create more unemployment, they should get up and say so. Do they want to create more unemployment? Do they want to destroy the economy? Is that their aim? Is it the aim of that front bench to cause union disruption, to cause trouble, to damage the economy? 
Debate interrupted. 
We will therefore now continue the debate. I am putting a question. Does the Opposition wish to see more unemployment? Why does the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions start saying that there will be- how many- one million unemployed by the end of the year? Why does the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  say that there will be inflation up to 16 per cent? What is he trying to achieve? He is just adding more fuel to destroy and divide the nation. 
The honourable member must work that out for himself. All I am saying is that I want to be quite certain that this country understands what the Opposition's policy is. So far it has been carefully disguised. If the Opposition is calculating to create trouble, disharmony, more unemployment, more confusion, more chaos, so that foreign industrialists do not invest in this country- I want industrialists to invest in my area and I want at least 3 companies to expand- the sooner the Opposition tells the country what its aim is, the better. Honourable members have the right to oppose. I am certain that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  when he is not listening to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  will know that he has the right to oppose. He can oppose in any way he wants so long as he does not destroy the nation in his opposition and so long as he has some constructive policies to put before the nation. So far I have not heard from that front bench any major policy which would assist the national recovery. 
I feel that honourable members opposite are looking for trouble. Their policy is to spend money. Of course they can buy themselves out of trouble. They are always looking for more disharmony. So they should not call me a union basher. I am looking for harmony. I am looking for progress and I am looking for co-operation. If they cannot give it us there are many unionists who will give it us. I can say that there are thousands in my area who will ignore them. The Opposition can have the unions. It can go on as hard as it likes. But when the unionists ' wives tell them what is going on- I know what I am talking about; I walk around a bit- they want work. The Opposition knows it. Do they want work or not? 
Yes, but I am not. I do not come from Enoch Powell's area. I liked him but he was not that hot. The honourable member for Hindmarsh knows that I was getting too near the bone. That is why he said 'Enoch Powell'. He wanted to try to detract from what I was saying. There are many people in my area who cannot afford a strike. They know it and the Opposition knows it. They do not want a strike. They do not want to see a loss of wages. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  can talk to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  as much as he likes but there are thousands of unionists in this country who are not prepared to listen to that jabber from over there. What is more, there are many people sitting on those benches who really know what they feel. Do not try to tell me that I do not know what they feel. I work in these areas and I know that they are worried about the security of their jobs. Are honourable members  opposite  helping by some of their statements about the security of their jobs? No, they are not. They are trying to cause malaise and difficulty at a critical time for the nation. 
I will say this: When it comes dme to judge between our policies now and the polices which the Opposition is advocating, the average rank and file worker in industry in my area will say that what this Government is doing for them is right. It may not be good for the Opposition's policies to get back into power, but these people have wages to collect and commitments to meet. They think that the policies of this front bench are absolutely right. Recently an American director of Massey-Ferguson came to open a $ lm new plant at Noble Park. This new plant is creating more jobs. He said one thing about this nation that was interesting. He said: 'I travel. I am in Geneva. I am in London and I study the world and economics. I am amazed at the progress Australia has made during the last 3 years. Wherever I go cranes are building, more factories are going up and everything is going well. The only thing is that I cannot understand the Press.' So I wonder how many people are working against what is obviously the good of the nation, and what is actually happening. I say this to the honourable member for Hindmarsh: He can make as many speeches as he wants here but the rank and file worker at General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and in the factories that I deal with do not want any confrontation. 
They will not, and they will not have it. They do not want any confrontation. What they want is a 3-year wage stability contract as workers have m the United States of America so that they know they have security of employment for 3 years. There is nothing like a system of job security. The whole problem is that Opposition members still work on the old system of 1900, trying to kill industry, trying to kill private enterprise and take it over. Trie average worker does not want that. What he wants is production, profit and job security. He is going to get that, not from those people from over there who seek to destroy industry; he is going to get it from these benches here, as we realise that job security and profit making is as important for them as it is for the nation. 
Nobody in the trade unions need worry about what the Opposition is saying for political reasons. They should understand that we are trying to work for job stability and production. That is exactly what our country needs. If we need to use the American system of trade union law and practice, then we ought to use it. I congratulate the Minister on what he has been saying. I congratulate the Treasury. I know that the majority of the nation will simply erase the speeches of Opposition members because they are talking politics. They are not talking for the rank and file worker in any factory in this nation. 
-When the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  replies he will have realised from views put in this House that some of us are very anxious about the application of standing order 151 which concerns supplementary questions. The matter has been raised in the House on 2 occasions. I hope that when the Minister replies he will tell us whether the Standing Orders Committee has examined the subject of question time in this House and whether it has examined the possibility of allowing members to question a Minister after he has made a statement. Reports of the Standing Orders Committee, which we are discussing now, are important and relevant to us. I hope the Minister will indicate whether he has had a chance to look at these matters or whether the Committee has done so. 
I direct to the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question which refers to a statement he made in this House and particularly that part dealing with the world-wide movement of uranium oxide. What are in fact the present effective safeguards applied to transactions in and international movement and exports of uranium? What specific steps has he taken to improve the system? When and where did he take them and what results were achieved? Will he also ask for the support of the New Zealand Government in his efforts? 
-For the second time I seek your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to draw your attention to the difficulty which the House is experiencing in regard to what may or may not be discussed because the discussion of some matter might directly prejudice a case which is before the court and which is in the process of trial. Yesterday evening during the adjournment debate the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  for whom I have every respect, wished to raise a matter of public importance and attempted to table a copy of an agreement between - 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House: 
Expresses its concern at the recent and increasing practice of personal and offensive attacks being made on the honesty and integrity of members of the Australian Bar in order to discredit them in the eyes of the court and the jury at a time when they are directly involved in appearing before the courts on behalf of their clients who are either standing for trial or are involved in legal proceedings; and 
Invites the Standing Orders Committee to recommend amendments to the Standing Orders so that the reputation and the honour of the members of the Bar will not be discussed in debate when they are at that time appearing in the courts of law in Australia. 
-The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  has done the House a very great service by extending the scope of the discussion in the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill 1977 by taking extreme points of view so that we can look at the Bill with great care. The honourable member for Scullin must be one of those who must now regret that there is no standing committee of this House to which a Bill of this sort which involves extra-territoriality, private international law, civil liberties and diplomatic relations, can be sent. There was never a Bill such as this that would have provided the opportunity for the House to deliberate on it in a standing committee on law. At the present moment we nave no opportunity to do so, and therefore we have to do our very best. 
I must admire the courage of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott).  He has provided the very first Bill which I have known in history which concerns all the world. Honourable members should take note that every foreign country is referred to. In its definitions clause the Bill states: foreign country' means any country outside Australia. 
The provisions of the Bill extend to every territory, including, I suppose, the penguins in Antarctica where we have extra-territorial rights. The second half of the Bill which is an honest attempt to deal with the main problem- that is to try to avoid this nation providing recruits for foreign armies- is commendable. 
The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  rightly pointed out that we have a large number of migrant groups in this country. I do not think people understand quite the complexity of the situation. There are 152 ethnic groups in Victoria alone. It would have been better if the House had had an opportunity of studying the findings of the Diplock Committee and also of seeing what lessons were to be learned from the long and learned study that was made by that Committee. Therefore I do not myself complain about the Attorney-General's excellent efforts in relation to clause 9, clause 10, clause 12 and clause 15 of the Bill. Naturally one would question the power which he is taking unto himself under this Bill. I would have thought that the remark made by Lord Acton was correct. The House should not increase the power of the executive but should try to diminish it. The Bill puts the Attorney-General in a very powerful position indeed. 
Having said that, let me now look at the first part of the Bill. This is an attempt to legislate for our nationals who are in another country. From what source do we actually obtain such a right? I have for a long time been trying to find it, and I believe it arises from the Statute of Westminster under Schedule 3 which reads: 
It is hereby declared and enacted that the Parliament of a dominion has full power to make laws having extra territorial operation. 
I turn now to some of the other decisions that have been made, particularly those concerning efforts to tax those people who are not in this country- efforts to claim extra-territorial rights in taxation. In the case of  Morgan  v.  White  it was quite clearly declared that it is not competent for this country to attempt to tax anyone or anyone 's property outside this country. That decision was based on the good old maxim: No taxation without representation. However, I suppose I ought to refer to the Constitution and try to find that part which gives us the right to pass legislation in relation to Australians abroad. Section 5 1 of the Constitution reads: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: 
As I look through what follows I see that the Parliament can deal with bankruptcy, foreign corporations formed within the Commonwealth, service of executions throughout the Commonwealth in civil and criminal proceedings. In trying to find anywhere in the Constitution that gives this Parliament the right to pass legislation in relation to Australians living in another country, I eventually came upon section 51, placitum (xxix) which reads: 
External affairs: 
I do not know whether the Attorney-General will be able to enlighten the House whether the power to legislate in this way exists. I express some very grave doubts about passing legislation of this sort. I ask the Attorney-General: Are we required to pass this legislation by any resolution which we have voted for at the United Nations? Has any member of the Commonwealth at a Commonwealth legal conference asked members of the Commonwealth to pass legislation of this sort? I inquire of the Attorney-General whether we are the one courageous nation that is passing laws which would affect people who have been in this country for 12 months and have gone to another country making them subject to 10 years imprisonment if they return here. 
Let us take some practical cases of how things might arise. Say one had had one's property stolen in The Lebanon because there was a change of government there and one went to Victoria and stayed with one's family for one year. One heard that the situation was getting better but another Government had of course taken over one 's property and had placed guards outside it. One went back and one tried, using the ordinary system of recaption, to take back one's possessions and with a few friends in the evening time one said: 'OK, I am going to enter my old house and I am going to remove from my old home the various possessions I once had'. But of course one was acting against the Government of that country. If in the rush going out one knocked over the policeman at the door, actually injured him and tore his uniform, what would happen when one got back to Australia? It would be 10 years imprisonment. That is quite a serious matter. 
Take another simple case. Say a change of government occurred in Greece, one came to Australia for a short term of 12 months, stayed with one's family and went back to one's old hotel. One had kept one's health quite well and one thought it was safe to go back. One or two of one's friends arrived and had a discussion in the hall. One heard over the cups of coffee and the ouzo that they were actually thinking of being able to change the government, something which some Greeks think of almost every day of the week. Of course under this clause of the Bill what was one doing? Can we be certain? One in fact was in a building, one was the owner or occupier- one might even have been the night watchman, the superintendent- and one knowingly permitted one's friends to go into that room with the object of discussing how the Government could be overthrown; one was actually making suggestions that people might be hurt or something might happen which would injure other people. 
-Clause 10 (3) would probably get around the situation. However if one returns to Australia to rejoin one's family after having had the discussion, what would happen? It would be 10 years imprisonment. I am just taking a few ordinary, practical things that might happen as a result of the legislation as laid down in this Bill in clauses 6 and 7. 1 am interested also that the penalties for actions abroad are 14 years and 10 years but in another clause of the BUI there is provision for a fine of $10,000. 1 wonder why there is the difference of penalty. Are we trying to pay off the deficit by raising money in this way? A penalty of $10,000 or 5 years imprisonment is provided. Why is there the difference in penalty in the different clauses of the Bill? By what criterion has the Attorney-General decided on those penalties? 
I do not want the Attorney-General to run away and to think that I am being hostile about the matter at all. I think this is one of the most important pieces of legislation which I have read for some time. I should like to close by saying in honesty to the Opposition that I cannot accept its amendment as it stands at present. It is far too simplistic. I hope that this Bill will receive substantial amendment, and will be gone through clause by clause by a committee in another place. But I have to commend the Attorney-General for a brave effort to put into legislative form things which many of us really and seriously desire. The whole problem of people apparently running camps, other nations recruiting or other nations trying to find terrorists in Australia is one which fills the public with alarm and dismay. Therefore I think we can congratulate the AttorneyGeneral on what he has achieved. I hope that the Bill will receive most careful attention in another place. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that many of my constituents who are carters and drivers are now without any work whatsoever because of an exceptionally damaging strike by cement workers? Will he be kind enough to tell the House what is the position concerning the cement strike which is holding to ransom the building industry throughout my area? 
-One of the difficult problems that anybody in charge of education has to deal with is the staffing of schools. I am particularly worried about this matter. Tonight I want to talk about 2 high schools in my electorate which face this problem. When school numbers fall the principle of the school must automatically realise that the percentage of staff that he has will be downgraded and therefore he has to reallocate his staff to the number of children in the school. That is not a bad principle. I am deeply concerned about 2 schools in my area. 
I ask the honourable member to allow me to look after my own electors. I am sure he can honourably look after his. Doveton High School is not in a very advantageous position nor is Hallam High School. They have inherited a problem of dealing with those who have difficulty in English and communication. They have taken a great deal of trouble to provide programs of education which will help to assist children coming from other schools. They now want to be able to improve their means of teaching English and English communication. It is rather sad to think therefore that the Government of Victoria has had difficulty in providing not only these 2 schools but also another primary school in Springvale with remedial teachers in English. I do not understand how this has happened. I do not understand why the funds for the teaching of remedial English and for teaching other remedial subjects cannot be provided by the Government of Victoria. 
I have had discussions with the staff of all the schools concerned. On Thursday last there was a meeting of all the teachers from these areas at the Camberwell Civic Centre. The meeting brought to my attention the problems affecting their schools. I feel that the Minister for Education in another place,  Senator Carrick,  ought to be able, through the Schools Commission, to provide funds for those schools which are in a disadvantaged position or which are trying to help pupils who have difficulty in English, mathematics or migrant languages. That is the first major problem. I cannot understand why funds are not available for this essential element in schooling in Victoria. 
I also understand that when an American physical education teacher from Minnesota who is at Doveton High School goes back to the United States of America he cannot be replaced. Why can a physical education teacher not be replaced? If an English teacher leaves why can he also not be replaced? I therefore told the school, the parents and the school councils involved that I think it is not correct that the Minister for Education, through the Schools Commission, cannot assist schools which have these serious problems in staffing. I have heard also that perhaps the way in which some of the members of the staff have dealt with their problems by appearing on television and by writing to the Press has not helped their case. But I think that anybody in the field of education should be able to express his views freely. All I ask tonight is that the Commonwealth Minister for Education and the Minister for Education in Victoria do their best to assist the Doveton High School, the Hallam High School and the school in Springvale with their staffing problems because the provision of adequate staffing is urgent, necessary and important for the children in my electorate. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House considers that in the interests of the nation Australia Day shall as from 1978, be celebrated on Anzac Day of the same year, and that a private members' Bill be introduced to enable this to take place. 
-I think the House will have very much appreciated the thoughtful address just delivered by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who was a former Minister for Education. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, has reminded me that section 32F of the Act to which the honourable member referred was repealed last year especially to allow bilingual education in north-west Australia. 
Perhaps the honourable member and I could have a private discussion on this outside the House and settle it together. When I travelled to Western Australia, the honourable member's State, with the Government Parties Education Committee. I was certainly most agreeably impressed by the large number of colleges. We wondered whether one of the problems would be a duplication of a number of courses. I am certain that some of the courses offered at the Western Australian School of Technology would be of great interest to the Department of Education. We looked at similar courses being offered in other education establishments in the same area. What I am saying is that the giving away of millions of dollars by the Australian Labor Government did not necessarily solve the problem. I am not being uncharitable in this, but I ask: How much of that money went to the Aboriginal children and to the schools for Aborigines? How much of that money went to improve migrant education? I should like to see established a college of ethnic education- a whole college specifically devoted to the purpose sought in the report. I should like to think that the Opposition would have mentioned this a long time ago. Let us stop trying to throw money across the chamber at one another to prove that somebody has done something for either the Aboriginal children or the migrant children. 
I went up to examine the schools in the Bathurst Island area. One of the most distressing things I saw was that, whilst there were beautiful buildings like the Kormilda College where the ratio of teachers to pupils was excellent in every way, there was a lack of facilities in the outback area and at the stations where the Aborigines were really being taught. I much appreciated the secondary school correspondence scheme which had been undertaken by some of the Aboriginal children as a result of the co-operation between the South Australian Government and the Northern Territory authorities. I will not make the same sort of Macbeth venomous speech which we heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Let him stir his old kettle pot and talk to Hecate, Banquo's ghost and all the witches who are hunting him now. 
I would like to say one or two things about this report of the Committee on the Teaching of Migrant Languages in Schools. It is absolutely correct. It calls for a larger number of bilingual teachers in the schools and a concentration on areas where there is a high percentage of migrant students. Let me take as an example the St Mary's Secondary High School at Fitzroy. Every message sent home with a pupil attending that school is written in 2 languages, and the child has to explain to the parent what is the message from the headmaster,  Mr Roy  Barlow. That is a good example of what is happening at one school. I invite honourable members to go and look at what is happening. I am sure that the honourable member for Fremantle, the former Minister, has seen the work done in his time as Minister. I congratulate him on what was done. A library paid for with Commonwealth funds was built at the school and many other changes were made in this migrant area of Fitzroy. These things are a credit to the Party opposite. But it does not do honourable members opposite any good to make speeches like the one made by the Leader of the Opposition this afternoon. He complained about the length of time taken in presenting the report and what has happened since its presentation. I understand that the report was tabled in December. 
Let us have a look at what the Victorian Government did. It wanted to increase the number of migrant teachers in Victorian schools. On 1 1 January, a team went out to Greece for the very purpose of making sure that we have more teachers of the Greek language in the schools. The members of the team interviewed 50 people and now thirteen of them have arrived in Australia. They are qualified teachers and they will assist not only in the teaching of the Greek and English languages but also in maths and science. Yes, they arrived last week. Yes, they are at work in the schools now. I am showing the Opposition exactly what happened when one of" the governments practising the new federalism started to work on this report. It is only a beginning. We do not say that it is magnificent, but at least it is a start. That is the position in the secondary schools. 
The primary schools present a little more of a problem. I am very glad to say that I have just had a talk with  Mr Ian  Adams, the director of ethnic education in Victoria. He has said that, thanks again to the National Employment and Training scheme- a very good operationmigrant people who have been teachers in the past have attended the Toorak College. They have improved their English and improved their understanding of teaching. Sixteen such people are now going out to give advice on migrant teaching programs in primary schools. It should have been done years ago. Perhaps it should have been done in the time when the honourable member for Fremantle was the Minister for Education. But at least this report has started off a serious feeling of concern about the teaching of migrant children in primary schools. I do not think that the problems are understood properly. There are about 1 52 different migrant groups in Victoria alone. 
The only thing that rather spoiled the speech of my friend, the honourable member for 
Fremantle, was his reference to some attitudes towards people who speak another language. I am very glad to say that in the area from which I come that attitude is dying and is almost dead. For example, on Australia Day this year eleven of the ethnic groups came together to celebrate Australia Day. Each raised their own flag after the Australian flag was raised. This happened at the first international all-day ethnic celebration. Each group had its own tent in various corners of the field in Dandenong. Everybody was allowed to go around, observe and take part in their cultures. The concept that we in this country could insist on enforcing our culture on people whose culture goes back over centuries is a very unpleasant form of snobbery of which I simply cannot approve. It is now totally out of date. There is now no compunction on anybody of any ethnic group not to feel at home in Australia in his own community and enjoying the life we have to offer in Australia. The vulgar jibe was made that the object of the Liberal Party- a Party whose philosophy is based on that of Greece and humanity- was to drop off the migrants at Tullamarine airport or somewhere beyond Woop  WOOD or Wollongong and leave them. That is a complete denial of the whole philosophy which the Liberal Party stands for. Therefore, all I can say to the Leader of the Opposition is that his speech stands condemned. I have a worry that the spirit of Enoch Powell, his Greek teacher, has got into his soul. Has it turned his soul to steel and iron and in his old days is he beginning to complain and to make harsh remarks about this generation? I give to him the advice contained in the old expression: Physician heal thyself. He should not come into the House and make such ridiculous speeches which do damage to his Party and damage to the very teaching which Enoch Powell gained from ancient Greece. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the good relations that the directors of General Motors-Holden's have established over the years with union leaders in Victoria, will the Minister inform the House what progress has been made concerning negotiations to avoid redundancies in either the plant at Dandenong or the spare parts division? 
I do not wish to take up the time of the House on the subject of first class travel for public servants. I want to deal with some of the more first class problems that affect some of the more moderate people in my own electorate. The Shire of Cranbourne was created in 1868 and by 1967 it had a population of 10 000. It is surprising to note that today it has a population of 25 000. The average annual increase in population is 8 per cent. Last year the increase was over 10 per cent. A total of 500 houses were completed last year- a 400 per cent increase from 1967. These facts alone show the speed of the development in the shire and naturally it has brought some serious problems to local government administration. 
Yes, a very fine racecourse. The town plan prepared in 1975 deals with all stages of development up to 1980 and beyond. The shire council is trying to work on this plan. What a wonderful idea! But I know how complicated this matter is for them because for planning purposes the shire is neatly divided into 2 sections and has 2 planning authorities. The northern half is controlled by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works and the southern half by the Western Port Regional Council Planning Authority. Who would like to be in an area that has 2 overall planning authorities? 
The list of responsibilities of the shire are planning roads, sewerage, drainage, pre-school and infant welfare, libraries, social services and recreation. The shire council has an indirect interest in transport and the rail service. The rail service should not be called a service to Cranbourne it should be called a hazard. It is obvious that the financial implications are so complicated that the Council has been able to complete only the first section of the sewerage plan alone and has had to go to its bankers for an extra $ lm on loan account. It must be added that the council is also responsible for all the drainage as far as Koo Wee Rup and Tooradin as well as Langwarrin and it is obliged to respect yet another planning authority- the State Environment Protection Authority which looks after all effluent discharged into Western Port Bay. Owing to recent wage increases the council must now seek yet another $ 1.65m from its bankers in order to proceed with its town plan at the present moment. 
I would draw to the attention of the Government the fact that this area is in need of help. Firstly, I refer to the roads in the new town area from the town to Western Port Bay. In passing I must thank the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for some of his help. But what we need is more money. Secondly, I refer to funds that are needed for recreation and youth and a sporting centre. So far money has been raised locally but not enough has been forthcoming from the Victorian Government even though we invited the Premier of Victoria recently to have a good dinner in Cranbourne. Help will also be required in funding social services for the aged. 
Finally, I must draw the attention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to the fact that Australia Post has been trying to resite the Cranbourne Post Office over the past 5 years. I would suggest that Australia Post should relocate the post office in the new shopping centre. It should not locate the post office on a road with cul-de-sac parking with one entry to the Gippsland Highway. I recommend that the town plan be adopted and that the post office be located in the new shopping centre. 
Further, I recommend that the old building become the community centre and civic museum. 
Cranbourne has a devoted and hard working council. The great team of council officers and the local people show great civic pride in their town. I am therefore asking the Federal Government to give them the help that they so richly deserve. I call for a summit meeting between the Federal authorities, the State authority and the shire council as soon as possible. I am grateful for the opportunity I had during the recent recess to examine all the problems at first hand with the shire secretary and the civil engineer,  Mr Clydesdale,  at the request of the shire  president  and his very excellent council. 
My question is directed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Is he aware of the report of  Sir Ernest  Titterton that Australia possesses at least 25 per cent of the world 's proven reserves of uranium oxide? Does this fact alone not put this nation in a unique position to demand control of her own exports? What steps has the Government taken to provide our own enrichment plant and our own waste reprocessing plant? How many Australian inspectors have been appointed to the Atomic Energy Control Commission in Vienna? Who represents this country on that Commission? Who represents this nation on the London Club of users? Would he not agree that if Lord Casey had still been alive we would have been the No. 1 nation in international atomic inspection and control? 
-There must be a number of honourable members in this House as well as many other people outside it who would expect some contribution to be made by and something to be said from the back benches about our 50th anniversary of the opening of this Parliament House. Indeed, great speeches have been made in the King's Hall and we have had a very interesting time recalling the events of those days. But I suggest that it would be amiss if there were nothing on the record of this honourable House to show that somebody was willing to say a few words. Therefore, coming from the other House- the House of Commons- I make no apology for saying that I think it would be sensible and perhaps appropriate if I made some observations this evening. 
I think that the younger people of Australia show a great sense of history. Those who show students around the House, those who have Australia Day students visiting the House, always notice the great interest that they show both in this House and in the other place. Of course as we look to our nation with so many different nationalities from Europe, Africa and Asia, we must agree that our strength lies in our diversity of culture. Perhaps the most enduring virtue of the Commonwealth of Nations of which we are a member is faith- faith in our religious traditions, faith in our honesty of purpose in the world and faith in ourselves. For we are not sent here to waste this planet for our own material ends but to think about and to work for things of spiritual value. I affirm that I have talked to many young Australians and they are quite mindful of the sacrifice that has been made by their grandparents and by their parents. They accept their role that it is not what they want to get out of Australia but what they can give to Australia and their fellow men. They face up to their great role in international order and the international world by sharing our wealth with others who are far more in need than we are. 
Perhaps it would be suitable then to return to the address made by Prime Minister Bruce on 9 May 1927 when this honourable House was opened. He said: 
Today it is our solemn duty to affirm our faith in our country . . . 
He added: 
Today we look back and renew our faith by remembering what has been achieved. Thus we shall strengthen ourselves for the great accomplishment that lies before us. 
Within these portals will be framed those laws which will mould the destiny of a people. May those who enter this open door govern with justice, reason, and equal favour to all . . . May they speak with the voice of those who sent them here- the voice of the people. 
There are some who would disparage the work that is done in this honourable House. There are some who occasionally make criticisms about the work both here and in the Senate, but I assure honourable members in this chamber and I assure those people that the House is here now and will be here always as the guardian of the rights of the people of this nation. 
I agree with the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who passed the remark earlier today that he considered that this debate had been of enormous value not only to honourable members themselves but also to everybody who takes any interest in our future and survival. I was one of the few who worked with the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Wentworth,  in a group of members who were interested in the whole of the nuclear problem facing the nation. I was extremely grateful for the trouble he took to bring the best experts in the land to argue before us the case for and against the problems of. Australia exporting uranium oxide.  
It is now 20 years since I first went to Calder Hall in Cumberland and with a nuclear scientist went through one of the earliest British reactors. I do not think anybody should underestimate the fact that there has been only one nuclear accident in Britain. That was at Windscale when a plutonium operation overheated and was closed down. Nobody should underestimate the problems involved. On the other hand, it is not wise for people to build up fears and terror concerning the nuclear age in which we are all living whether we like it or not. - 
I want to refer to one of the great problems in front of us. When we talk about uranium and nuclear fission and energy the immediate thought in the minds of many people is death and destruction. They say automatically that this nation must not be party to anything involved with destruction. That is a perfectly honourable and moral attitude to take. It is one which must be respected. However, the whole world has so changed since the dropping of the first and second atomic bombs. We must get used to the world in which we are living. I hope I will not bore the House or those who are listening to me if I tell honourable members how many commercial reactors are in operation in various countries. I shall give a few examples. At this moment France has 10 commercial nuclear reactors in operation. They provide 8.5 per cent of the electricity used in France. Britain has 3 1 commercial reactors in use creating 10 per cent of its electrical energy. The United States has 56 commercial reactors now in operation producing 9 per cent of its electricity. The honourable member for Casey,  Mr Falconer,  made an exceptionally good speech about Japan. He pointed out that Japan has 13 commercial reactors in operation producing 5.4 per cent of its electrical energy. Some people are astounded when I tell them that Switzerland with only 3 very powerful commercial nuclear reactors is producing 1 7 per cent of its electricity. Honourable members should not suppose that the Soviet Union and other countries are not also using commercial nuclear reactors to produce electricity. I do not wish to take the time of the House to read out the name of every country but there are 1 70 commercial nuclear reactors generating electricity in operation at present. One hundred and twenty-six are on order. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  Table 3 from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's twenty-fourth annual report. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="105131197706021_83_1.jpg"></graphic>

-Having brought everybody's mind to the time in which we are really living, I point out that we can see that the demand for uranium oxide will certainly increase. We forecast that more reactors will be built. One specific argument is worrying us about providing our own uranium. There are scientists who say that the second generation reactor, the sodium reactor breeder, will not require uranium and will use only plutonium. But, as we have already heard from the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in a well delivered speech, that operation is being opposed by  President  Carter at the moment. Scientists are thinking seriously whether the second generation reactors should be allowed to operate. 
Let us suppose, for the sake of argument, that we now have 25 per cent or more of the world's reserves of uranium. Has there ever been a time in the history of this great nation when we stood at one of the most decisive moments in history? When before were we so important in the councils of the world? As a nation, we will not allow the export of our uranium to other countries unless we are quite satisfied that we will take full part in every international organisation in the whole of the nuclear energy field. Have we had an opportunity like this before? No, we have not. If we do not take this chance now it may not come again. It is essential for our children, our future and our position in the world that we get on with solving the greatest problem, that is the safeguards which are required. We have talked about safeguards. Did we not hear people using the wonderful expression 'safeguards'? What safeguards are we talking about? The nuclear non-proliferation Treaty is something with which we can do our very best. It is an international agreement. As some honourable members have said, how can we enforce an international agreement, short of war or doing something like Israel did to rescue its people from Entebbe? How can we be certain that this treaty will work? We cannot. We have to take it on trust. But our own Atomic Energy Commission can take definite action. We are in a position to demand representation on the Atomic Energy Control Commission in Vienna. 
I put a question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  last week. I asked whether he could give me the name- just the name- of Australia's representative on this international Commission. He did not know. I also asked how many inspectors the nation had to police, observe and take part in the work of the Agency. He did not know. These are the questions which the Opposition should be probing. These are the questions which everyone else will be asking in a very short time. Everybody will say: 'What is Australia actually doing about safeguards'. Will inspectors, for example, be able to observe our uranium arriving in other countries, being loaded into reactors and taken out? What rights will we have in this field? I believe that we must fight for those rights now. I am certain that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is making quite certain on his journey that our voice in the control and inspection of nuclear equipment and material will be one of our great achievements in the closing years of this century. People are going to say about us: 'They had the courage to realise and to face up to their responsibilities. It was just luck that 25 per cent of the world's uranium was in their country. They simply did not stand by and behave like a lady of easy virtue and say: "Help yourself". They said: "We must be certain that we look after it and take care. But if we let this stuff go around the world we are going to police it and do our very best with it". '. 
I come to the next argument. Is it too far ahead for us to ask of our friends that we enrich the uranium in Australia ourselves and export it? If a new science is developing concerning the recycling of waste, why should we not have the uranium back and go into the whole of the recycling science here? We are at a wonderful moment in time in a completely new era of a nuclear world. We simply have to get ourselves together and have sufficient courage to go into the world and play our full part. I do not want to say anything too disparaging about the Opposition but I cannot understand the point of waiting for 5 years to find out whether the safeguards would be all right. Members of the Opposition asked: How goes the science for looking after the waste material? Why do we not take part in all these operations ourselves? What are we waiting for? Waiting for Godot, I suppose. Let us not worry about what the Opposition says. 
I was very disturbed at a remark by one of the Opposition's leaders who said that whatever international arrangements this Government made the Opposition might default on them. I have never heard anything so hypocritical and downright dangerous. When we are making international agreements concerning nuclear equipment and this sort of material it should be possible for the 2 front benches to come together and make certain that we do not at a later date let down all our friends, neighbours and the world by ratting on a treaty that we have already negotiated. I have listened to the speeches of the Opposition with great pleasure. I am just sorry that this particular fault seemed to come through from all the Opposition speeches today. I do not want to take the time of the House. Other honourable members want to speak. It has been a most enjoyable debate. This is one of the most serious problems that face us because it concerns our own survival. 
-I wish to speak on behalf of the many electors in the Melbourne area and elsewhere who were born in Cyprus. Because in 1952 I lived in Lapithos which is now under Turkish control in Cyprus and because of my association with the foundation of the early Committee of Conciliation headed by  Mr Atlee,  Compton McKenzie, Robert Boothby and others who were involved in the earliest days looking for a peace between Turkey, Great Britain and Greece, I feel it would be wrong if I did not today, having known and having worked with Archbishop Makarios, Francis Noel Baker and others, say a few words in this honourable House on this motion. There is absolutely no doubt about the complete and amazing bravery of Archbishop Makarios. At all times, his stand was firm, correct and even humble. 
Last year I visited the Commonwealth Police unit in Cyprus. This unit is doing a wonderful job for our nation. These police officers wander around unarmed. They travel in landrovers. They wander between the two sides. They are most respected and understood in Cyrpus. The unit has brought a great deal of skill to the problem of the preservation of peace in Cyprus. I would not like to let this moment pass without saying to the nation that the Australian Commonwealth Police unit in Cyprus has rendered invaluable service to the cause of world peace. This fact has been recognised by every person who works in or is concerned with international affairs or the United Nations. 
To his people, the passing of Archbishop Makarios is the most terrible tragedy as it has occurred at a time when one third of their island is at present occupied and is considered to be part of a Turkish province. Last year, for the first time, the government car carrying the Australian High Commissioner in Cyprus was not permitted to enter into the area where a conference between Greek and Turkish Cypriot people and their rulers was being held. That was a sad event. If Cyprus is to have any hope of peace or any hope of a future there must be communications between the Turkish Cypriots and the Greek Cypriots. 
In all his dealings with  Dr Denktash, Mr Orekx,  and  Dr Kutchuk,  the former VicePresident of Cyprus, Archbishop Makarios always maintained a firm and humble way in his negotiations. That Cyprus, the Middle East, the Commonwealth and the world have lost a statesman of this standing is a matter of the most important regret. On behalf of those who have been involved throughout their lives in negotiations with Turkish Cypriots and Greek Cypriots and with their governments, and also on behalf of all Cypriots living in Australia. I acknowledge, having lived in Cyprus, that Archbishop Makarios was one of the world's greatest leaders. He was, at a difficult time, the most patient statesman. I am sorry that, before he was able to visit this country, his life on this earth ended. I only hope that there will arise in Cyprus a leader of equal competence, equal brilliance and equal good sense to hold together a community of church and state. For that reason I associate myself and all Cypriots whom I know in Australia, New York and elsewhere with the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and supported by the Leader of the Opposition (  Mr E.  G. Whitlam 1 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question concerning Poms and cricket. Did the Minister when he made his speech concerning primary industry say that all shop stewards and union officials who came from the United Kingdom had the disease or did he become muddled between corns and Poms? I think we ought to know exactly whether he said a few or all. 
I would like briefly to enter this debate and say that I took the opportunity to visit the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria at Dandenong and examine with some interest the future of our gas and petrol problems. I would have thought that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  in dealing with the subject of liquid gas, would have drawn attention to the need for the nation to consider most carefully a fuel policy which advocates the basic gas reduction process which is at present untapped. The use of fuel gas in cars and in other forms of transport is obviously advantageous on 3 grounds. First, there would be less pollution; secondly, we have an abundant quantity of this resource; and, thirdly, it is a better material for us to use in terms of any policy we have concerning the conservation of our fossil fuels. 
Although I accept the Government's reasons for the need to increase the tax on diesel fuel I would have thought there would have been no doubt at all that in future the Government should give very serious consideration to utilising our reserves of gas fuel which could be used in cars. Indeed, I would go further and suggest that in the next Budget every form of encouragement should be given to people who convert their vehicles from fuel oil or petrol propulsion to gas fuel propulsion. Australia has sufficient reserves of fuel gas that could be used for this purpose. Therefore, it would seem to me that it is not necessary to increase the tax on fuel gas at this time. The Government may have reasons for doing so. But I would suggest, as a long term policy, that it is essential that every industrialist, every person concerned with the motor industry and, above all, the Government, should give immediate consideration to what we are doing with the reserves we possess. Therefore, even though the legislation may be valuable, though it may be desired and though it may be needed to raise revenue, I would suggest that this nation should pay very careful attention to what is happening in the world fuel economy and ensure that we use the resources we have. Therefore, the more we transfer to the use of liquid gas and fuel gas the better. 
I do not want to take the time of the House. I have made a point which is well understood by all those who work in the Austraiian Gas Association; it is well understood by anyone who has any basis of strategy in this area. Therefore, the sooner we use fuel gas in place of diesel oil the better. I support the Government. However, I am just saying that this is a serious subject which should not be discussed at this time of night but should be a point of major debate on the conservation and preservation of our fuel resources. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions, where and when has the Federal Government received emergency assistance from those using the Citizen Band radios. 
) When does he intend to table in Parliament the report of Telecom into the Citizen Radio Movement. 
How many submissions has he received from the general public on the issue. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House notes with concern the practice of the boundary commissioners in allowing the national Press access to their confidential recommendations relating to Federal boundary revisions before they are presented to this House and to honourable members and requests that such arrangements shall be terminated forthwith. 
The motion is seconded by the honourable member for Braddon. 
I would like to draw the attention of the House to the new spirit that is developing in the Army cadet force, which was sneered at and disbanded by the Australian Labor Party. In particular, I want to draw attention to the good relations that are now developing with the Regular Army and the Army Reserve. With the help of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the Department of Defence- in particular  Colonel De  Lehunty- I visited the 3rd Cadet Brigade at annual camp in the state forests at Puckapunyal on Friday, 19 August. Having worked on the defence and foreign affairs committee of my party and in both the Regular Army and the Reserve Army in the United Kingdom, I was able to assess some of the valuable work being done at that camp. It was perfect weather. In fact, the whole camp had been conducted in perfect weather. 
I was met by the commander of the BrigadeColonel Whitehead. I then went straight to see what was being done. The camp, which is being held between 29 July and 28 August, is comprised of 2,000 cadets from Victoria. May I add that they are not all from wealthy schools. Some are from Warragul Technical School, Northcote High School, Collingwood Technical School and Melbourne High School. So let us get away from the idea that the cadets come only from the wealthy schools. They come from many stratas in society. They are interested in the defence of this country. There was also an arrangement whereby the schools which happened to have bands had a band camp so that they were able to practice and learn music at Puckapunyal. 
The object of the cadets scheme, as I understand it, is to be certain that at no time shall this nation ever be short of those who are able to lead and command. The object of the camp is a reasonable one. It is one to which nobody, with the exception of honourable members opposite, excluding the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  would take exception. It is that every person in the Army as a cadet should be able to maintain himself in the field, handle weapons, read a map, navigate by day and by night, fire on the ranges and at least see some of Australia's new defence weapons, in particular the tanks, in action. It is now of great credit to the Regular Army and the Army Reserve that there was sufficient equipment at the camp to enable all the units taking part in it to have the correct Army equipment. I am referring to wireless sets and all the other things that are necessary to make for a successful camp. I would like the House to know that every cadet has fired 35 rounds on an open range and has used a modern rifle. Every cadet has been able to observe, take part in and understand proper instructions from Regular Army officers. I think the House should also know that I looked with care into the medical arrangements and the safety arrangements for all cadets. They were well planned. I was absolutely satisfied that everything was there in case of emergency. 
During my visit to the units in the field I had an opportunity to talk to the training officers and in particular to the PSI's and the cadet officers. In addition, it was a real pleasure to talk to so many of the cadets themselves concerning the camp. I asked them only one question, namely, whether they had learned anything of real value. All of them gave the simple answer that this camp has enabled them to put into practice all that they have learned in theory. There is no doubt therefore that considerable credit must be given to the Army cadet officers, to the under cadet officers, to the boys themselves and to all those responsible for encouraging and training cadet units and their programs. But, of course, each cadet and each unit receive valuable training and assistance from the regular Army. As a result I felt that there was now serious co-operation between the cadets, the regular Army and the reserve Army. This speaks well for the future. I cannot see how cadet units can operate without the support of the reserve forces of the Crown. 
If I were invited to make three suggestions I would make them in this order: Firstly, I think that the Army brigade headquarters should have three more PSI instructors next year. Secondly, I think it is offensive that the cadet officers have to pay tax when they are at camp. Thirdly, I suggest that the vote be changed so that the vote for the cadets is not confined just to camp and so that every cadet is allowed to have the full Army vote for the whole year. It seems to me that above everything else the training of young cadet officers with the regular and reserve Army is something of which this Party, the Minister for Defence and all those connected with the defence of this nation can be exceptionally proud. 
-After seven debates on uranium both within and outside the Parliament, I am becoming tired of hearing members of the Opposition trying to use terrifying, stupid, imbecilic tactics on an intelligent nation. What sort of people do they think we are? Let me read to them a simple statement by the United Kingdom Central Electricity Generating Board. I suggest that they listen to it and follow it. The Board said that no harm attributable to radiation had been caused to any worker or any member of the public working in British reactors since 1955, when I saw the first one in operation. 
What are you talking about? You are trying to scare the Australian nation into believing that it is unsafe to use simple atomic or nuclear reactors for energy. You do not even know that the Soviet Union at this moment is building one of the most powerful atomic breeder reactors ever seen. It is turning out simple reactors for atomic energy, like  Mr Ford  turned out motor cars. How antiquated your arguments are. What I resent above everything else - 
I defer to the Chair. The Chair is quite correct. If I use the word 'you', that means that I am addressing the Chair. I should say that honourable members opposite simply do not comprehend the change that has taken place in the nuclear world. The Australian Labor Party has come forward and protested about nuclear reactors. A Labour government in Britain secretly, without even telling its own organisation, authorised the explosion of the first British atomic bomb. Thank goodness the British Labour Party had the good, sound sense to understand that following the explosion of the first British atomic bomb there would be a peaceful use for uranium and atomic reactors. 
Let us go a little further ahead in time. Are we, as a nation, prepared to sit back, to turn to the world and to say to it that 3 per cent of the world's population will deny to the rest of the world 25 per cent of the power that it requires to generate its electricity? What a ridiculous concept for honourable members opposite to put. Dare they do it? They are gutless. Of course they dare not do it. How could  Mr Hawke,  with all his stupidity, really believe that in today's world the Labor Party would say that it would deny atomic energy or the uranium of our country to the underdeveloped nations? Of course the Philippines will want our uranium. Who will not want it? The more I look at those sitting on the benches opposite, the more ashamed I am to think that a person such as  Mr Hawke  could try to tell us that we should not supply the rest of the world with our uranium. 
What infuriates me is his statement that if we decide to supply the underdeveloped nations of the world with the power that they so badly need he will bring the whole of the nation out on to the streets and there will be blood flowing. What piffle! How can a man who calls himself the  President  of the Australian Labor Party talk such arrant piffle? Of course, the Australian people have more sense. Talk to any other unionist in the world. Look at the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  snivelling there. He should tell the people in Adelaide that the workers in Germany, the unions in Britain and the unions in America are forming up against the reactors that are now working. If honourable members opposite want another job, why do they not go to Russia and see what the Russian reactors are doing? Why do they not go to China and see its reactors? Fancy the Australian unions being the only unions in the world that are against the exporting of atomic energy. Why are they against it? They want to create unemployment. They want to see more people out of work. They do not care two hoots, as long as they can stop uranium being exported because of their political motives. Their motives are snivelling political motives, for a start. The Australian unions want to stop this nation exporting the uranium which the whole of the world wants. What do they imagine the rest of the world must think of them? They know that they are playing Tom Tiddler politics. If there is an election soon, honourable members opposite will be smothered. It will serve them right. The average worker in this country knows all about the position. 
Honourable members opposite pretend that we do not know that Australia was involved in atomic energy protection arrangements. Of course we were. In 1956 Australia was one of the first governors of the atomic  energy  board which was designated as the body to regulate all atomic energy operations in this part of the world. 
Maybe the honourable member was just coming out of something in Botany Bay then; I do not know. In 1956 this nation first set itself the task of establishing proper control of uranium and of controlling where uranium was used in the world. I am stunned to think that no member of the Opposition has said with pride that in the early days of 1956 we were members of the atomic energy board in Europe. Members of the Opposition have forgotten it. Why? They are so ignorant, it is unbelievable. Now they talk about atomic waste. The say that we do not know how to cope with atomic waste. Since 1966 experiments have been conducted with regard to the disposal of nuclear waste. It is no mystery. lt is nothing sudden that has come upon the world. If members of the Labor Party wanted to attack the world they would say that the nuclear authorities or agencies had failed to supervise the waste material sufficiently. This is a good argument. I must say that I would respect their argument on that ground. Fair enough. 

-If the honourable member had read the first one, he would be a much wiser gentleman. I am afraid that he did not. He does not really care. I do not think he is able to understand. To pretend that the science of this world does not know about the control of nuclear waste is to show the most appalling ignorance. Surely some honourable member has been to France and seen what the French are doing in regard to vitrification. Which honourable member has seen how the French deal with their nuclear waste? Anybody? Has any member of the Opposition been to see the harvest way of controlling waste? Has any honourable member been to Germany to see the control of waste, or to the United States? Is there any honourable member opposite who has done that? 
The more I listen to honourable members opposite, the more I am convinced that they simply have not made any effort to study the way in which overseas countries deal with nuclear waste. Could any honourable member opposite tell me what is the main way they deal with nuclear waste? What system will they use? Honourable members opposite would not know whether it was a calculator, the vitrification method or pods. All they are interested in is trying to scare the pants off the Australian people into believing that the use of nuclear energy is a terrifying operation. That is absolutely childish and unbelievably stupid. 
They must realise that today they are living in a new age, a new era. The times have changed. All the Australian people want to know is firstly, if we export uranium are we doing anything which would be morally wrong? The answer is no. Secondly, if we export uranium are we certain that the International Atomic Energy Agency can police it? The answer is yes. Thirdly, is there a technology which can deal with atomic waste when it comes out of all the ordinary reactors around the world? The answer is yes. So what are they really trying to tell us? I know, they are saying that babies in 10 years dme will have 10 heads because someone has stood on a nuclear pile buried somewhere. The more one listens to these sorts of arguments the more infuriated one becomes. The average person has come to the conclusion quite rightly that the argument is completely over. It is over on one line in practicality for the nation. It is over on the second line because every other nation requires it. It is over on the third line because we have all the methods of supervising its control and looking after it. What more do they want? 
Everybody knows that they are only trying to create political troubles. A few baboons are running around trying to pretend that this is a great issue. It is not an issue today. It is a past issue. It is one of the issues which destroyed  Mr Gaitskell,  the Leader of the Labour Party in England. There was no man more saddened by the baboonery in Britain of the very Left Wing which shouted and yelled at him everywhere he went to make on behalf of the Labour Party a simple statement that the peaceful use of uranium was the best thing for Britian. He was howled down, knocked about and savaged everywhere he went. I have always felt very sorry for him because, like many other good, honest Labour people he knew that the use of uranium for peaceful purposes is no problem in the world. There has been no injury from atomic energy reactors. The sooner the Australian people come around to this and the sooner honourable members opposite stop this stupid nonsense the sooner the Australian people will be better relieved. If Opposition members come to power and then rat on every contract this nation has entered into with the rest of the world they will certainly betray every Australian worker in every field. They alone will be responsible for the unemployment which occurs. Serve them right. 
-Has the Prime Minister yet completed his consideration of the report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security conducted by  Mr Justice  Hope? Will he now tell the House what action the Government proposes to take? 
I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House recalls with regret - 
I put my question to the Minister for Employment and industrial Relations. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements made during the serious State Electricity Commission strike in the Latrobe Valley, when thousands of people in my own electorate were out of work, that his Department did nothing to assist the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and did not assist in solving the dispute in any way at all? Will the Minister kindly tell the House what action the Government took to assist in this most serious dispute which gravely affected all the workers in my area and in many other electorates? 
-I shall take only one second,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The House of Commons sat many times all through the night when government business had to be passed. There is nothing wrong or absurd in asking for the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule. As soon as the Government gets on with its business, the better. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-As the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is absent, I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister noted that the Norgard report has pointed out that it is not of value to use the Commonwealth Employment Service figures to assess our unemployment situation? Therefore will he take into account that the unemployment figures have been totally distorted by the Victorian State Electricity Commission strike. 
I want to spend a few moments this afternoon in supporting the Environment (Financial Assistance) Bill which was presented to the House by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  I do so on three grounds: Firstly, I have found that almost every Australian now is at heart a conservationist. Secondly, there is major national concern about the fact that some of our most treasured buildings have been lost. Thirdly, there is major concern because some of Australia's rare species of wildlife are so likely to be lost in the next 20 years unless we take very great care. In my view there should be no monopoly- and no particular party is entitled to the monopoly- of concern for conservation. It is the concern of us all. 
It is sometimes said that those people who first came to this country ravaged the country and did a lot of damage. In certain cases that may be so but I do not think we should look upon the whole problem of conservation with a feeling of guilt. Certainly, we ought not to look upon it with the gloom which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  always asks us to adopt. I prefer to look upon it with the charm, grace and elegance of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Honourable members should look at the wonderful buildings in Robe. They should look at the history of Robe. They should look at the wonderful areas in Australia. 
I wish to make a few comments about conservation. The next problem we have to face is education in conservation. Are we teaching the children in our schools how to use the equipment they take with them when they go into the wildlife areas? How many rivers have I found full of spinners because people or children did not know how to use their tackle? What a tragedy it is, when fishing in the Falls Creek area and watching the evening sun go down, to have to stand on glass bottles or cans. The first lesson in conservation must be taught and understood by all those who go into the countryside. Let us take an example of one person in the last century who made a very fine contribution towards conservation. I refer to the work of Carlo Catani. If honourable members looked from the Dandenongs straight down to Westernport they would realise what a wonderful operation it was to clear the whole of the area and to make it some of the most fertile and most valuable land in Australia. The black soil around Kooweerup is well known to anybody with an understanding of farming. 
Those who understand must appreciate how difficult it is for people to work out conservation plans when two authorities are involved. Take, for example, the Shire of Cranbourne. There are two authorities involved- the Westernport Regional Council and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. A third authority deals with all the effluent which goes into Westernport Bay. There must be a genuine cooperation between all these authorities. I say that it would be tragic if we lose the use of Westernport Bay because development of industry in that area. The development must be done with the greatest possible care. The revision of the boundaries of Holt have given me the wide areas towards the bay. I consider that conservation is one of the most important things to which every member of this House should devote his attention in the next 10 or IS years. Industries are developing in this area. They must be developed carefully and with sound sense. 
I do not want to take up too much time of the House - 
I did not know that. I am an exserviceman. If the honourable member had said that there was another important Bill on which he wished to speak, I would have given up my time. In view of that statement, I will say only one thing: This Bill is designed to assist those who are working voluntarily, both at a national level and at a State level, in the most important area for our nation, that is, the conservation of all the beautiful things we possess in our country. 
I am absolutely astounded by the speech I just heard from the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  It was quite incredible, coming from a member with his background who knows how local communities support each other. He said that there would not be an opportunity for family unity and for jobs to be found within the family and within the local businesses which the family operates. I do not know whether the honourable member lives in his electorate, but he clearly has no comprehension of how the local migrant families arrange for their friends to come in and to get jobs. To suggest that the wealthy - 
He is a sort of a factual man. I will deal with the matter on a rather more personal basis, as I know it. 
He is from Canberra. He loves his little facts. Let him have his say. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Holt will address his remarks to the Chair and ignore interjections. 
I beg your pardon,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The honourable member for Maribyrnong was being provocative and also totally destructive to the good relations which we, as a Liberal Government, have established with the ethnic groups. He has gone out of his way, on behalf of the Labor Party, to betray everything that Calwell stood for and everything the Labor Party stood for. They stood for family unity, help for Italians, Greeks and all people coming here and help for them to establish their lives in this country. Speaking for the migrants in my electorate I say that the honourable member stands absolutely condemned. 
-Of course the honourable member knows there is no point of order. He is trying to make my speech more difficult for me. He will not succeed in doing so. The honourable member went on to pretend that the Italian and Greek families have not sufficient money to be able to run their ethnic radio stations or their television stations. The honourable member is a child in international relations. He simply does not know the wealth that this country has established through the Italian and Greek communities. I notice he is about to leave the chamber. I am glad. The proceedings are not being broadcast. He insulted the efforts of the Liberal Party in establishing television for the ethnic groups. He knows full well that it is perfectly possible. He attempts to play the old game of trying to antagonise the ethnic groups against the Liberal Party. The Party opposite tried that at the last election and failed. That serves it right. It will learn the lesson in the long run. Members of the Labor Party believe that people coming here from Hungary and Czechoslovakia will be voting for Labor. What idiots they are. What do they think they stand for? The honourable member for Maribyrnong is laughing. All he can contribute to the House is a giggle. As far as I am concerned he ought to be dismissed. 
Let me get on with my speech. Firstly I congratulate the  Speaker,  who was the representative of Holt for many years, for being knighted and for being re-elected to the chair. I am glad to associate my electors with your elevation  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to that position and to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I am delighted that you have taken the position. 
Last night in the House we had a very pleasant reception. Sometimes we overlook the service given by those who work in the building. Sometimes we take them for granted. I suggest that honourable members should not take for granted what was arranged last night at great trouble. The reception was a very pleasant one. I say on behalf of honourable members to the staff who worked through last night- their efforts were greatly appreciated by embassy staff and by people I met from the diplomatic corps- the House is lucky to have such people who are willing to work at receptions. I hope I do not cause any offence by saying that the reception was a very enjoyable event. This was made possible by those who took part in it and those who served in it. 
-What would the honourable member have liked the House to have arranged? 
-A barbecue! I am lost. I would say that the Opposition party is a barbecue. 
I turn now to the very important speech made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  That cannot be overlooked by this House. It was one of the most important contributions that I have heard in the time I have been a member. I am only a oncer or a twicer or whatever it is. We were told that the  Speaker  of this House received a message in Norway saying that he could not give a reception to Norwegian parliamentarians because a member of the Executive, a Minister of the Crown, said that no money was available for it. To my mind that is the most unutterable affront that this House has ever received. What will we do about it? It is quite incredible that we allow ourselves to be bound by these ridiculous second grade, third grade Public Service arrangements. After all, I am only a new member of this House, but I spent some time in another Parliament. 
When I visited the police unit in Cyprus, a Commander of the Forces in another part of the world, the Brookings Institute and Mauritius, I was told that I had no Parliamentary allowances. I had just been elected to this honourable House so I suppose I was not given allowances in case I made a diplomatic mess in some embassy abroad. Who decides that an honourable member of this House in his first year will or will not receive an overseas travel allowance which is required for him to conduct his normal parliamentary duties? By whose authority is that done? This honourable House, if it is to be a House of Representatives, really must assert itself. It is incredible to me that there should be two grades of member. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  who has just been elected to this House- he might make his maiden speech shortly- will not be able to travel far. He is not allowed a travel allowance. He is just second grade as far as I am concerned; I am first grade. Who said that I will be a first grade member of Parliament and that my honourable friend will be a second grade member of this honourable House? 
This is the most disgusting affront that I have ever experienced. I am surprised that honourable members have not taken this matter to the Privileges Committee. If honourable members want to be ruled by the Executive and by the Minister who makes all these regulations- I think he comes from another House- it is their fault, but the Australian people will tell them in the years to come that they made a fundamental mistake in allowing that to happen. Do honourable members think that they are here just to play background music for the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the Duke of Plaza-Toro, or the front bench? Why are we here? What do honourable members think our people sent us here to do- to obey instructions from the Whip or the Government or the Leader of the Opposition? That is complete nonsense. I thought the speech of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  tonight was one of the most valuable speeches I have heard. 
I now wish to discuss a short visit I made to China recently because that country has had some problems with the rest of the world. Firstly, let me pay a tribute to the former Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  He at least began to understand that China would play an important part in the affairs of the region in which we live. I believe he was right when he sent  Dr Fitzgerald  as the first Ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China and to open negotiations between our country and the Chinese people. As a private member I think he did the right thing for the nation. Where have we gone from there? What progress are we making in China at the present time? In 1955 I had the opportunity to visit China with the first parliamentary delegation from the United Kingdom, which was drawn from the House of Commons and the House of Lords. 
I am just a commoner but I hope to be a Lord later. One can never tell. Life is chance. We travelled to China because back bench members decided that there would be a visit of members of the House of Commons and the House of Lords. The Government did not decide it- the back bench members decided. We went to China to see whether the China that was developing would be of any consequence in world affairs. When I arrived in Paris I spoke to a French ambassador who said that any person who thinks that he speaks with authority on international affairs and discards China does not understand the balance of power in the world. I admired him very much and I listened to him with great respect. He suggested that the two great factors in the world economy will be the European Common Market and the balance of power between China and Japan. 
On returning to China after 20 years, what were the main changes that I noted? The first thing was that one realised that the Peoples Army runs China. There is no need to elaborate on that point. The Red Army and the people are one. Everywhere one travelled one could not be other than impressed with the tremendous impact that the army has had on China today. 
Would you say that again louder please. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member will direct his remarks to the Chair. 
With respect, I am used to debating and if the honourable member wants to put a good question to me I am perfectly willing to give him leave. I realise that in this House I may not do it. I like to hear his remarks. No matter; let us forget about them. I will go on to the next great problem. In China we are regarded as imbeciles; we do not understand world power; we have not comprehended the power of the Soviet Union. I suppose a few people might have noticed that a satellite driven by nuclear power came down in Canada. How many honourable members noted that? How many people in Australia actually noted that a satellite driven by nuclear power came down in Canada? I do not want to be uncharitable to any honourable member. Did any members of the Opposition rush to the Russian Embassy and say: 'I say, trade unions and all the rest of it; you are actually putting into outer space nuclear-powered satellites without our knowing '. 
Was there any demonstration? Did the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  see any demonstration? Did the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  see any demonstration? Was any protest made throughout the nation at the Soviet Union actually having in outer space a satellite driven by nuclear power? It could have crashed into this chamber. There was not a twitter, not a word of protest from honourable members opposite. What about the humbug of which they accuse this side? It is all absolutely pathetic. The Chinese people to whom I spoke at the Institute of International Affairs asked whether we really understood what was going on in the world. The more I analyse the facts, the more I wonder whether the Opposition party or the Government parties understand what in fact is happening in world power. It is really quite extraordinary. We have debates about Indonesia, but nobody seems to understand the importance of submarines of the Soviet Union passing through the Straits of Sunda or south of Australia into the Indian Ocean. At every meeting that I had with Chinese Ministers concerned with foreign affairs they pointed out that Australia and Western Europe are completely unable to understand the power of the Soviet Union. 
It is really astonishing. In China I walked into a shop with my guides. They pressed a button behind the counter, the whole floor disappeared and there was a tunnel. They invited my wife and myself to walk down and go through the underground tunnels that had been built in Peking. Mile upon mile we walked. Afterwards I asked whether these tunnels were under all Chinese cities and military establishments. They were. The Chinese take nuclear war very seriously indeed. 
Everywhere one went one could not help being impressed by the way they thought that national defence was the most important thing for their country. Do we? It is incredible. We never imagine that we have any problems of national defence at all. 
In Melbourne I went aboard the  Jeanne d'Arc  which is a French assault boat- I suppose nuclear. I am amazed to think that the French have a boat which they are able to use in attack and defence or to land commandos and which is escorted by a frigate and a supply boat. That boat could easily cover 2,000 miles or more of coast. Do we have any comparable boat in the Australian Navy? Why not? I am very sorry to take the time of the House for so long. The important point is that unless we are prepared to co-operate with our neighbours in defence and take our defence seriously nobody will take us seriously. Therefore, any demands that the Minister for Defence makes upon this nation should be treated seriously and with respect. That means that, as we are interlocked with the world powers- the United States of America and those other countries which support us- anybody who suggests that we should withdraw in any way from the defence capability which we have is making a great mistake. If our nation is to have any credibility in world affairs it certainly must take its defence capacity seriously and must cooperate with its neighbours in every respect. The Governor-General in his Speech said: 
The Government will also continue to develop and strengthen its important and highly valued associations which it has built up elsewhere in the world. 
Our associations with the Commonwealth are important to us. The balance of power between China and Japan is important to us. We must never overlook what friendship, what guidance and what else we may receive by co-operating with China in the world in the years ahead. 
May I put a question to you,  Mr Speaker? 

 -Mr Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege based on an editorial published in the  Sunday Observer  of 26 February 1978 under the heading 'Political Bludgers'. I will produce a copy of the  Sunday Observer  produced by  Mr Alan  Leonard Armsden  of 46-49 Porter Street, Prahran, Victoria, for Peter Isaacson's Sunday Newspapers Pty Ltd of 44 Market Street, Melbourne. The article states: 
The over-taxed, Government-burdened people of Australia were treated to a disgusting exhibition by many Federal politicians this week. 
Many of our so-called leaders proved themselves lazy, two-faced bludgers at the opening of Federal Parliament in Canberra. 
It happened last Tuesday and, until now, not one newspaper has bothered to point out the outrageous antics of these power-puffed thespians of the parliamentary stage. 
While our new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, delivered his speech to the combined Houses, politicians from all sides appeared in their newly-cleaned suits. 
Colours were carefully chosen for ties and handkerchiefs and members' wives preened themselves for the ceremonial hoo-ha. 
Of course. The television cameras were rolling. Here was a chance to be shown off to the public. 
Politicians were actually seen in the House, apparently taking some notice of official business. 
But after the official ceremonies were over they skulked out like thieves in the night. 
While new Opposition boss, Bill Hayden, made his first speech in the House as leader, members lounged about in the bar. 
And when Federal Treasurer, John Howard, built up to an important parliamentary appearance the House was half empty. Once again the bar was adequately occupied. 

 Mr Speaker, I do not think I need to read any further. All this is supposed to have happened last Tuesday and I do not think that the bar was available last Tuesday. Most of us were outside in the garden. As to the failure of the Press Gallery correspondents to report the matter, of course nothing at all occurred on that day. They were probably in the garden as well. Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  I ask you to rule whether this sort of comment is, in your view, prima facie evidence of a breach of privilege, a matter which should be referred to the Committee of Privileges and a matter which I could bring to the attention of the House later. 
-For the convenience of honourable members and the House I move: 
That the matter of the editorial in the  Sunday Observer  of 26 February 1978 be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, before I commence my remarks I request that the last remarks concerning the Governor-General be withdrawn. 
I am sorry. I am incorrect. I think I heard what the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  said, but he may care to repeat it. If you heard it, I suggest that you request that it be withdrawn. 
I wish to deal tonight with the fishing industry. I was amazed to hear tonight a second major story about Australia entering into the fishing industry. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  told us that Whyalla is com.templating having a number of boats and buildings boats to operate a fishing fleet in South Australia. At Albany in Western Australia a $2. 5m fishing program is underway and boats are to be built for fishing off Albany. I read in a newspaper yesterday that the Tasmanian Government intends to bring in 16 boats for fishing off the Tasmanian coast. I understand that Victoria is also looking into bringing in more boats from Hull and Grimsby and is also going to start fishing operations in Victorian waters. It is incredible that nobody as yet, as far as I can make out, has discovered the extent of the fishing in the area. At present a Commonwealth survey ship is actually trying to discover the suitable areas for fishing in these regions. 
I am glad for that yell from the honourable member. He obviously understands quite clearly that the Taiwanese present no problems at all to the fishing industry. They are taking fish which is of no consequence. He is quite right to suggest something else, that there is now a story that the Japanese will bring a large fishing fleet into the waters around Australia. I can add further to his confusion. I was told the day before yesterday that a firm in Victoria had negotiated with a Russian factory ship and was going to supply the Russian factory ship with six boats. The firm was going to supply a Russian factory ship, although it indicated that it might be a Polish ship. 
Before this country goes off the deep end about fishing and what fish there are- we are to extend our territorial limit to 200 miles- I suggest that it would be in the interests of the House and of the nation if the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  were to come into this House and really attempted to tell the country and all those who are really interested what is the policy of the Government in relation to our national resources and our national fishing industry. Otherwise what will happen? All the scallops in Port Phillip Bay were fished out. The boats stood at Mornington and of course they were sold. The abalone trade is still going on. Those of us who know something about the crayfish industry watch all the crayfish being pulled out of the waters. 
It would be in the national interest if we could persuade our kind Minister for Primary Industry to come and tell this House and the nation what is the Government's policy concerning the fishing industry. Do we negotiate with the Russian factory ships and sign a contract with them? Are we going to sign a contract with the Japanese factory ships and allow the Japanese in? Are we going to sign a contract with the Tasmanian Government? Are we going to support  Sir Charles  Court and the Western Australian Government with all its expertise at Albany and elsewhere? The fishing prospects for this country require a proper, lucid and sensible contribution from the Minister for Primary Industry as soon as possible. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to express my regret to you for remarks I made last night. It is not permissible for a private member or anybody in this House to question whom you call. My remarks last night were a reflection on the Chair and I apologise for them. To my mind, the adjournment debate should be used by the private members to question the actions of the Executive. It is a pity that our Standing Orders do not insist that the members of the Government are here to answer complaints which private members bring to the attention of the Government. 
It is not in the Standing Orders. Unfortunately, this House does not have those rules. This evening I wish to discuss what the Government has done to help the young unemployed. It is with very deep regret that I record that the former government did not even recognise that they existed. In my electorate I have four Community Youth Support schemes in operation and I am deeply grateful to the  chairman, Mr Murray  Gill, for what he has done to combine all four schemes to help the young unemployed. The Berwick Youth Employment Project is run by  Mr Michael  Peling and Miss Michelle Gibson. During 1977 300 young people registered as unemployed. They were able to find jobs for 120 of them, which is not a bad effort. The second scheme, known as the Dandenong Resources Co-operative, run by the Reverend MacDonald, takes the waste from industry, reconstitutes it and sells it. Half of those who were registered as unemployed had found full employment. 
The third Community Youth Support scheme, the Dandenong Youth Employment project, for office procedures and job opportunities, is run by Councillor Jan Wilson. This project is designed to help girls to find employment in industry. Out of the 180 girls training with the project 60 have found employment through that organisation and the rest through the Commonwealth Employment Service. A number are still in training. The fourth scheme, the Doveton Youth Unemployment Centre at Grassmere, run by  Mr Geoff  Warren, has had 52 members being trained, and 25 of them have found full employment. It is a matter for regret that the funds for this project run out on 15 March. This morning I asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to extend their finances so that they may be funded until the end of June. In a letter the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said to me: 
Over 100,000 people were assisted under these schemes in 1976-77, and given our commitment that funds will not be a limiting factor this financial year, we expect many more to be assisted in 1977-78. 
I feel that the time has arrived when we should start a proper youth community service cadet scheme for the young unemployed who can serve the community here and then, having been trained, can serve the community abroad. I am sorry to see that the trade union movement seems to want to obstruct young people under 1 8 years of age taking jobs unless they are on an apprenticeship. Is that fair? Young people going out and getting job experience is important but what happens about workers compensation if they are injured? In all, I think that the young people of this nation are entitled to a full and comprehensive government scheme which will assist them to find employment. I honestly believe that it is in the national interest that we should assist them to find fulfilment in life by training them in the community youth service and then by allowing them to assist this nation in community service abroad. In all, I consider that the Community Youth Support scheme arranged by this Government has done a great deal to help the nation, and I am deeply grateful for what the Government has done for the young people. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, concerns deep sea fishing off the Australian coast. Is the Minister aware of the most conflicting and extraordinary reports about the Government's deep sea fishing licences in the new zone for the Tasmanian Government and for Soviet, Polish and Japanese factory ships to fish in Australian waters? Will the Minister tell us when these licences will be issued and also- this concerns a matter of policy and I would be ruled out of order- will he consider making a statement after Question Time for the convenience of the House because his reply is likely to be long, complicated and interesting? 

 -Mr Speaker, there is no doubt that the Australian Government and the Australian people are deeply concerned at the events which have occurred in the Middle East in the last few weeks. The extraordinarily treacherous attack which occurred in Israel by terrorists has brought sorrow and anguish to her people. I would suggest that it has done the cause of the Palestinian people irreparable harm. It has made the task of the more moderate people on both sides even more difficult. 
This morning I visited the Ambassador of Lebanon,  Mr Yazbek,  and the Ambassador for Israel,  Dr Elizur,  in order to obtain the best possible news I could on the situation as it exists. It is not my business ever to discuss in public or in the House what those in the diplomatic service say to me in private, but I think I can say right now that there are about 25,000 to 30,000 Syrian troops in and around Beirut who are part of the peacekeeping force in Lebanon. I think that having listened to the reports that came in this morning one could estimate that the force that Israel has sent into South Lebanon is probably of about 25,000. Therefore, it is obvious to anybody that a war in the Middle East could occur not by any deliberate desire but by confusion and by accident. As I speak now, there are thousands and thousands of refugees fleeing the south of Lebanon to the north and this will cause another refugee problem in and around Beirut itself. 
As one looks down the years, one cannot help but regret the fact that good men in the Middle East who have tried to assist both sides have lost their lives either through terrorism or just by becoming exhausted through their efforts to try to find a reasonable solution to the problem.  President  Carter of the United States and  President  Sadat of Egypt have gone out of their way in the last five to six months to try to bring back the harmony and peace that belonged to the Holy Land. We hope that the incident that occurred last week in Israel and the situation that is now developing in South Lebanon will not deter the United States Government, or the Israeli Government or the Egyptian Government from proceeding on the road to peace because that is the most honourable road that they could follow and that is the most honourable road that they should follow. Alas, I am sorry to add that many people on both sides have become prisoners of their own psychological problems. It is not the many men of goodwill on both sides but it is the few who are on the extreme wings of both sides who make the situation so difficult to resolve. There is no doubt that United Nations resolution 242 prepared and tabled by Lord Caradon in 1967 offers the best opportunity for peace in the Middle East. 
Recently the Australian Government has taken account that there is a Palestinian problem and it just cannot be overlooked. Therefore, the Australian Government quite correctly has adopted resolution 242. However it is very, very difficult now for the Israeli Government to believe that its agreement to a self-governing and self-ruling Arab Palestinian state all down its West Bank will result in a viable situation. It will need the great faith of the Australian nation to try to make this come about. The number of Israeli casualties in the last war was dreadful. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
We are continuing our debate of a matter of national importance. I feel rather like King Agad of the Old Testament who trod delicately and I will continue to do so. Having been brought up in a school in the Lebanon, having lived in Egypt and Libya, considering that my wife is the god-daughter of Adil Arslan of South Lebanon, and also having friends connected closely with the Israeli Government, honourable members will realise how careful I am being. I hope now that the situation will be taken very seriously. I think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  should be encouraged, without delay, to be quite certain that emergency communications have been opened between  President  Carter of the United States and  President  Brezhnev of the Soviet Union. I say this for some good reason. There is a danger of a confrontation between the forces of Syria and the forces of Lebanon because this morning the Syrian Government offered to give air cover over Lebanon. That, in itself, could lead to certain dangers. 
I hope that out of all this some good will come but now I have to say something to the House after about 25 years work in the Middle East. It is an undeniable truth, an undeniable situation. I do not see how any peace settlement can arrive in the Middle East unless it is underwritten and supported by an agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union. However brilliant  Mr Herman  Eiltz, the United States Ambassador in Cairo, however good the United States Minister for Foreign Affairs, however brilliant  Mr Stoltfuss  in the Gulf, and however wonderful the diplomats, it seems to me historically impossible to hope for any solution unless the Soviet Union is brought into the discussions. Therefore I hope that we in this country, because of our traditional way and our image throughout the world of fair play, will try not to take sides. Secondly, surely, if we do take sides, we will prejudice and damage the great work of our Australian servicemen in the Royal Air Force unit operating over Sinai and our Commonwealth police units working throughout the Middle East. 
I would have thought that it would have been wrong for anybody to try to attempt to say which side is right or wrong. When evil things have been committed, it is no good trying then to say that one side is right or wrong. What I say is this: Men of goodwill throughout the Middle East must combine because surely the triumph of evil is certain unless good men work for justice. I think that there is very little more that I can usefully say at this  moment  because the situation now is very dangerous. All I can do is repeat what I have said before: In the circumstances I think that the Prime Minister should be encouraged to see that emergency communications are opened without delay between the Soviet Union and the United States. I hope that on another occasion the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  will make quite certain that the House has proper time to allow honourable members to fulfil their duty in this place and discuss matters relating to peace. Wherever there is conflict in the world there should be Australians ready and willing to talk and work for peace. Therefore I hope that this matter of national importance which I have brought before the House has been of some value to the Parliament and the people. 

 - Mr Speaker, the pass system which you have accepted on our behalf is a matter of your decision - 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs tell us whether the Secretary-General of the United Nations has asked for any help from the Government in the form of logistic support for the peace-keeping force in the Middle East? On the other hand, has he offered to the Secretary-General any help for the peacekeeping force in the Middle East? Thirdly, can he tell us what is the nature and role of No. 5 Squadron of the Royal Australian Air Force which, I believe, has done some remarkable work in assisting the United Nations peacekeeping force at Ismailia and over the Sinai? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Young)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I have, for good reasons I hope, made no comment on the matter which I raised early in February. I sought leave of the House not to take part in the deliberations of the Privileges Committee, and I was relieved from that duty. I simply wish to say this afternoon that I am very grateful to the  Chairman  of the Committee and to all those who took part in examining the matter which I brought to your attention,  Mr Speaker,  and to the attention of the House. Firstly, I must add that I support the conclusions to which the Committee came. Secondly, I must express some regret about the incident which occurred last night. Again, once it started, I withdrew from the chamber because I did not want to take part in it. I think a misunderstanding took place because there were additional recommendations made by the Committee which were far outside the matter which was referred to it. It is correct that the recommendations were extremely important but I would have preferred yesterday evening to see the first part- the matter referred to the Committeedealt with there and then. It was for that reason that this morning I thought of placing on the Notice Paper a motion to enable me to express some regret to the  Sunday Observer  that the matter had not been dealt with yesterday evening. However, I did not do so. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  decided correctly and kindly understood the feelings of very many backbenchers and immediately took steps to see that this debate was brought forward. Honourable members in this House do not have any privilege other than is normally given to any other person, except in the discharge of their duties to and in this House. For example, if the article in the  Sunday Observer  named four or five members who were failing in their duties, those members would have had the normal recourse to law outside this House. However, by using a technique of saying 'a few members of the House ' or 'some members of the House' without naming them, it was able to print with impunity its remarks knowing that it would not be possible for any member to take action outside the House because he was not named in the article. I construed the article, by tradition, to be a reflection on every member. For that reason I raised the matter in the first place. 
As far as  Mr Peter  Isaacson and the other gentleman are concerned I can say only that the apology printed in the  Sunday Observer  was a recognition that there was no criticism of this House as a House. They were endeavouring to draw attention to the fact that some of the procedures in this House are perhaps rather swift and that not all debates in this House receive the full attention of every member. That was the valid point to make but the way in which the newspaper chose to do it was unfortunately, as found by the Committee of Privileges, not the correct way to do it. 
Now I come to the point of parliamentary privilege itself. I made some investigations to see what is the situation in the House of Commons and the Senate in the Canadian Parliament regarding parliamentary privilege. I suggest that the Joint Committee of the two Houses of this Parliament that will shortly examine this subject should look with care and with a view to obtaining some guidance, at the system used in the Canadian Parliament where the rights and privileges belong to both Houses. It is not really the time for me to initiate a debate on the historical reasons for the introduction of parliamentary privilege or how it arose. I conclude by saying that I am glad I raised this matter because a House that does not know its privileges and powers put people outside in a position where they do not know their standing if they offend the House directly or, sometimes, accidentally. Therefore, the sooner we establish our rights granted and guaranteed to us in the Constitution, the better will be our relations with the media and the better will be our relations with the public outside. The prestige of this House and the Senate would be enhanced once and for all. The Constitution lays down that privilege, belong to and shall be enjoyed by both Houses. I support the motion by the Leader of the House and congratulate the  Chairman  and members of the Committee of Privileges for the work they have so ably performed on behalf of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Has the Leader of the House observed that up to 4 April there were 781 unanswered questions on the Notice Paper. What steps does he propose to take, either through the House Committee or  Mr Speaker,  to ensure that questions placed on the Notice Paper by honourable members are answered? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 March 1978. 
1 ) How many times during the last S years has his Department received requests from the electors of Berwick, Vic, for a post office box to be located in Blackburn Square. 
What were the reasons for refusal. 
When does he propose to act on my recent requests on behalf of the people of Berwick. 
-For a few moments this evening I want to proceed with some discussion in the House on the desire for the peace negotiations to proceed in the Middle East. The Government, greatly to its credit, has taken the initiative in world affairs. I particularly note its attitude to the Common Fund, the Commonwealth Conference, the Australia- Japan Foundation and the negotiations at present in progress with China. I notice that the able speech made today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  draws the nation's attention to the situation which is arising in the Middle East, namely, the fluctuation between peace and war. Three times in the last 20 years the world has been on the brink of destruction through misunderstandings and sometimes misinformation about the situation in the Middle East. Perhaps the most credible and the most creditable thing that ever happened, and well worth the Nobel Peace Prize, was the sudden and dramatic move of  President  Anwar Sadat to fly to Israel on 19 November last year. It was a remarkable piece of diplomacy. 
It is very unfortunate that there are in the Middle East now only a small minority who are trying to make quite certain that negotiations do not proceed. They include some individual elements of the Palestine Liberation Organisation and some rather old fashioned members of the Israeli Government who do not carry the support of the majority of the Israeli people. Surely those in Israel who have been demonstrating and asking for peace must be heard. They remember the loss of their families and their loved ones in the Sinai war, and the only thing that is holding up negotiations at the present time is that the Israeli Government is debating whether it can accept a declaration of intent in order that a peace treaty can be signed between Israel and Egypt. I think really that it could not be beyond the Israeli people now to realise that the world is on their side and is most anxious to assist in negotiating a peace treaty. 
Therefore I suggest that, instead of trying to bargain and to make terms which are difficult for the Israel Government to accept, the Arab states would be well advised to stick to one sentence only as a pre-concept for negotiations. That sentence is in these terms: 'That Australia calls upon all parties to respect the political independence and the territorial integrity of all states in the area, of their right to live in peace, and of the aims, the resolutions and the principles of the United Nations Charter.' Surely a declaration of that sort provides an immediate opportunity for both Israel and Egypt to reopen negotiations. It is therefore somewhat saddening when one realises that the military negotiation group in Cairo has withdrawn to Israel and that at present no political negotiations are going on in Jerusalem. 
Therefore if the Government wishes now to proceed with its initiatives in international affairs, I would say that the time has come for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs themselves to travel to the Middle East to assist in starting the negotiations all over again, for Australia has over the years been well respected by both parties. I am certain that the trust it has established in international affairs will be well rewarded if the Government takes the initiative now. Who can guarantee that the situation will last and that  President  Sadat will remain in charge of Egypt? We hope, therefore, that the Government will now take the initiative and try to assist in a peace settlement in the Middle East without delay. 
I would like to talk to the House for a few moments about the tertiary education grants which we are discussing in the legislation now before the House. Those of us who have worked on the Government member's education committee have taken a good deal of trouble to try to find out whether tertiary education in the country is relevant to the needs of the country and to our future.  Sir Robert  Menzies asked me, and I am sure many other honourable members, to read the report of the former Chancellor of the University of Melbourne. That address alone has opened up a good deal of discussion on what is and what is not relevant and what courses are and are not relevant to the Australia of tomorrow. Honourable members on that committee have seen in Western Australia, Queensland, South Australia, Alice Springs in the Northern Territory, Tasmania and Victoria very impressive buildings indeed. The total capital input in buildings is something of which this nation can be exceptionally proud. Compared with other tertiary institutions, whether in the United Kingdom, Europe or in the United States, it can be seen that there is no need for us to have any anxiety about the quality and the quantity of buildings available for university education. 
What has caused us some anxiety is the duplication of institutions. I will not follow up what the former honourable member for Fremantle pointed out in a debate in his position as Minister lor Education, but we have become anxious about the number of tertiary colleges and places of learning which appear to be a duplication or which appear to be in competition with one another, particularly in Western Australia and Victoria. I do not want to take up much of the time of the House but I do want to say that I am glad to note that in the heavy industrial areas in the district from which I come, the city of Dandenong and the electorate of Holt, the Government has made a major move to give technical education a priority. The amount of $9. 1 m that has been spent in the reconstruction and improvement of the Dandenong Technical College is a fine example of the Government's attitude. 
I have had discussions with the principal of that college and I have been impressed by the general desire of those who are involved in technical education to make certain that the courses they offer are not confined to apprentices and the young people who undertake normal training and who attend normal classes but are available to all people in the community. I am impressed with the general concept that these places should be regarded not as being open only from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and being run by staff who, at 5 p.m., start their cars and go home but as places of learning that are open for the convenience of the majority of citizens. I am also impressed by the fact that the principal of this college and all those in the area who are connected with technical training are anxious to assist the young school leaver who left school under pressure from his or her parents and the boy or girl who has said: ' I am not making any progress; I am not doing well; I have simply got to go out and get a job ', and who leave school at the Form 3 or Form 4 level. I call those people the disaster group. They comprise a group about which so many reports are now being written. These people are the subject of inquiries by Senate committees examining alcohol and drug abuse and other problems. These people are young at 16 years of age and wrecks at 2 1 years of age. 
This nation cannot afford this sort of thing. Our population growth is declining. I am a member of the Government parties' immigration and ethnic affairs committee and I know that we have a serious problem with our population growth. In any case, how do we intend to defend the north of Australia if we do not have an increase in our population? We cannot afford to lose these young people. I should like to give one or two examples of what I am talking about. I do not wish to cause any offence, but a group of young people involved in a Community Youth Support Scheme were given an ordinary spelling test involving ordinary words that they would be required to use if they went out to get a job anywhere. Most of these young people received a score of 3 out of 20. How does a person get a job when his spelling ability is 3 out of 20? 
I congratulate the technical colleges in the area of my electorate for their dedication. I congratulate the Government for putting money into these colleges and for its increasing concern about technical colleges. These colleges have offered to take back into their ranks the young people who urgently need a chance to get the level of education that they lost the opportunity to obtain or unfortunately abandoned at the ages of 14, 15 or 16 years when they did not really comprehend the importance of education. From speaking to the education institutions in my electorate and everywhere I have travelled in Australia I must admit that I feel very proud of what the Government has done in relation to technical education. We look forward to receiving the Williams and Partridge reports. 
I have absolute confidence in the Government's ability to work with the Australian Schools Commission and to provide a level of education which is relevant for the children of this country for the years ahead. I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  who is sitting at the table, to be kind enough to convey the feelings of the House to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who is a member of another place. We are grateful always for the careful attention the Minister for Education pays to almost every question we put to him and every letter we write to him and we thank him for his continuing interest in education in our electorates, which he has demonstrated by the number of times that he has been to visit our electorates personally to talk to those in charge of education, to children in the schools and to those in the teaching profession. He is an admirable Minister for Education. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the deepening national concern over youth employment, including that expressed by the trade union movement, what steps do the Minister, the Minister for Education and the Cabinet propose to take concerning the introduction of a national community youth cadet scheme both at home and overseas? What steps has the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations taken to assist the special committee on youth employment appointed by the Government party committee to investigate the situation during the parliamentary recess and to make recommendations in the national interest? 
The Minister for Trade and Industry made an important visit to China. Could he tell us now what negotiations he has had with companies in Australia about broadening trade between this country and China and whether he has been successful in discussions with his colleague with a view to allowing Qantas Airways Ltd flights to Peking? These matters are of interest to us all. 
-For a few moments this evening I would like to refer to Australia's relations with the People's Republic of China. Normally it would be possible for honourable members to take part in a debate on foreign affairs lasting some considerble time. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  recently spoke for some 75 minutes in the Parliament about foreign Affairs, but for some unknown reason it has not been possible for us to have a major debate on foreign affairs, which is a matter of regret. When an honurable member visits another country as the guest of the institute of international affairs of that country it is only good manners and courtesy for him upon his return to Australia to say something to the Parliament about what he discovered and learnt in that country and to point out the valuable things that have occurred in our relations with that country over past years. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Ambassador of the People 's Republic of China,  Mr Chou  Chiu-yeh, for inviting me and my wife to go to China and spend 10 days in that country observing the changes that have taken place there over the last 10 or 20 years. 
In 1956 I went to China with the first mission of both the House of Commons and the House of Lords. Therefore, I was in a good position to be  able to observe the changes that have occurred in China over a number of years. I must tell the House that they were remarkable. The whole of the railroad system has been reorganised completely. Remarkable changes have been made in the petrochemical industry and in many other manufacturing industries in China today. They were all so kind enough to allow me an opportunity to talk to  Mr Hua,  the Director of the Institute of International Affairs, and to  Mr Li,  the Vice-president of the Institute. It was interesting to see how seriously China takes defence. Remarkably, I walked into a shop where my hosts pressed a button and the whole noor disappeared. My wife and I were taken for a walk for two and a half miles under the city of Peking to observe and see at first hand China 's defence in the event of a nuclear war. 
I was impressed too with the view of leading experts in international affairs in China when they said that the Western world today does not appreciate the threat posed by the Soviet Union through its activities in Africa. It is therefore very good news that recently at the United Nations China decided that she too should be consulted about the changing pattern of world events. Any country in the world which thinks it can conduct foreign affairs without consulting the People's Republic of China is indeed making a mistake. People who think they can do so cannot classify themselves as statesmen. 
It was a pleasure to visit the University of Peking and to hear about the damage which had been done by the Gang of Four, who thought that learning was nonsense and that passing exams was a joke. Amazingly, these people taught children to believe that their elders were of no consequence. The Gang of Four did nothing other than keep the Chinese people in a complete and utter revolutionary confusion. Therefore, how could the Chinese people advance and continue to make their way in the world with a series of revolutions? We can do nothing but congratulate the Chinese People's Government in realising that they are now anxious to establish themselves, to work with the rest of the world and to improve China's technology. 
I noticed an enormous contrast in their hydroelectric industry and their agricultural industry. In the ten days I spent there nothing was more, impressive than the way in which the Australian governments under both the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  had improved relations. We can be proud of our relations with China. We hope that the Chinese people agree with us and want us to work together. I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a Press release by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  which is an important document. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

VISIT TO CHINA 
The visit which I made to the People's Republic of China between 25 April and 4 May had two main purposes- to maintain and develop contact and communication between the Australian and Chinese Governments, and to explore the prospects of increasing and diversifying an economic relationship which is highly important to both our countries. 
These two purposes are, of course, inter-related. 
The good political relationship which has been developed between China and Australia has under-pinned a substantial growth in trade. 
Australia is now China's fourth largest trading partner and China was Australia's fifth largest export market in 1977. In three and a half days of intensive discussions which I had in Peking with the Ministers of Foreign Trade and Commerce, the Acting Ministers of Finance and Metallurgical Industry, the Vice Chairman of the State Planning Commission, and most particularly with Vice Premier Li Hsien-Nien, the approach throughout was frank, friendly and businesslike. 
The Chinese Government regards the Prime Minister's visit in 1976 as having been a great success and is pleased with the reception which the National People's Congress Delegation, led by Vice Chairman Ulanfu, received in Australia last year. 
Indeed in 1977 China sent more high level visitors to Australia than went from here to Peking- an unprecedented development in our relations and an unusual fact in China's relations with any country. 
The Chinese Government is aware, as a result of my visit, that the Australian Government had noted the significance of Chinese high level visits to Australia in 1977 and fully reciprocates China's interest in the maintenance of contact and dialogue at a high level. 
My discussions with Vice Premier, Li Hsien-Nien, took place against this background and were therefore able to deal with a wide range of subjects in a candid way. 
We noted that as countries with different governmental and social systems we do not see eye to eye on all matters, and specific areas of disagreement which had been canvassed two years ago during the Prime Minister's visit were again discussed. 
The discussions were open and relaxed, reflecting our mutual interest in clarifying understanding of the other's positions and in keeping in proper proportion the matters on which we agree and the matters on which there is disagreement. 
Amongst the views and interests we share are that there should be global and regional power balances, that no one country should dominate the South Pacific, South East Asia or the Indian Ocean, that ASEAN 's concept of a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in South East Asia has this as its objective, and that ASEAN can make an important contribution to regional stability and warrants our continuing support. 
China sees global balance and regional stability as being in its interests because it is seeking to direct the energies and talents of its vast population into the monumental tasks of modernisation. 
Despite its great achievements the People's Republic of China is very aware that it is still a developing society. 
The Chinese leadership frankly acknowledges that it faces a multitude of uncertainties in moving along the road to becoming a developed society. 
These include problems of resources allocation, the balance between food production and population growth, employment of the work force as agriculture is progessively mechanised and more labour saving devices are adopted in industry, gearing the educational system to the requirements of industrial growth, preserving self-reliance while looking more to other countries for machinery and technology and instituting incentives for production without impairing principles of equality. 
The timing of my visit to China was connected with the plans for China's modernisation which were announced by Premier Hua Kuo-Feng in his report on the Government to the National People's Congress on 26 February. 
This statement has not attracted the attention it deserved in Australia and should be the starting point for examination of our future relations with China and the opportunities open for developing them. 
Premier Hua Kuo-Feng announced that China has embarked on programs which aim to take it to the forefront of world economies by the turn of the century and he announced with some specificity ambitious targets to be achieved by 1985. 
Included among the objectives of the ten year plan for achievement by 1985 are: a ten per cent annual industrial growth rate allocation of 60 per cent of government expenditure on economic construction a steel production target of 60 million tons per annum or 2.4 times last year's production rate development of 120 large scale plants, including ten iron steel plants and nine non-ferrous metal plants. 
Indeed, as I have already described it in China, the Chinese have now embarked on their second long march. 
If China succeeds in the aims it has set for itself for modernisation, or makes substantial progress along this road, the implications will be significant for the world and for Australia. 
The program and the policies of Premier Hua Huo-Feng's Government have opened up new opportunities for the development of closer relations between China and Australia at the government level, at the commercial level, and in the highly important area of technical exchange. 
The Australian Government has already indicated in practical ways its wish to strengthen links with China by encouraging people to people contacts through its cultural exchange programs and, most recently, by its decision to establish the Australia-China Council, by financial support of scientific exchanges and by taking the initiative in arranging with China programs of potentially great importance to both countries to exchange experience and expertise in the fields of agriculture and minerals production. 
The Chinese Government has made clear the value it sees in these exchanges and has also, in a direct way, informed me of its requirement for natural resources from Australia in addition to technology and plant equipment. 
I received assurances at the top level from those directly concerned in both Peking and Shanghai that as long as prices are competitive, China will import considerably larger quantities of iron ore on a long term basis from Australia, which it looks to as its main supplier. 
China will require significantly increased quantities of iron ore to meet its steel production targets and has indicated that Australian ores are suitable for blending with domestically produced ores. 
During my visit to Shanghai I inspected unloading facilities and was informed of plans for construction of a new port unloading area to handle the expected increase in iron ore imports. 
China is an important market for Australian iron and steel. I was assured by Chinese authorities that although China planned to rapidly increase its own production of steel the planned rate of production would be insufficient to meet their needs. I expect that there will be continuing export opportunities for Australian iron and steel in the Chinese market. 
Apart from iron ore and steel I discussed the possibility of the export to China of other Australian minerals and nonferrous metals, including aluminium, copper, lead, zinc, nickel and mineral sands. 
My visit to China also opened up prospects for Australian industry in new fields. 
China is interested in acquiring advanced mineral and metallurgical technology and in developing its infrastructure to support its modernisation program, in this regard Australian techniques in the extraction of minerals, their transport from the mine and the construction of deep harbours are of direct relevance to China 's conditions. 
It is possible that further official exchanges will indicate other areas of opportunity for Australian consultancy expertise. 
The Chinese Government informed me that it now seeks to buy patents and this removes an obstacle which has existed in the past to the sale of advanced Australian technology. 
I am confident that much Australian technology is suitable for China's conditions and requirements, an obvious example being our agricultural machinery. 
In this context it is relevant that China's agricultural modernisation objectives include: achievement of 85 per cent mechanisation in all major processes of farm work by 1 985 a four to five per cent annual increase in agricultural output over the next eight years. 
Australia manufactures a full range of agricultural equipment and it was indicated to me that there are good prospects for use of Australian technology and equipment in the further mechanisation of China 's agriculture. 
Accordingly, Australia will be giving high priority to its participation in the agricultural machinery exhibition which is to be held in Peking prior to the end of 1978. 
Plans are also under way for an early exchange of missions between China and Australia which will initiate an ongoing program of exchanges of agricultural expertise and information. 
My discussions with Chinese leaders also covered in some detail the question of people to people contact. 
It is a remarkable fact that Australia ranks second only to Japan in the number of tourists visiting China. 
Around 4,000 Australians visited China last year and I was informed that some 10,000 will be visiting China in 1978. 
China has an overall plan for tourist numbers including quotas for individual countries, and the very significant increase in the number of Australians visiting China reflects the importance China attaches to our bilateral relations. 
The possible involvement of Qantas in servicing the big increase in tourist traffic to China was discussed. 
There are other indications of growing people to people contact. 
For example, our teachers and students in China on government exchange programs, some of whom I met, and over 20 teachers directly recruited by the Chinese authorities, are making an important contribution to better understanding. 
My first task on my return will be to report to my colleagues on my discussions in China so that appropriate consideration can be given to follow up action. 
I will also consult with industry in order to ensure that industry leaders are fully aware of the significance of China's long term plans for modernisation and of the opportunities and challenges for participation by Australian industries. 
The potential for increased trade with China, combined with the recently announced arrangements for expanded export incentives should provide a stimulus to business expansion in Australia. 
It is appropriate that I should put on record in Australia as I have expressed directly to my Chinese hosts, my appreciation of the warm reception which I received in China 's three major cities and of the positive and practical approach taken by Chinese leaders in all my discussions. 
I return from my visit to China with a heightened awareness of the scope which exists for the further development of Sino-Australian relations. 
I thank the House for its attention. I am grateful for being able on this occasion to give an address for a few moments about our relations with China. I hope they will proceed amicably. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the fact that the families of some of my constituents have lost their lives in bombardment by the Syrian forces in Lebanon and in view of the fact that three relatives of my constituents are in Lebanon and cannot get to the international airport to fly back to Australia, despite their being Australian citizens, will the Minister inform the House of the situation in Lebanon and advise what these Australian citizens should do to get to the airport? 
It would not be often that this House has placed on record words of praise for a wife of a former member of this House. But yesterday in the fading afternoon light within Christ Church, South Yarra, Melbourne, I stood with a congregation who remembered with thanks the life work of a very gallant and great Australian lady, the wife of the former honourable member for Balaclava, and the Minister for Air between 1949 and 195 1. Lady Vera Deakin White, O.B.E., was the daughter of Australia's founder, Federal statesman and Prime Minister, Alfred Deakin. She had lived a brilliant life having been born in 1891 and after her education at Melbourne Church of England Girl's Grammar School, Melbourne University, Berlin and Budapest, she became a talented musician in her own right. 

 Sir John Nimmo in his eloquent tribute yesterday reminded us of her life service of over 60 years to t'.e Australian Red Cross Society in two world wars. It was of the highest order. Thousands of ex-servicemen and women, the disabled, the handicapped, and later the crippled children, knew and recognised her concern for them. It is perhaps fitting, therefore, that this House takes note of the passing of this wonderful Australian lady whose life was an example of Christian humility and simple affection towards all whom she met. She certainly requires no memorial. Immortality is hers as it is her distinguished statesman father who showed this nation the meaning of untarnished public service. I believe that this honourable House would wish to convey its respects to this distinguished family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  House adjourned at 10.24 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) Why is the Cranbourne area (STD Zone 059) outside the Melbourne metropolitan zone. 
When does he intend to take steps to see that machinery and equipment are installed to include the Cranbourne area in the Melbourne metropolitan telephone zone. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 4 May, 1 978: 
How many (a) potato harvesting machines and (b) planting and lifting machines made in Australia are sold in any one year. 
How many planting and lifting machines are imported. 
Has the Government considered imposing a quota for imported machines so that Australian production of these machines remains economically viable and protects the jobs of those in the Australian potato planting and lifting machinery industry. 

 -Mr Speaker, as you are the Presiding Officer of the House and the  Chairman  of two committees concerning procedure, may I put a question to you? 
I do not want to get into a political slanging match with my friend the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who has just spoken about Aboriginal education but I must say that having visited Kormilda College in Darwin, the Aboriginal Teacher Training College in Batchelor, and the schools at Bathurst Island, Melville Island and Mornington Island, I am astounded that he could make the speech that he has just made. I am quite astounded. 
If the honourable member will just hold his tongue for a moment and take it steady - 
If the honourable member will listen to me we can argue about it later. There was, and there is, a problem about whether the money for Aboriginal education is getting to those who need the education or whether it is getting lost on the way through administration procedures. That was one aspect of Aboriginal education that troubled many of us on our visits to the Northern Territory and elsewhere. But frankly, if the honourable member for Capricornia wants to attack the Queensland Government about its education policy or its work in hospitals at Mornington Island and elsewhere, I should just like to say that so far as I am concerned, and from what I have observed, he is doing it entirely on a party political basis. What I have seen in certain areas- I do not say that it is altogether satisfactory- is far better than I would have thought possible. 
I should now like to deal with what I originally wanted to say. As far as the electors of Holt are concerned, the Budget was certainly tough and it was certainly expected. I have yet to meet anybody who would suggest that this country should run further into debt, that we should mortgage the future of our children or give up the progress that we have achieved already in reducing both inflation and interest rates. Certainly, the hardest thing any government has to do, like any honest parent, is to say no and to mean it. This has to be done from time to time. I spent my winter recess in the electorate of Holt except for visits to the Northern Territory and Queensland. It would therefore be unfair if I did not say that the great successful international companies and successful multi-national international companies, like General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, International Harvester Australia Ltd, Perkins Engines Australia Pty Ltd and all those who work with and are connected with the motor industry, are sincerely thankful that in the Budget the Government reduced sales tax. This has been a great help to them and to the motor industry. I have had a chance to visit various companies, schools and hospitals and have had the opportunity to take note of what the Government is spending on education. For example the new Dandenong Technical College is costing $9. 7m. It should be completed by next year. 
The Federal Government's record in care for the old people, the disabled and the disadvantaged is well demonstrated by the funds it has supplied for the building of Walara, for sheltered workshops and for the new community centre which it has financed at Keysborough. At St Marys, a vast community centre has been built in the middle of Dandenong. I hope that the 
Government will assist financially with this project as well. It is quite certain that Dandenong will be the city centre of Melbourne in the 1 980s and, therefore, those who are responsible for local government in the area are thankful that this Government will transfer funds for the advantage of that developing area. Even though times are difficult I have noticed in the Budget that Australia's expenditure on overseas aid to developing nations has not fallen. It has increased by 8.6 per cent to $455m. It is, therefore, good that we do not forget, even in difficult times, that we have a duty to our neighbours. 
We noticed that the Government has not fallen down on its promises concerning training programs. There is an increase of 44 per cent. It is providing $173m for the Commonwealth assisted training programs. The four Community Youth Support Scheme programs to help with youth employment have been fully funded in the Holt electorate for this year. As for those who need social security and welfare payments, it is interesting to note that the Budget provides $8 billion to help the family, the handicapped and the aged. Liberal philosophy believes in looking after those who need help. Its policy basis is humanitarian. 
I would like to follow on from the reasoned speech given by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones).  I want to turn to some of the more important national issues, to face them and to do some positive thinking. I should like to refer to the energy crisis, the problem of the Aboriginal settlement at Mornington Island and, finally, the urgent need for a national youth community cadet scheme to assist in the evergrowing problem of youth employment which simply will not go away. 
If the honourable member speaks a little louder I will be able to hear what he says. 
Thank you very much. I am very glad to receive the compliments of the honourable member for Robertson. It is a very good idea and it has been supported by many other people. 
The general public in our country for many years has believed that Australia is just plain lucky. Unlimited fuel supplies are there and, therefore, we can all have cheap petrol. Thus, any concept that we should conserve our fuel has not crossed our minds. Indeed, our fuel supplies were discovered between the middle 1950s and the 1960s. We have been living off them ever since but that does not mean to say that we have not had to import petroleum from overseas. As we begin to use up our reserves in this country our fuel bill will increase in the next 10 to 15 years. Some say that we will be importing 45 per cent of our petroleum between 1980 and 1990. The effect on the balance of payments could be catastrophic even if one sets off against it the export of Australian coal. 
It is surely obvious that we must now take seriously the problem of energy consumption and prepare ourselves for the situation that is coming. Therefore, it is better to look at the situation calmly. Because of the size of Australia, 45 per cent of our petroleum fuel consumption is on transport. Less of this fuel is likely to be found, barring major discoveries. What we do have in this country in quantity but not quite unlimited quantity- 192.92 mcm- is liquid petroleum gas. It is my view that strategically it is downright nonsense and even dangerous from a national security point of view for us to plan on using imported petroleum in the years ahead because even if we mobilised now we would have only 90 days of petrol available to the nation. Therefore, I am all for major changes to be made immediately to our energy usage which will avoid trebling Australia's oil imports in the 1980s, together with the balance of payments problem. The Federal Government and all State governments should set an example. Slowly and surely we should start to fit all our vehicles with liquid petroleum gas tanks. The vehicles could then be charged with both petroleum and gas. The changeover should not cost more than $500. This should be tax deductible. There is also no reason why the Government should not seriously consider using our uranium. What is the point of having the uranium and not using it. There is no reason why we should not be in the forefront of the world in enriching uranium, exporting uranium and eventually storing uranium in the deep areas of Western Australia at levels where there is no underground disturbance. We are fortunate to have an area where the vitrified uranium waste could be buried. I therefore call upon all State governments and the Federal Government to give the nation a lead in the conservation of Australia's fuel supplies. 
I turn for a few moments to the tradegy of Mornington Island. It is inhabited by 800 Aboriginal people, including those who fled from Bentinch. My visit to the Island was with the agreement of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  after consulting the 

 Deputy Director of Education in Brisbane and the  Chairman  of the Government Parties' education committee,  Senator Martin.  Mornington Island is not quite the place where one can land in the early morning aeroplane and take off the same evening as an instant expert ready to meet the television cameras in Sydney or Melbourne. With the background experience of other parts of the world I wandered round that beautiful island for four days between 19 and 24 July as the guest of the Uniting Church and those connected with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I am grateful to my hosts, particularly Bob Quick and Scottie Flemming, for looking after me while I was there. To be perfectly frank I was astounded at some of the conditions I found. They were even comparable to the refugee camps in Palestine. 
There is no doubt that the Islanders are of the greatest cultural heritage to Australia. Their struggle for survival has been momentous. We must do everything in our power to help them. I sat chatting with members of the Council- Larry Lanley, Prince Escort and the Roughseys- and I can still hear them describing the early days of the white ship bringing in Reverend Hall and his murder by the people from the mainland just for tobacco. They said: 'We were all outdoor hunting people. We came to the mission for food, for church, for school and for learning'. They have endured cyclones. They have new buildings. Their new State school is excellent. Their new houses with solar heating are perfectly adequate. What puzzled me was the remark by one of them. He said: 'You are giving us education and learning but, tell me, what will my people do when they have finished this learning?' There is no industry and husbandry is in its infancy. That day 200 head of cattle came ashore. I am not too certain that we should not encourage some of them to go back, like their ancestors, and relearn their ancient skills. 
In order to sustain their faith in us perhaps the Federal Government should establish coastguard stations there with the co-operation of the Queensland Government. Perhaps we should also consider raising an Aboriginal volunteer police unit. It would be quite wrong if I did not say that I was deeply impressed with the work of the principal of the High School,  Mr Ronald  Knox, and his staff, particularly the Aboriginal teaching aides, and the sisters and nurses from the Queensland Government who work in the hospital as well as those in charge of welfare. Perhaps the final word of wisdom came from one of the leaders when he said: 'Why cannot you leave us in peace and simply agree between your governments about the man who will advise us?' That is not a bad request from the people. The Premier of Queensland may think that Canberra is very far away. We, as back bench members, may be humiliated. We have to learn to accept humiliation. We have to learn to accept patience and courage. They are good Christian virtues. As members of parliament we must be patient while the present situation continues. I think it is the only thing we can do. I simply do not think the Federation could stand the seizure by the Federal Government of Crown land belonging to a State and I do not think that the constitutional validity of the referendum is of any value. I believe that it is a non sequitur. 
I turn now to the last point- youth unemployment. Why do some people imagine that the youth employment problem will go away? How can they possibly think such a thing? What is the experience of Canada, the United States, Italy and France? The experience is that with technological development and with women going into industry, the chances of young people obtaining employment are becoming fewer and fewer.  Major programs  have been mounted in almost every other European country for a national youth employment scheme. I really cannot understand why we do not set about doing this ourselves. Professor Ford of the University of New South Wales, Brigadier Macready, a representative of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen), Dr Kelsall  of the Mount Eliza Staff College and many people connected with youth affairs all agree that something of this sort should be done. I was particularly impressed with an interview I had with  Mr Peter  Nolan of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have now come to the conclusion that if this nation is going to fight party politics over unemployment, including the unemployment of young people, we will certainly betray all that we have achieved in the past. 
-It is of the greatest possible regret to me that between 1972 and 1975 the honourable member's party did not pass one single provision to assist young people. I am sorry to say that but unfortunately it is true. Therefore, with the help of the more sensible honourable members on the other side of the House, I am endeavouring to formulate a national youth community cadet scheme which I will give to the Government so that everybody can look at it. They can tear it about and do what they like with it but I think that someone has to make that effort. I am prepared to do it. I hope that the honourable gentleman will assist me. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
1 ) records its appreciation, thanks and congratulations to President Carter of the United States, Prime Minister Begin of Israel and President Sadat of Egypt on their statesmanship and on their successful conclusion of their Conference for peace in the Holy Land; 
calls upon the Government of Australia to lend all its diplomatic resources to assist in further progress for peace in the Middle East, with the help of Jordan and the Palestine people; and 
calls upon the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs to make a statement on the Middle East peace talks, as well as the situation in the Lebanon. 
The motion is seconded by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr hatter)  and supported by honourable members on both sides of the House. 
-For a few moments tonight I want to inquire of honourable members whether they trunk that the proceedings of this House make it easy for it to be the great national debating forum, a place where members come to hear the major subjects which face the nation being coherently debated. Or would they say that some of our Standing Orders inhibit the actual debate? For example, if my friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  wishes to intervene, I am not permitted, as I would be in the Senate of the United States of America, to yield and to allow him to put a question to me. Standing Orders forbid any intervention and therefore the practicality of any form of debate becomes very difficult. One is obliged to endure from time to time, a long ministerial address read from the despatch box for half an hour or longer; and sometimes honourable members come in for 20 minutes, give their peroration and leave. There seems to be no continuity in the debate. Therefore I ask the Standing Orders Committee whether it is satisfied that the Standing Orders at present encourage debate or whether they inhibit debate. Until we have decided that I do not think we can make much progress. 

 Mr Speaker addressed the conference of Commonwealth Speakers and Presiding Officers and I think he was perfectly correct when he said, in short: 'By what right are we cut off from our electors?' We have passed the regulation which means that our debates are not broadcast after a certain time. Maybe I have something to say which would interest people but we have decided that we do not want broadcasting. Of course everybody knows that our speeches, or what is left of them when the Press has had a look at them- I prefer that the Press gets my facts straight before it twists them- are almost nonexistent when they reach the electorate. This honourable House should demand the right of communication with its electors by the most direct possible means. That means is the television media. Why should we place our rights in the hands of a few people who run programs and whose little favourites run on to various programs? Why should we place the power of debate, our debate, in the hands of the media? We must be quite lacking in our understanding to allow the media to control what is put over to the nation as a matter of public importance. 
I want to deal with the final point at which I want the committee to look. We have a debate known as a debate on a matter of public importance. This extraordinary operation takes place almost every day. A sort of truncated confusion takes place when members of the Opposition get up- I do not blame them; it is their right- and lambast the Government, in some sort of political charade, over something about which they have decided to take the Government on. Eight members on one side get up to say it is a matter of public importance. I do not believe that Erskine May ever thought that that was the reason for raising a matter of public importance. A matter of public importance is a matter that a back bencher wants to bring up which is of immediate, urgent and national importance. I do not believe that that procedure as presently organised is valuable. Therefore it behoves the Committee to allow the Opposition to have a full debating day to discuss matters of national importance that it wants to bring before the nation. Matters of national public importance should be confirmed, as outlined in Erskine May, by  Mr Speaker  as urgent matters of national and public importance. I wish the Committee well in its deliberations. Unless the House, that is the whole House, asserts itself, we will have the Parliament we deserve. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-For a few moments I shall say a few words about the services which we receive. I put on record- not to cause any upset in the debate- that I have had the most beneficial co-operation from the Department of Administrative Services in creating my new electoral office. It would be useful if, from time to time, honourable members would pay some tribute to the Department because of what they have received. I put the situation quite clearly. The other Parliament from which I come gave members no electoral office. There was no car. There were no secretaries. Honourable members in this Parliament are extremely fortunate in that they are able to rely on a government department to provide them with a number of extremely valuable services. During the parliamentary recess I visited the car pool belonging to the Department of Administrative Services in Melbourne. I went there as a private member to see whether there were any problems at that car pool which could be properly improved. 
As a result of that visit I came to the conclusion that the tests with liquid petroleum gas which were carried out by the Government car pool and by the Department were unsatisfactory. The Government cars had been transferred completely to the use of liquid petroleum gas. The drivers at the car pool were then asked whether they thought these cars were of any value and whether the changeover to LP gas was of any advantage. Naturally anybody who is put in a Government car which is using just LP gas comes to the conclusion that he does not know where he will be able to refill the car. Although the tests were satisfactory in one way they were not approved of by those who did the tests. I suggest that the car pool carry out a futher set of tests and use the same system used by the Melbourne taxis. The Government car pool should use a tank of petrol and LP gas together. There is no problem about this. I suggest that this is one way to have a most enormous saving in the use of petrol. 
I agree that if a driver is supposed to go to Wangaratta, and the car is using LP gas, the question is where will he refill his car. I agree with the drivers I met at the car pool that it would be better if the Government car pool had interchangeable tanks. I would say that those I interviewed at the Government car pool in Melbourne would be extremely dissatisfied if I did not let the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  know their views and opinions and my discoveries when I went there. I suggest that it is a complete waste of time not to have proper car cleaning equipment installed in Melbourne. I support other honourable members who have suggested that most of the cars should have air conditioning. Those are three simple things that should be done. 
Is that not a ridiculous situation to have occurred? I am very sorry; I tried to support the Government to the best of my ability but there are three things that I suggest this car pool should have. Firstly, it should have LP gas in tanks. Secondly, there should be proper cleaning equipment for all cars, and, thirdly, all government cars should have air conditioning. I am glad to have had this opportunity to support those who work in the government car pool and to thank them for all they do for us. I think it is only polite that honourable members should say that they are all very grateful for the work of the Department and particularly for those who work in the government car pool service. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $233,067,000. 
Department of Finance 
Proposed expenditure, $25,379,000. 
Advance to the Minister for Finance 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 25,000,000. 
-Taking into account that I have on the Notice Paper a motion covering the subject, I think it would be proper if I said a few words about the Camp David peace treaty. I have been involved in the Middle East for over 20 years. The announcement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the work he has doneas well as the work of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Australian Government are truly commendable. It is not always possible for the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs to advertise exactly what the Department of Foreign Affairs has been doing, but I think it would be a mistake if this House did not take into account their work and at the same time not only thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for what they have done but also extend our good wishes to all those who are intimately involved in obtaining a peaceful solution in the Middle East. This is particularly important in relation to the Lebanon, and there are many Lebanese people in Australia. For example, at this moment an Australian citizen who is a constituent of mine is being detained in Israel and I am hoping to hear either today or tomorrow that he has been released. 
In a spirit of co-operation in the Middle East, I hope that the Lebanese, the Syrians, the Jordanians and the Palestinians for once will understand that the United States and Egypt and the state of Israel are most anxious to see that the Palestinian state is re-established and that this step which has been taken is only one step in the long and difficult negotiations ahead. Having been involved for many years in the Middle East, there is only one thing I can say: This nation is particularly thankful for the work of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and at the same time acknowledges the views of the Australian Labor Party and hopes that it too will co-operate in trying to bring peace to the Holy Land. The efforts that have been made by this Government are truly commendable and will be accepted by the nation. 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the increase in passenger motor vehicle registrations since the Budget? Is he now in a position to give the House any information on the future prospects for the motor industry in Australia? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, this afternoon at Question Time the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  attempted to answer an arranged question concerning H. J. Heinz and Co. Australia Ltd. 
It was a question without notice. The company concerned is in the electorate of Holt. I consider that the instigating of the question about which the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  has told me is an extraordinary parliamentary discourtesy and hardly the way to make for the best industrial relations in the area which I represent. Indeed the Minister took no trouble at all to consult the company, the union or the member who represents the area concerned. Heinz has an investment of $20m in Dandenong and is responsible for the job security of over 1,000 employees, 450 of whom are members of the Food Preservers Union of Australia. I am glad to state that I have met the shop steward personally. Concerning the recent problems over a log of claims, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission ordered that the parties participate in a further conference at their convenience in an endeavour to solve the problem finally. As a result an agreement was put by the union to its members that they receive an extra $13 per week, $5 of which had already been agreed upon before the Commission and $8 of which was agreed upon at the conference ordered by the Commission. 
Following a telephone conversation with the managing director and the personnel officer of the company I have received a telex. I would be grateful if the Opposition would give me leave to have that incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The telex read as follows- 

ATTENTION: 

 Mr Bill Yates 
Liberal Party of Australia 
Canberra 
URGENT 
The H J Heinz Company Australia Ltd has been subjected to a series of strikes, slopwork meetings and overtime bans since the announcement of the Federal Budget on August15. 
The Food Preservers' Union's point being that the Federal Budget represented a further loss of real wages to the work-force which should be recouped from the employer. 
A log of claims was served on the company on August 22, 1978. In an attempt to resolve the situation the company and the union have appeared twice before the Arbitration and Conciliation Commission. The matter was not resolved in private conference before the commission and the commission ordered the parties to participate in further conferences at their convenience in an endeavour to finally resolve the matter. 
On September 13, in an effort to get the striking workforce back to work the company made an offer to the union. This was subsequently put to a mass meeting and accepted. Work resumed with the return of the night shift on September 14. 
The company advises me that it would welcome an opportunity to meet with  Mr Street  to explain its position and to draw his attention to the difficulties faced by the manufacturing sector as a result of being caught between the conflicting objectives of government policies, the Arbitration and Conciliation Commission, the P J T, the unions and the company's basic objective of conducting a financially viable business. 
W. Barr 
26.9.78 
5.30 PM 
I thank the House. The company advises me that it would welcome an opportunity to meet the Minister,  Mr Street,  to explain its position and to draw his attention to the difficulties faced by the manufacturing industry as a result of being caught between the conflicting objectives of government policies, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal, the unions and the company's basic objective of conducting a financially viable business. It is therefore absolutely clear that it is now in the national interest that a national conference should try to come to some successful proposition concerning a national wages policy. 
-I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 4, 1 will move: 
That this House- 
1 ) deplores the number of personal attacks being made on the private affairs and interests of members and their families; 
believes that such actions tend to damage the very basis of Parliamentary honour and all honourable members; 
endorses the Standing Orders, that any imputation or innuendo reflecting on the personal integrity of a member is highly disorderly, at all times during the proceedings of this House, except only by way of substantive motion; and 
invites all members to uphold the reputation of this House and Parliament both at home and overseas. 
-There are many Lebanese Australian families who are anxious for their relatives in Lebanon and they have every reason to worry. Last night the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and I called on the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  to try to establish what the present situation is. Not a day passes without a telephone call to these people saying that one of their families has been lost in North Lebanon. As a result of the discussion last night with the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister made a statement today before leaving for New South Wales and that statement is of very grave consequence to the families in Lebanon. I would like to draw the attention of the House to the situation. 
On all three fronts- North Lebanon, Beirut city itself and South Lebanon- fighting is going on and many civilian casualties have been caused. The problem is that some of the Lebanese are not able even to get away from the fighting and now many thousands of Lebanese are refugees in their own country. With the Army paralysed, the police not operating, a United Nations force operating in South Lebanon and with the situation deteriorating every day, one would think that our Government and our Ministers who appear on the United Nations platforms and visit the major countries of the world, would themselves take part in an endeavour to produce a peace conference amongst the leaders in Lebanon. It is so serious that even the Christians are fighting amongst themselves and the factions of the Chamoun group are now fighting other Christians in North Lebanon. 
This Government has every right to call upon the non-aligned nations who make so much noise all over the world about the major powers and what they are and are not doing. It is high time that the non-aligned nations, particularly member nations of the Commonwealth, started to take some proper action in international affairs. Being non-aligned does not mean that a nation can stand back and do nothing. It should act according to its desire for positive neutrality, and positive neutrality means that they should take some action. It is simply useless to say: 'Leave the Lebanese leaders or the Lebanese factions to fight and quarrel'. The churches in Lebanon also owe a responsiblity to their people, particularly the Maronite bishops and Archbishop Hakimos and others. 
It is simply nonsense for the Australian Government or any other government to say that it cannot do anything about the situation in ' Lebanon. If there is a will there is a way and I suggest that our Government should seriously and properly set about convening a non-aligned nations' conference to which the churches and leaders in Lebanon should be invited. It is no use saying that there is not a suitable place in which to hold the conference. After all, Nicosia in Cyprus is not far away. If they do not bring about an end to this confusion in Lebanon it may well ruin all the work that President Carter has done at Camp David; it may completely destroy the tremendous diplomatic effort that has occurred in the last three weeks. I therefore call upon this Government to show international initiative by taking some active step towards convening forthwith a non-aligned nations' conference, particularly of member nations of the Commonwealth. 
I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister a question which concerns all of us. In view of the events at Maralinga and the problems now of high and low grade nuclear waste disposal, will the  Deputy  Prime Minister inform the House what progress has been made in any joint discussion with other countries concerning the establishment of an uranium enrichment plant and also a vitrification and calcination plant for waste disposal in Australia? Does he not agree that these two plants would give Australia much better control over her own uranium supplies exported throughout the world, keep Australia in the forefront of atomic science for energy and medical needs, and also demonstrate to the world our deep concern about the disposal of our own nuclear waste? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House, mindful of the great sacrifice that thousands of Australian servicemen and women have made for peace in the Middle East and Lebanon in 2 World Wars- 
calls upon the Government to take action in cooperation with the Commonwealth Governments and non-aligned Governments to end the chaos and destruction of beautiful Lebanon by asking the Australian Minister at the United Nations to invite the Security Council to- 
pass a resolution placing Lebanon under temporary United Nations trusteeship; 
appoint a United Nations resident Commissioner to assist President Sarkis to restore order; 
confirm that the Syrian armed forces will withdraw beyond Bekka; 
obtain additional United Nations units from Canada, Australia, New Zealand as well as Pakistan, and 
take steps to arrange later for a United Nations plebiscite to be held to determine which regions, if any, wish to secede to Syria; 
calls for the appointment of an International Constitutional Commission to re-write the paralysed and worn out Lebanese constitution to ensure that Lebanon becomes a confederate neutral state like Switzerland, and 
invites the Prime Minister to send the Foreign Minister to Lebanon and to the United Nations so that the world can be sure that Australia is able and willing to take the initiative in international affairs and, in particular, to help the Lebanese people throughout the world. 
-Firstly, I desire to apologise to the Chair. I did not know that it was going to permit some discussion on this matter of great importance to the thousands of Lebanese families in this country. I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  by making this statement, has done this country a great service. However, the situation deteriorates every hour and as the days go on the chances of a solution become even more remote. What is far more serious is that the work which the United States Government has so ably done with the Government of Egypt now stands in very great danger. Therefore, whatever happens it is essential that the United States and the Soviet Union lend their efforts to bring a halt to the complete dismemberment of the Lebanon. The constitution of the Lebanon is so old fashioned and worn out that it is virtually unworkable. Therefore, surely the very best thing that the United Nations could achieve would be to ask on all sides that there be a ceasefire until a new Lebanese constitution can be written in an up to date form. In the meantime we must express to the Lebanese families in this country our great sense of anguish and sorrow that their very beautiful country is being torn apart at this time. Many of the Lebanese in Australia, especially in my electorate of Holt, and in other electorates, have asked what the Australian Government can do. 
I believe that the statement given by the Foreign Minister is constructive, but I honestly believe that our representative should return to the Lebanon and should not be stationed at Damascus. That is not said with any feeling of disrespect for the Syrian Government which has a severe problem of" its own. Indeed, it would be unfair and wrong if this House did not thank the Syrian Government for what it has endeavoured to do. It is clear to every person connected with the Middle East that the situation now has gone far beyond what can be done by the Syrian Government or by other interested governments in the region. There is no way out of it other than for the United Nations Security Council to meet and to decide that the present fighting in Lebanon must stop and that a major United Nations security force must take over while the new constitution is being written. In the meantime, sympathies from all members of this House go out to the Lebanese families in this country, who week after week and day after day get sad and shattering news concerning their families. Therefore, I am glad this afternoon that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has brought them some comfort and has at last made a constructive statement that he has been actively working at the United Nations to see whether the great powers can bring peace to a most beautiful country, for if we fail in this the whole of the present Middle East negotiations could collapse around us. 
If anybody imagines that it is going to be possible to bring a peaceful solution to the Middle East without consulting the Soviet Union directly or indirectly he must be gravely mistaken. It would be far better to reconvene the discussion on the island of Rhodes as soon as possible. In the meantime our heartfelt sorrow goes out to the Lebanese families, especially those who are here and those who are suffering. Our particular wishes go out to the Lebanese politicians, who should be doing their very best right now with the United Nations and  Dr Waldheim  to bring a halt to the dismemberment of one of the most beautiful countries in the Middle East. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given us at least some basis for hope, but I would be happy if he would return to the United Nations to make sure that our words and our thoughts come before the Security Council. Australians did not die in the Lebanon or in the Western Desert and lives were not sacrificed in the last World War or the World War before that for nothing. This nation is not prepared to stand by and idly do nothing. Therefore, although I commend the able speech given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would suggest that the majority of those who have been connected with the Middle East and know the Middle East would hope that he would return to the United Nations forthwith and make sure that our views are made absolutely known to the Security Council and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and that the ceasefire should come about in the Lebanon as soon as possible. 
Whilst I congratulate the Minister, I hope that he will take active steps to go back to the United Nations in an attempt to get a complete ceasefire and a complete reorganisation of the United Nations forces in the Lebanon as soon as possible. If this does not happen I very much doubt whether the peace that President Carter is so anxiously constructing in the Middle East will succeed. To leave the Soviet Union out of any discussions concerning the Middle East must indeed be a mistake. Therefore, we hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and all those who are connected with the Middle East will start again their valuable work at the United Nations in an endeavour to make certain that the fighting in the Lebanon ceases as soon as possible. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
-Does the Minister for Transport have any further information concerning the Cessna light aircraft which was reported missing during the weekend on a journey from Moorabbin to King Island and in relation to which a transcript of the radio communication with the radio control centre was released? Can the Minister tell the House what was the location of that aircraft on the last fix and what is known to have happened? 
-Has the Minister for Defence any information on why armoured reconnaissance vehicles or armoured cars cannot be manufactured by the Australian motor industry? Has he considered the fact that if these vehicles were manufactured in this country there would be a considerable saving of international exchange? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to raise a matter of privilege which was initiated earlier by the  Deputy  Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The High Court of Australia has endeavoured to pass a ruling or make a statement which concerns the privileges of this honourable House. I would be grateful if you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would convey my views to  Mr Speaker-  that the High Court 's decision is ultra vires. This House in 1 90 1 was given its parliamentary privileges, which were to be no more and no less than those enjoyed by the House of Commons at that date. The Constitution also determined that this House should decide matters of privilege for itself and that nobody else should do so.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be aware that the Committee of Privileges has sat on a number of occasions. You will be aware also that the privileges that belong to this House are something upon which we will have no adjudication at all by anybody other than the members of this House. If this House is not prepared to care for its privileges, which it has been granted, if it wishes to accept what exists in the United States of America, and if a supreme court starts telling this House what its duties are, that will be the greatest possible tragedy for this House and for all its members.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would be grateful if you would be so kind as to convey my views to  Mr Speaker.  I consider that under the Constitution any judicial interpretation on what are our rights belong to this House alone and to no other body. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that he answered a question on 4 March 1976 in this House about the motor car that he uses in Canberra? Are the reports correct that shortly he will be replacing the car which he now uses in Canberra with an Australian made vehicle? If so, will a similar principle be applied to vehicles owned by statutory authorities and commercial undertakings under Commonwealth control and, above all, to the Australian Diplomatic Service? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Young's)  be agreed to. 
It sometimes makes me sad to hear from members of the Opposition speeches of the sort we have just heard. They have obviously learnt absolutely nothing since 1903. Union affairs bear no reality to today's world. It is an extremely sad situation. In the United States and in other countries no union ever worries about being subject to the normal laws of contract. 
If the honourable member would just hold his tongue and listen he would perhaps learn something. It is extremely sad to hear speeches of that sort. I agree with the Opposition in relation to one matter only and that is the matter of penalty clauses. I never happen to agree with penalty clauses. I thought that in law they would be unenforcable and would turn union leaders into martyrs. I would far prefer in a question of damages for the court to decide what damages should be extracted from the person who got himself involved in a secondary boycott. 
I remember asking a question of  Mr Halfpenny  at a public meeting in Melbourne where many directors were present. I put one simple question to him. I said to him: 'I do not understand why you and your union friends, or some of you, always object to being subject to the law of contract or the law of the land. What do you think about that?' He replied, I think quite fairly: We in the unions do not intend to be subject to any law or any laws of contract'. Indeed, they wish to be outlaws. That is the exact reason why this Liberal Government has decided in its best wisdom to protect the rank and file members of the unions against the tyrannical power of a few- not all-union leaders who choose, not for the benefit of their workers but for the benefit of themselves, very often deliberately to throw this country into complete confusion. 
A first class example was the Yallourn power strike. I can say only that unless we can get some common sense and ask the unions to act responsibly and to accept that it is necessary for contracts in major industries today to be subject to the normal laws such as those which exist in the United States we will have absolutely no hope of improving the country's economic position. Therefore I support in part what the Government is trying to do by way of this legislation. I do not think it is perfect and I quite understand the historical feelings of the Opposition. 
Historical- it comes right down from 1904. We simply must understand that the Opposition does not intend ever to be bound by any law of this land. I am sorry, but I believe that people in this country are bound by laws and I believe they should be bound by the law of contract where fair contracts are entered into. At the last election this Government received a great deal of support from the rank and file of working people in this country. What is more, I know it and they know it. If I did not get up and say these things tonight Opposition members would say when it came to the backing of it: 'He is always willing to talk around the electorate but he will never get up and say these things in Parliament. ' There are thousands of unionists in this country who are deeply grateful for the policy of the Liberal Party in endeavouring to bring some sanity- 
I do not mind about gallup polls. I am talking about what the people on the shop floor feel when somebody puts them out of a job. I know perfectly well that this legislation is well intended. It may not succeed in what we want it to do but at least it goes part of the way to asking the moderate, sensible union leaders to realise that the contracts Australia makes overseas shall be honoured; if there is a union contract requiring something to be done, that contract should be subject to the law. If honourable members and unions want to be outside the law, then I am sorry, but there is no help and no hope for them. Minister, I believe that what we are trying to do in our policy is logical. It is correct and it is understood by the rank and file as being fair. Therefore I support the Bill, but I have great reservations concerning the penalty clauses in the original Act. 
-by leave-I do not want to detract from the fact that the House is adjourning for a recess which includes the seven remaining days of November, the whole of December and January, and for 19 days out of February. I do not think we should feel that that is not a good idea. But, unfortunately, events in the world outside will be continuing. At present, the Iran Government is tottering; the Lebanon is in chaos; and Central Africa is in great trouble. As we look around the world, we are beginning to wonder why this Parliament has not had a major debate on foreign affairs this session. Therefore, I ask the Government: Should the United Nations decide to invite this Government to send Australian forces during the parliamentary recess into the Pacific, the Persian Gulf, perhaps into Zambia or elsewhere, will the Government first call the Parliament together. I hope that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and you,  Mr Speaker,  will consider this matter seriously. I would not be prepared to permit Australian forces to be committed to the United Nations without a full debate first being held in this House. 
I do not in any way detract from the Christmas spirit that is with us. We have our international responsibilities. I ask the Leader of the House to give an undertaking before we pass this motion to honourable members on both sides of the House that, if the United Nations SecretaryGeneral requires the presence of Australian armed forces to assist the United Nations, much as we would approve of such action, the Parliament should be recalled and the debate should take place before such action is agreed to. In that spirit, I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  very much. I have noticed that your procession is going well. I hope that parliamentary processions will continue. I hope that everybody will enjoy another happy new year. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That this House invites the Federal Government in cooperation with the Premiers and the parliaments of the States to appoint a royal commission to examine the employer organisations, the trade unions and the wages and award systems in Australia and make recommendations in the national interest. 
-I do not dispute the situation in which the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  finds his young people. It is certainly a very serious situation. 
Those of us who have seats in industrial areas are quite aware of the problems involved. We are deeply concerned about the young third and fourth formers who have not suceeded either at school or afterwards and who have not found apprenticeships or jobs. We feel theirs is a quite serious situation. That is why the Government set up the Community Youth Support Scheme. I do not know whether the honourable member has any projects under that scheme in his area. I should have thought that he would have mentioned them. I should have thought that the honourable member would have applauded all those in his area who assisted. I should have thought that the honourable member would have said that all the people in his own area who helped with the youth schemes are to be commended. But no; he fell into the trap of trying to make this tragedy a political gain. 
Yes. May I add that a member of the Labor Party in my area said to me - 

Are you sitting in your seat or are you just lying back lolling and yelling at me? Are you in your seat or not? 
Is the honourable member in his seat? Can he yell at me? 
I must say that the member of the Labor Party who talked to me said that he was deeply concerned with this problem and thought that there was absolutely no political advantage to be gained by the sorts of speeches that we heard this afternoon from the Opposition front bench, and regrettably, not by the honourable member for Sydney but by the honourable member for Cunningham. 
I should have thought that the honourable member would have realised by now that for the last year I have been working slowly and patiently to achieve a national youth community scheme. I should have thought that after having talked to  Mr Nolan  and other members of the Trade's Hall Council in the city of Melbourne the honourable member might have heard down the grapevine that there are people on this side of the House who are also concerned with the problem. I am sure that the honourable member is concerned and I am certain that he will have listened to the speech of the  president  of his own party who pointed out that it was of no use blaming the technological revolution. Apparently, he has not heard the speech of a former  President  of the Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  who also said that he could not at this moment in time suggest a major scheme to resolve the whole unemployment situation. The honourable member would do far better to listen to the people in his own party, the scholars and the leaders, before coming into this House and making ridiculous assertions. 
-The only way the honourable member can argue is by yelling at me. If he would just listen he would know a huie bit more. At this moment the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is going to consult the youth organisations in this country to see whether it is  possible - 
-Obviously he wants to take up my time,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am very glad to say that the Minister is now working on a national youth community service scheme for Australia. He has the help of very many people from the Opposition. He understands the situation. I think that the nation would do well to say to itself: 'Those who play politics with the unfortunate young people condemn themselves'. I support the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs in his genuine efforts to assist young people to establish a national youth community service scheme for all Australians both at home and abroad. The Minister should be helped to solved this problem. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your guidance because of a remark made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  during his speech. He said that in private discussions, honourable members on this side had expressed to him privately their dissatisfaction with the Prime Minister. I would have thought that private discussions between honourable members were not normally raised in this House. I understood that under the rules of this House one did not in the course of debate challenge honourable members on the opposite side of the House about the subject of private discussions because that is the basis of all parliamentary discussion and honour. It was a remark - 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that the recent new agreement signed between the Government and General Motors-Holden's Ltd for the manufacture of an international four-cylinder engine has been welcomed by Australians as an export winner? Will he inform the House now what progress he has made in explaining that agreement to motor component manufacturers? Has he been able to allay the anxieties of these companies, including companies in my electorate such as the Torrington Bearing Company, and, no doubt, other  companies in other honourable members' electorates? 

 -Yesterday, Mr Speaker, I raised a point of order because I got rather hot under the collar when the Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  referred in his speech to private discussions that he had with honourable members; and he used those private discussions to taunt us. You,  Mr Speaker,  and many honourable members obviously heard what he said. I realise that  Hansard  reporters often experience difficulties because of the noise level in the chamber, but I have searched  Hansard  very carefully today for this reference and I cannot find it.  Mr Speaker,  before any innuendos are made, would you please ask the  Hansard  staff to check the record to see whether those remarks were made or whether I was wrong? 
I am thankful that in the area of Dandenong from which I come, the editors of all our newspapers take an impartial view of developments in the area. During the parliamentary recess like other honourable members I enjoyed visiting the industries, schools, hospitals and homes of many people in my electorate. Naturally, like anybody else, I discovered certain matters that could be dealt with by ordinary administration. But there are now two matters that I want to bring to the attention of the House and of the Government. The first is youth employment and the second is the indexation of age pensions. 
With regard to employment I congratulate the Dandenong Commonwealth Employment Service, which, in the last quarter of 1978, placed a record number of people in jobs; the highest number in Victoria. I also congratulate the Government on the recent figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics which show that in Australia we have a record number of people in civilian employment, namely, 6,097,500. That is a record for civilian employment in this country. Nevertheless, due to technical change and a large number of people entering the work force, the situation for the inexperienced school leaver is becoming even more serious and endorses the paper which I wrote for the Government concerning a national youth community service scheme. I called the paper 'Serve Australia'. However I must say that four Community Youth Support schemes in my electorate are making good progress thanks to their project officers and to the community support which, they receive. We were sorry to hear of the retirement of Councillor  Mrs Jan  Wilson, who has done excellent work in helping young girls in typing and office procedure. I am glad to see that she is now going to a paid appointment as the Australian Labor Party organiser for the area of Holt. 
Government members- Oh! 
-Well, why not? She is a distinguished councillor who is allowed to take any employment she wants. I am very concerned about a report that I have received from the Principal of Marralinga Primary School,  Mr MacKenzie  and the Vice-Principal,  Mr Riorden  On 27 September last year the school decided to take on a young person under the National Employment and Training scheme, 16 year old Ken Sutton of 3 Delos Court, Endeavour Hills. The Federal Government contributed $47 and the school paid $33 making a total of $80. He was under the instruction of another Vice-Principal,  Mr Garthside  who holds a diploma in agriculture. On 23 January 1979 this young man received notice from the CES to terminate his work. He is now back on the unemployment benefit of $5 1 a week. Today I called on the Ministers' staff to ask whether such a scheme makes economic sense for the country. Here was a young person under 16 years of age who was receiving proper supervision. What could have been better? It occurs to me that in building up the national youth community service scheme much more attention should be paid to the part the schools can play in it. I therefore ask the Minister whether he will kindly look into this problem. How many other Ken Suttons are there throughout Australia wasting their time on our money who were formerly employed under the NEAT scheme but have now been withdrawn. This situation is quite ridiculous. 
Finally, I am deeply distressed at the problem facing the age pensioners. I expect and trust that the Government will take careful consideration of the situation that has arisen and make sure that in the coming Budget these people are removed once again from the political forum, that their pensions are indexed every six months and that an adjustment will be made to take into account the four per cent rise in the cost of living index in December 1978. As far as I am concerned, thanks to the policy of the Government and thanks to the new motor policy announced for General Motors-Holden's Ltd, anybody who seriously wants a job and is prepared to take it and make a start can do well. Unfortunately a number of people are not prepared to take that chance. On the other hand there are some people who are finding great difficulty in getting a start. I am thankful to say that of the major companies that I have visited Email Ltd has taken on people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  - 
I am sorry to start my speech amidst such a furore. The honourable member for Batman, after all, did say one or two very provocative things. For example, he does not understand the present foreign policy of the United States. If he had carefully read the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  he could not have possibly made a speech of the sort that he did. He must know perfectly well that everybody associated with foreign affairs in this country expressed their profound regret about China's sudden action of punishing a next door neighbour. It is perfectly ridiculous to pretend that neither this government nor the United States government expressed deep concern that one country should punish another. I do not know how the honourable member for Batman came to that conclusion. 
I am not going to argue with him now. He has had his chance to debate this subject. I will go on. I tura now to an interjection by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  about the Paracel Islands or the Spratly Islands. He questioned whether China had any legality to occupy those islands. From my knowledge of history, the islands of the South China Sea were under the control of the emperors- even the last empress- of China and the only reason those islands were under the control of Vietnam was due to the treaties drawn up by France in 1802. 1 am sorry that the honourable member for Hunter is not here but I will make further inquiries later. Let me get on with what we are really debating. On many occasions last year honourable members asked for a foreign affairs debate. Some of us were disappointed that it was not possible. On the last day of the session last year I recall that I asked the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and  Mr Speaker  to recall the Parliament if Australian troops were to be committed overseas, or if the situation in Iran became worse, or if the events in Indo-China worsened. Now we have all these problems on top of us. 
I believe the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Foreign Minister ought to be congratulated for ensuring that this foreign affairs debate is taking place now. I think it is not unfair too for some of us to remember those who work for the Australian foreign service in the embassies abroad and to express our thanks to them. Their influence in international affairs is much greater than the average Australian believes. Having visited the Australian Police Force in Cyprus and having met some members of the Australian peace keeping units in Ismailia and in the Suez Canal area, one can be certain that wherever there is an Australian embassy or an Australian peacekeeping force they are playing what I consider to be a first class international role on behalf of this country. 
This debate is designed entirely to draw the attention of this nation to world affairs, and in particular to the war in South East Asia. Nobody can pretend that we have not been through a crisis parallel to that in Cuba. It was certainly the most tense crisis the nation has faced since 1962. I express no regret that I cabled the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations- I am certain others did also- suggesting that if the United Nations became deadlocked, it was his duty to go to Hanoi and to Peking and ask, directly, for a ceasefire and the commencement of peace negotiations. Indeed, we were certainly on the edge of World War III. I believe we must begin to look at some of the major events that have taken place and try to put them in perspective. I want to place on record my personal thanks to the officials in the embassies of China, the Soviet Union, the United States and France from whom I sought advice during the recent conflict in South East Asia. 
Tonight I want to express my own views because I have been actively involved in foreign affairs since the first Parliamentary mission to China in 1955, through the Suez crisis, through Aden, and through the problems we have experienced since then. I believe that we now have to look carefully at the major events in the Far East which have changed world history. Once we get those into perspective we can see how world affairs are moving and why this action occurred in South East Asia. The first major event that changed world history in the Far East was the complete disruption of the Soviet-China communist bloc which existed right through until the early 1960s. Then there was the rise of the industrial power of Japan, the friendship treaty signed last year between China and Japan, and, in addition, the discovery of the oil field in the Gulf of Po-Ai. The next events which precipitated the crises which we have experienced were the United States' withdrawal from Vietnam and, on the other hand, her recognition of the People's Republic of China after 30 years. Finally, there was the sudden newfound interest of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in the Pacific and Indian Oceans. At one time one might have said that the Soviet Union possessed an overwhelming armed force in its conventional troops and the United States possessed an overwhelming capacity to move by sea, that one was a sea power and the other a land power. Anybody who has read the recent strategic studies will appreciate that the Soviet Union has now moved into a state of parity with the United States in both offensive and defensive weapons. Indeed, in both spheres she is certainly now in a state of parity with the United States. Therefore it is absolutely correct, given the damage that can be done by missiles in the event of a misunderstanding, that the United States and the Soviet Union should make the SALT agreement their priority above everything else. 
I think that our problems have arisen through mistakes made in foreign policy. I believe that the United States has now recognised certain underlying mistakes that have occurred in past years. There is absolutely no doubt, for example, that the Middle East was confused by the foreign policy of the United States. It was difficult for the United States to understand that it was not possible to appear all the time to be arming Israel and at the same time asking the Arab states to provide the United States with all the oil she required. That was a fundamental mistake. Secondly, she did not quite understand that to continue to be antagonistic towards China was not in any way helping her policy in the Far East. All that the Soviet Union had to do, quite succinctly, was to stand by and wait for the effect of these mistakes in international affairs to manifest itself. 
The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  gave a clear description of the situation in Iran. I think that his statements about Iran were correct. I visited Iran in 1964 and the rule of the hundred families was in question even then. I would have thought that the Western nations would realise by now that treaties like the Baghdad pact and that of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation and the arming of these countries to the teeth is now completely at an end. I am most anxious to look at the new foreign policy which the United States has adopted and, in particular, at the most recent statements of  President  Carter. I think that his summing up of the situation of the Western world and its ideas should be made known. He said: 
We need to resist two temptations: to see all changes as inevitably against the interests of the United States, as kind of a loss for ' us ' or a victory for ' them '- 
Further on he said: 
For us in the United States, change itself is not the enemy. Our concern is twofold. We must work to dampen conflict, to maintain peace, and we must make clear that it is dangerous for outside powers to try to exploit for their own selfish benefits this inevitable turmoil. 
I wish to incorporate President Carter's speech in  Hansard  as it gives a fundamental reappraisal of United States foreign policy. I seek leave to incorporate the speech in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The speech read as follows- 

Let us look now at what has happened in Vietnam. I do not think there is any real dispute now. I believe that the situation there has come about because of the claims by Ho Chi Minn that Vietnam was entitled by ancient rites to rule Laos and Kampuchea. It was certainly spelt out in communist speeches and it was certainly well understood that this was the ultimate objective of Vietnam. On the other hand when I visited China as the guest of the People's Republic, a visit for which I am grateful, it was quite clear that the Chinese, for their part, could not countenance the existence of a bloc of Soviet organised states on their southern borders. I am sorry to be simplistic, but I think the conflict has been as simple as that. They thought that when Vietnam signed the agreement with the Soviet Union Vietnam took advantage of the agreement and immediately went into Kampuchea. However I am not too certain that the Soviet Union would have encouraged Vietnam to do anything of the sort. I agree with the people on the Opposition benches who say that our main desire is to be certain that Vietnam can again reassert her independence. Of course one can see that problems have arisen. If the objective of the foreign policy of China is to make certain that Laos and Kampuchea are free and the objective of the foreign policy of Vietnam is to hold both Kampuchea and Laos we will be in serious difficulty for many years to come. Perhaps Prince Sihanouk would be one of the answers, if he could be persuaded by both sides to do so, to bringing peace to Kampuchea. 
I do not intend to talk tonight about the situation in the Middle East as there is not enough time for me to do so. Everybody understands that the whole free world has always drawn oil from that area and that the United States will have to protect her interests. We cannot do without oil from the Middle East. As far as our nation is concerned, the time has come when we must really begin to think far more about our own foreign policy. We must certainly begin to see that more people go to schools and universities in our neighbouring countries. We must learn that their customs are interesting. We must learn to expect people from those states to visit us more often. We must not presume that Australia is anchored just off Holyhead and has been there for two centuries and will be there forever. We are in the Far East. We should look forward to our future in the Far East. We must have new courage and new spirit. I agree with the author of the hymn: 
Oh, may this land Australia, 
Thy dominion be. 
Bless her people with righteousness, 
From east to western sea. 
If we make a start with some form of spiritual appraisal and gain knowledge of the world in which we live by making a serious effort to understand our neighbours to the north we will do ourselves a lot of good. The price of liberty is eternal vigilance. That means that in all our efforts in foreign affairs we must be certain that we understand. We cannot understand without learning. We must have good knowledge of what is going on. I therefore support what  Mr Speaker  said this week in his address to the Royal Women's Hospital in Melbourne. I like one part of it in particular. It reads: 
People make nations. And looking at Australia's people, our youth, our migrants, I cannot understand anybody who is fearful of the future. 
Indeed, Australia has, and stands for, a very great future. She must now take the greatest possible care in analysing her relations with Indonesia. If she makes a mistake there I guarantee not that she will survive it. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services. It concerns extraordinary rumours this morning that the Jubilee Trust Fund is having problems. Will the Minister inform the House - 
I did not particularly wish to make any remarks in this debate. I felt that the matter was one on which I could exercise my judgment, having consulted all those whom I have seen. I think the debate in the House has been a long one. I think most honourable members fully understand their responsibilities and the vote which they wish to cast. Therefore I do not vote for the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and I do not vote against it. I will be supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon). 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce received the most recent statistical information confirming the major industrial production and expansion in the motor engineering, glass and chemical industries in the city of Dandenong, thanks to the good policy of the Liberal Government? Is it also correct that Perkins Engines Australia Pty Ltd is obliged to pay a 25 per cent duty on all imported 4-cylinder car diesel engines? In view of the need for fuel economy will the Minister inform the House whether the Government is yet in a position to reduce or cancel this duty which is impeding the progress of this company? Before the Minister 

 Questions Without Notice answers I am sure that he would like to know that the Dandenong Australia Day Award Students are with us here. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
How many strikes were reported to his Department during 1977-78 and on how many occasions did the Conciliation and Arbitration Commissioner in the States call for a secret ballot as provided for in the Federal legislation. 
I believe that this motion proposed by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  is of fundamental importance to the presence of honourable members in this chamber. The purpose of legislation committees, which have been set up following the discussions of the Committee on which I serve, is an ancillary one. Their purpose is to help the passage of Bills through this House and to assist the forms of this House. Let us be quite clear about the fact that if committees assisting in the consideration of legislation are allowed to sit at the same time as this House is sitting, there is no way in which I will ever be absent from a vote in this House, or be absent from the proceedings of this House, if my presence is required here. Therefore, if there is going to be a collision in relation to a member's duties- his duty to a legislation committee deliberating on a Bill in a place other than this chamber and his duty to this House- then clearly proper arrangements have to be made between the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to avoid honourable members being put in an extremely difficult position. They would be subject to criticism from their constituents because they were not in the House but attending a committee meeting authorised by the House when an issue, such as atomic energy or whatever it may be, was being discussed in this House. I have stated my point, which I think is a fundamental one. 
I am very grateful to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I was interested in the speech he made. He may well know that there are people on this side of the House who have been up to and into Arnhem Land and have also spent considerable time in examining the troubles and difficulties which the Aboriginal people have and indeed are going through. It is a serious transitory problem. It is all very well for us balanda to start telling the Aboriginal people what they should do. They are just as worried dealing with this Government as they were when dealing with the former Labor Government. The honourable member for Wills had a great record of service. He talked about sacred land, and he knows that he is right. All I ask of honourable members opposite, is that they do not exaggerate or exacerbate the very serious problem in the Northern Territory, a problem on which our consciences are deeply disturbed both in our homes and in our world affairs before the United Nations. 
The speech made last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  could hardly be accepted even in christian charity as the right way to look upon the problem. I do not think that the Aborigines will think very much of us and very much of our politics if we start playing any further with their anguish, sorrow and distress. I think it is time that this nation had a very serious think about what it should be doing. If these mineral rights are to be taxed and the Aboriginal people are to suffer some deprivation in not receiving enough money for their social work, schools or anything else they require, then of course it is a matter for regret. However, I would think that to put a proposition to give them more money - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Holt will resume his seat. The time being 10.15 p.m., the time allotted for all stages of the Bill has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that his recent visit to the Philippines and Indonesia, in particular his visit to President Suharto, was well received and understood in the national Press? Has he any information or any statements to make to this House so that we could know more about the discussions which he had concerning refugees from Vietnam? 
I want tonight to deal with something much closer to our homes and our families than the wider field that has just been discussed. If possible, this debate should be reserved for matters that concern electorates. The number of instances of breakdown in family life, of people suddenly, for some unknown reason, finding themselves thrown out of a home, of the collapse of family life, or of some such serious incident occurring in households, is now on the increase. Indeed, it is on a scale that has never been known before. We are supposed to live in a society which is infinitely prosperous, in which human relations are better understood than ever before, but my experience has been that our social services are not yet geared to deal with the tragedies that occur following family breakdown; that we do not know quite how to handle that situation. 
For example, only a week ago a local newspaper published a photograph of a boy aged 13 who had nowhere to go. He had been found by a police officer sleeping out, and did not know what to do. There had been an upset in his household and he had virtually run away. I am very worried as to whether our welfare organisations are capable of handling the situation that we face. We all accept that the Uniting Church and the Catholic Church- indeed all the churches in our electorates- do their very best to assist broken families; but when it comes down to employing permanently people who can help, to finding a refuge for these people, or to these people being told what they should do in these circumstances, I am sorry to say that members of our society still seem to say: 'Well, it is hard luck for them; it does not happen in my family'. I am sorry that I cannot accept that. Both the church community and the welfare authorities in my area have said that there seems to be some misunderstanding as to who is responsible for action in this field. Does responsibility lie with the governments of Victoria or New South Wales, or is the responsibility in such tragic circumstance that of the Federal Government? As long as this malaise occurs I believe that those who work in the welfare field will be at a disadvantage. 
Therefore, I would recommend to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that upon the agenda of the forthcoming Premiers Conference there shall be placed without fail, at my request and that of this Parliament, an item requiring that a decision be taken as to who is in fact responsible for the support and funding of family welfare organisations in the States. Until this is done some people will say that the responsibility to support family welfare lies with the Federal Government. Other people will say that the responsibility to assist these organisations lies with the State Government. I am sorry that as a Liberal I simply cannot allow the situation to go on any further. Therefore, I call upon the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom),  who is at the table, to take note of my speech tonight and communicate to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premiers that I am not prepared to countenance a situation in which there is no proper support, either State or Federal, where there has been a family breakdown because the State and Federal authorities are quarrelling amongst themselves about who is primarily responsible. I hope this matter is put right without any further delay. 
I am glad that the members of the Australian Labor Party have taken their stand on this Bill. I will inform all those public servants who are about 55 years of age and who have been asking especially for provisions to enable them to retire of the position. They have written to me and said that they want this Bill passed. I will now be telling them that the Labor Party completely opposes it. I am extremely surprised that the Opposition should take this attitude in view of the number of public servants who have asked for this Bill to be passed because they believe that it will benefit and help them. The Labor Party has taken its point of view at its own peril. The people now know where the Opposition stands on this matter. 
-Is the Treasurer aware that his mini-Budget has been well understood? 
It could not be understood by the Opposition. Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to the financial strain and anxiety caused to families in the lower income tax paying ranges concerning the increase in hospital, medical, dental and other family charges? Will he therefore consider their situation as well as those on the age pension who require six-monthly indexation when he prepares the Budget? 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the service that Radio Australia gives to our neighbouring countries? Is he aware that when I visited at least nine of those countries, I found that Radio Australia was considered to be one of the most valuable and most useful ways by which the views of this country are expressed abroad? Will the Minister, therefore, take all necessary steps to see that Radio Australia is given a higher signal and more power so that our views can be well heard in world affairs? 
-I give notice that on Thursday, 30 August I shall move: 
That this House, mindful of the principles and philosophy of the Liberal Party to assist those in need, is anxious to protect the family and single people in the lower income groups from the worry of bills and charges for medical or hospital treatment due to illness or an accident, and therefore requests the Minister for Health to advise the medical profession that a confidential letter from a local justice of the peace, minister of religion, industrial chaplain or an officer of the Citizens Advice Bureau, Social Security or Welfare or Probation, in relation to any patient, shall entitle that medical practitioner to accept the patient as 'disadvantaged' and refer any charges to the Commonwealth for payment. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns). 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to a report that was circulated to all members concerning procedures in this House. Part of the report states: 
There is clear evidence that the House today is not seen by the public or, indeed, by members themselves to be an effective monitor of executive activities; nor is it. 
The proceedings in this House today have absolutely amazed me as a back bencher. 
As a private member and as a back bencher. The whole of today's proceedings have been governed by a private agreement between the Executive and the Leader of the Opposition. 
There was a private agreement that statements would be made, that a shadow Minister would reply and that that would end the proceedings of a particular matter of great public importance. 
-That is absolutely correct in relation to what happened the other day. 
If the honourable member will bear with me, he will find that I am trying to defend the rights of the back benchers in this House. I am trying to make this Parliament more into a debating forum for the nation rather than into an organised charade between the two front benches. 
If I may, I shall continue my earlier remarks. In giving evidence before a House of Commons committee of inquiry about the committee procedure, Lord Glenamara said:   . . The balance of advantage between Parliament and Government in the day-to-day working of the Constitution is now weighted in favour of the Government to a degree which arouses widespread anxiety and is inimical to the proper working of our parliamentary democracy. 
That is the position in Great Britain. Let me deal with how the Committee stage works in this place. Is there a Committee stage? Legislation is ruffled through this place. It is all over in a few seconds. Let us be frank; there is really no Committee stage. Proper consideration is not given to any Bill in the Committee stage. Why do I say this? The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and I were members of a committee which inquired into the parliamentary committee system. It involved a good deal of time, a good deal of money and a lot of effort. We visited the parliaments of Canada, Britain and the United States. A report was presented to this House but that report has not been debated. Why? Because the Executive does not want us to have a Committee stage debate. 
It was then decided to have some form of judicial committee system. Legislation committees did sit during the last session. One would have hoped that all the problems surrounding legislation would have been solved at those committee meetings, but were they? How many new amendments were brought in at the third reading stage of legislation? I can remember at least nine new clauses being introduced. What a shambles that committee procedure was! This House cannot go on in this way. One day the nation and the people will find out what is happening and they will ask what we are doing in the Committee stage of the consideration of legislation. They will ask what amendments we are considering. We will be asked whether there are any committees of consequence. A committee on expenditure is supposed to exist. The committee on expenditure is a myth. Those of us who were interested asked public servants and those who were involved with committees about the committee system. The whole situation is in a state of utter confusion. 
It is time that the back bench members of this place were given a go. The private members of this place are just as important as any of the members of the front bench. The  Speaker  is duty bound to protect every member and to give consideration to the proposals of every member whether he is on the front bench or on the back benches. 
What do Opposition members get by way of time in which to argue their points of view? They get no time at all. Why is a day not set aside for Opposition members so that they can put forward suggestions and examine any Bill over the whole of a day? What amount of time are they given? At present they are able to raise matters of public importance. This is a stunted, runted procedure. These discussions are supposed to be about emergency situations which any private member can bring before the attention of the House. They are supposed to be matters of emergency and of national importance. How many of them have been brought forward by back bench members? I brought forward one such matter but generally the bringing forward of these matters for discussion is restricted to members on the two front benches. What sort of a debate is such a discussion? It is not a debate at all. How many matters of public importance have been brought forward by honourable members on the back benches? 
I brought forward one but such a debate is generally conducted between the two front benches, and what sort of debate is that? It is not a debate at all. It is a slanging match usually. I am sorry, I must be polite. It is a contested debate between the two front benches for a short time with no conclusion, no vote. The matter is just over. Really there is supposed to be a committee looking into our Standing Orders and our procedures. Has that committee made any suggestions during the life of this Parliament or of the previous Parliament for the reform of any procedures in this House? I will give the answer: It is no. Therefore, unless this House can pull itself together the people of Australia will really begin to ask why we are being paid, what we are doing and why we are not debating properly the main issues that affect the nation. It is high time every honourable member got down to the job. 
-This evening I want to discuss for a few moments the question of atomic energy and the production of uranium in Australia. In 1947 the Labour Party of Great Britain first used atomic uranium to explode the first bomb. It was the Labour Party in the United Kingdom that first got itself involved in the use of uranium by way of a bomb. That decision was taken by the Labour Party in the United Kingdom and it was probably one with which the nation was quite agreeable at that time. We are now going into an era where, at the present moment, the Labor Party in Australia is still completely opposed to the mining of uranium. This is an extraordinary troglodyte view to take in today's world. 
It is quite puzzling that a political party should be opposed to the mining of uranium in this country and should be opposed to its use for peaceful purposes overseas. It is quite incredible also that it should even consider it to be a part of its policy. Honourable members might well ask why I say that. It is because the use of nuclear reactors throughout the world is now well established. For example, at present in the Soviet 
Union there are at least seven reactors in operation. The generation of electrical power in the Soviet Union doubles each decade. The Soviet Union has said that it wants to reserve and save its fuel and other forms of energy. For that purpose it has built a large number of atomic power reactors. These enterprises are now well under way and have been well established. They are now a major source of electrical power in the Soviet Union. 
The Soviet Union is now proposing to construct nuclear stations of two to 6 million kilowatts each in the following areas: Leningrad, Ignalinskaya, Kursk, Smolensk, South Ukrainian, Kalinin and Rovno. Each of the reactors will be able to provide one million to l.S million kilowatts. The whole of its nuclear program is based on the idea that it will use the fast reactor breeder and one has been built only 75 miles out of Stalingrad. The more one thinks about the Labor Party's opposition to Australia 's selling of nuclear yellowcake and nuclear materials to the world the more one is shown that the minds of Opposition members are in a troglodyte era that has long passed. Like their philosophy, their minds are based in 1900 and 1921. They have never caught up with either economic events or world power of today. 
What should Australia do? Firstly, she has the production of uranium; secondly, she has the possibility of enrichment; and thirdly, because of Maralinga, she has the possibility to consider whether we should take back all the enriched uranium which we send abroad, to bring it back to this country for recycling. For goodness sake, here is the most fantastic opportunity for this country to be engaged in the most major saving of power that is known in the world today: the production of uranium, the enrichment, and eventually the dealing with and recycling of the rods that are thrown out of uranium reactors throughout the world. It is absolutely essential that this country comes to its senses and once and for all discards the outmoded attitudes of the Opposition concerning uranium. If we in this country are going to pay any more attention to the cries which the Opposition make concerning uranium we will only put this nation 25 years behind in a new science. All I want to say tonight is something quite simple. We should be able to mine, enrich and look after all the uranium throw-outs of the world - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The House will be sorry to hear that an Australian is now lying seriously ill in a hospital in Afghanistan, the bus on which he was travelling having been involved in an ambush in that country. Tonight I want to draw this matter to the attention of the House and to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to make certain that no more Australians attempt to travel- cheaply, of course- on an overland journey on a bus through Afghanistan at present. Six Germans, a Turk and a Finn have lost their lives in and around Kabul during the last three weeks. Having visited Kabul in the recess I can say to the House that many extremely brave Australians are working for overseas companies and for the United Nations in this and other parts of the world. We never thank them. In a country such as Afghanistan where we do not have an Australian embassy I think it is the duty of the Foreign Minister to get in touch with a friendly embassy and make certain that Australian nationals, their wives and children are withdrawn. 
The situation in Afghanistan goes from bad to worse. As we all know, the Soviet Union is now supplying 3,000 advisers, but even Soviet civilians have been involved in the fighting and even killed. We realise that the Afghanistan army and air force have been trained by the Soviet Union. We recognise too that because of the close proximity of Afghanistan to the Soviet Union, the Soviet Union is bound to be at least sensitive to the government in Afghanistan. The present  President, Mr Taraki  has adopted communist policies. I am not prepared to say whether they are good or bad policies, but they have thoroughly antagonised the Afghan people. There has been only one great conqueror of Afghanistan and that was Alexander the Great. The British suffered a tremendous reversal in the retreat to Kandahar and almost everybody knows that certain areas of Afghanistan are in permanent turmoil. 
I ask the Afghan Government and especially its Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs to make certain that any Australian or European citizen who wishes to leave Afghanistan will be allowed to do so. I am sorry to say that I can see no hope for the situation. There is now a permanent insurrection. As long as the army remains loyal to the present Government and does not rebel, the present Government will stay in power. It is with great regret that a great and beautiful country like Afghanistan has brought itself to this problem. As the Pakistani Government pointed out, it is no use the Afghan Government blaming its neighbours for the very policies which it has adopted and the very situation which it has created. If the present Afghan Government cannot manage the situation it will have to find somebody else who can run the country peacefully and better for everybody in Afghanistan. We must all face the fact that Afghanistan lies in a very important position in the world. We hope that it will long remain a non-aligned nation working for peace and goodwill with her neighbours. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. It is not a Dorothy Dix question. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the increasing number of 75-foot long vehicles carrying 20,000 litres of liquefied petroleum gas which are now passing through our main cities, in particular through the main shopping centre of Dandenong? In view of a minor accident in Dandenong and in view of the disaster that happened in Spain last year, what steps has he taken to authorise and order city bypass safety routing? What discussions has he had with the State transport ministers on this matter, which involves road safety and public safety? 
-Let anyone should gain the impression that the Opposition is the sole and only party of reform, I think I should point out that there is a large number of private members on this side of the House who are just as interested and active as the Opposition in examining government expenditure and in ensuring that the Executive does not exceed itself. That is the reason why, about a fortnight ago, I made rather a violent speech during the adjournment debate pressing for reforms of this nature. The framework of these committees is sensible. I hope that their establishent will receive the full support of the House. It is only charitable that I should say to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that those private members on this side of the House who have been actively involved in seeking reforms of this sort are grateful. I assure the House that we will play a full part in the operation of these committees. 
I am just trying to get back to the actual clause. What this operation is all about is something perfectly simple. It is whether the Organisation shall have the right, at its discretion, after a warrant has been issued when it comes to telephone tapping, to make a report on a situation which it thinks is correct and justifiable. Therefore, I agree with my friend, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  that there is an element of trust involved in this, and this Committee has to decide this evening whether it is going to insist on not putting in 'unlawful'. That in itself would not succeed. It would put another onus upon those who have to do the reporting work. They would then have to consider whether they were going to make a report because they thought that the activity was unlawful. 
I do not think that an organisation set up to look after the affairs of our country can operate within that parameter. I understand my friend 's objections, but I must come down in support of my friend on this side of the chamber- the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton).  I do not want the Opposition to think that we are always concerned with the problems of just the trade unions or the very extreme elements in the trade unions. We are not. We are sometimes involved in a situation in which the Defence Act might be called into operation and the Services called upon to aid the civil power. In those cases, if somebody obstructs the forces called to aid the civil power, surely a report can be made upon the person who is doing the obstructing. 
The honourable member has made his speech and has given his views. I am sure that we paid attention to them. Surely he must show us the courtesy of allowing us to explain our views. I have done so. The more one thinks about it, the more one has sympathy with the point made by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  and my friend the honourable member for Mackellar, that to put in the word 'unlawful' would make the situation even more difficult. Therefore, the Committee would be very well advised to leave out the word unlawful'. 
-Faintly over the air this evening there will be the voice of Australia- Radio Australia. This most successful station has had an outstandingly triumphant record over the last few months. I think the House should take note of its success. After all, if we are appealing to the Third World what better medium could we use other than Radio Australia? When the Embassy in Peking opened 250,000 letters were received in a month. That is a staggering number of letters. It means that throughout the Far East, besides listening to the booming voices coming from the United States and the Soviet Union, at last the voice of Australia is being carried to our neighbours and at last what is going on in Australia is clearly of interest to our neighbours. Australia is not only valuable to those who are learning English and want to know about Australia but also it is essential to our foreign missions. It helps to create in the minds of listeners an opinion of Australia. It helps people to understand the Australian way of life. It helps people to understand what we in Australia do. 
In fact, Radio Australia is one of Australia's greatest successes. From Indonesia alone 14,871 letters are received every month. Surely the Government must now respond to the question I raised on 2 1 August in which I called upon the Government to take further steps to make quite sure that the output of our station became a better and more audible signal throughout the entire Far East. Therefore this evening I wish to draw the attention of the House to the work of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in this field and at the same time to suggest that if we are to be a good neighbour in the Far East region it is essential that our neighours understand us and we understand them. 
I feel certain that the House will encourage the Government and the ABC to ensure that mail from the listeners sent to the ABC is properly replied to. We should build up not only our radio service but also our letter reply service. It is with great pleasure this evening that I congratulate the ABC and Radio Australia. I look forward to the Government's taking a much more active part in helping the ABC and Radio Australia if we are faithfully to pursue our interest in the Third World because the Third World is certainly interested in us. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am glad that we have now returned to a consideration of the Budget. I will not today take part in a snarling contest with  Her  Majesty's Opposition. I do not think that is getting the country anywhere and I cannot see how it can possibly be understood to be a sensible way in which to approach the situation. The Budget that Parliament has before it has been well received. Already a verdict has been passed upon it. I refer to the election which took place in South Australia. I cannot see any point in going on about the Budget itself at the present time. There are a number of things in the Budget that affect people in my own electorate. Those people are the lower paid groups on the tax scale, those who are disadvantaged and the disadvantaged who will not seek prescriptions because they have no means of paying for those prescriptions. It is in these spheres that Liberal Party backbenchers are now trying to work out, with the help of the Government, some alleviation for these groups of people. In addition there are also the senior people who are on retired pensions. Although the Budget was the only Budget that could have been produced in the circumstances I would have thought that there are a number of groups of people in this country to whom we must show even more care. The Government looks forward to doing what it can in the next three months to readjust the taxation system to take care of those who have to bear the burden in the lower income groups. 
No speech on the Budget would be complete without reference to the unemployed youth. There is nothing more distressing than this fact, and that was why last year, with the help of my  friends and others, I wrote the paper  Serve Australia.  This was an effort to look at the problem of youth employment. There have been a number of other efforts to examine youth employment, particularly the recent release of a committee which worked for the Catholic bishops. I also agree with Professor Karmel. I wonder whether the people we are dealing with in this age group should in fact be paid the dole at all. Is it not our duty to make certain that they have some form of training? Am I to believe that there is not sufficient work both here and overseas for these young people? I am sorry; I cannot accept that situation. I hope that members on both sides of the House, including those who are connected with education and those who deal with the Community Youth Support Scheme and those who deal with apprenticeship, will try again to see whether this country, learning from the lessons of Europe and other countries, will devise a better scheme to look after young people who, for one reason or another, are unable to get employment. 
In my own electorate I have four CYSS programs all working and great credit goes to those who operate them. One program deals with girls who cannot get a job and who are given office training. The rate of replacement of those girls in industry has been substantial and successful. A youth resources centre, where young people can learn carpentry, metal work and things which concern engineering, has been successful in placing in various companies in the Holt electorate young people who have not had a job. It is therefore right that I thank the industrialists who have taken the trouble to take on these young people who, for one reason or another, were unfortunate on leaving school. In Airlie Street there are a group of people who are trying to assist the young who have not had or who have lost the art of reading, writing, arithmetic and job application. That is a very interesting and valuable program. The fourth one, at Grassmere in Doveton, concerns the teaching and the assisting of young people who have not had a sufficient education at school. Only today I gave the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  a request from  Mr Andrew  Davis that the Government assist in this youth education scheme to take place at the Grassmere Centre. I am fortunate that the majority of people in my electorate, such as industrialists, the council, local government and the State Government take seriously the problem of employing or finding work for young people. There are a number of other serious matters in the education field. For example, I met the Asian students at Cleeland high school last week and there are Asian students at many other schools. There is the Dandenong high school and the Hallam high school and many such schools in the electorates of honourable members. Those Asian students who came here three or four years ago were given an undertaking in the high commissions in Kuala Lumpur, in the Philippines, in Bangkok and in Singapore that if they were successful in their secondary school education in Australia they would be staying on for their tertiary education. 
What is going to happen to these people under the new scheme? I am glad to say I have seen one of the Minister's advisers this afternoon. I am told the Government proposes to make a statement either this weekend or next. I hope it will safeguard the position of these young Asian students who are our guests and will preserve their right to carry on with their tertiary education. 
The other matter I want to deal with is the question of hospitals. We are getting more and more building of houses in the area of Endeavour Hills and Cranbourne. I do not know what is happening. Who continues to prosper? There are more houses going up every day and more complications. I regret that people sometimes find there is no primary school readily available. I agree that transport is difficult. Transport belongs to the State. I agree too that there are problems of proper hospital services and facilities. Certainly the Dandenong hospital is a first class major hospital, but people who fall sick down in the Cranbourne area will certainly have to look for some form of hospital service in that area. 
My real objective today is not to continue any further discussion on these subjects but to discuss the journey I made with the taxpayers' money. I believe if an honourable member receives a gratuity from the Government in order to make an overseas journey it is his first duty, surely, to report to this House and to give his electors some account of what he did with the taxpayers' money which he was given by the Parliament. I want to turn today to my visit overseas. I travelled 24,000 miles. I visited 1 1 countries and part of those 17 days were spent in the air. I received both before going and on return the enormous help of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Indeed, without its assistance I could not have achieved all I did in the time. I do not think this House or this nation should too glibly run down those who work in Foreign Affairs. They are being proved to be some of the greatest experts in the field of international relations. I found that out not only in Vietnam and in China but in Cyprus and the Middle East. 
The world situation is really that Australia has been partially isolated from the major oil crisis because we have our own supplies. Everybody overseas considers that we have one of the highest standards of living in the world and that 14 million people on this continent are in possession of some of the world's greatest energy supplies, including uranium. So far we have not been subjected to any threat, nor has there been much internal dislocation. We are having problems with our manufacturing industries- that is nothing new. These problems have to be faced by all countries in the Western world. We realise that places like Singapore, Korea and Taiwan are able to produce the things that we would like to sell; they produce them cheaper. These factors alone do not threaten the Australian industry. We simply have got to learn to make adjustments for the technical change in the technical world in which we are living. 
The world situation, in fact, is far more stable than either the national media or the so called experts, both civil and military, can comprehend. It is unfortunate that their interest lies in sensation and drama. Both these preclude vision, understanding or wisdom. The danger of a world nuclear war by accident is much reduced because of the impact of the Cuba crisis which has not been forgotten. However, the increasing nuclear capacity to make weapons in India, Israel, Pakistan and perhaps Brazil is a matter for serious national concern. 
The Strategic Arms Limitation Talks now going on in Moscow are proof that the Soviet Union and the United States would like to come to an agreement, and that the agreement should be honoured by the United States, but the discovery of a Soviet mechanised regiment in Cuba- even though it has been there since 1972- has caused some problems. A war between the Soviet Union and China is as illogical as it is unthinkable. At present both countries are discussing their relations in Moscow. I do not believe that these two countries will suddenly stop discussing their rivalry, because they are two rival marxist communist countries. Their statements about each other may mainly be for the folks back home. The balance of world power of course has altered and it must be accepted. The treaty of friendship signed by China and Japan last year shows that they are both sincerely interested in helping each other. Japan needs the raw materials and China needs the technical assistance. Indeed it can be said that their economies are almost complementary. 
The other major event in world affairs has been the development of the new conciliation and consultation group. In any world crisis the following countries will consult immediately: The United States of America, Britain, India, Japan, Australia and other members of the Commonwealth. A fast and active world consultation group has been slowly developed to make certain that a war does not break out and get out of control. Of course there have been a number of scares. There have been Russian ships in the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Even though the Soviet Union may decide to build more modern battle cruisers this should not cause us undue alarm. If the Soviet Union persuades Vietnam to build naval installations at Da Nang and Cam Ranh Bay that would be a matter of some concern to Japan and all of us in the Pacific area. Maybe the Soviet Union just wishes to demonstrate that she is a world power in practice as well as in theory. Therefore, I cannot see at present a major military threat being levelled against Australia. At present our neighbours do not have the naval capacity to lift a force to the mainland, to supply it or to give air cover. That does not mean that we should not be careful that serious internal disputes are not developing within Papua New Guinea. 
I think that what the Budget has provided for defence is adequate. Having visited the armoured regiment at Puckapunyal last week to watch firing on the range and also having travelled in the Leopard tank I am satisfied that the readiness of Australian Armed forces, considering the size of the nation, is adequate, is perfectly valid and is a very valuable defence deterrent. The major point of my tour was to visit Vietnam to discuss with the Vietnamese Government the problems it is having with China and then to go to China, as the guest of the Chinese Government, to spend a fortnight in that country. Indeed, it would be wrong if I did not today say that I am deeply grateful to the  Deputy  Vice  President  of the Institute of International Affairs. He gave up a great deal of his time to discuss the Vietnam situation and also to listen to my views concerning Tibet and to the views I had to express to him from the staff of the Dalai Lama, whom I visited when I was in Delhi. 
At the same time I had an opportunity to discuss trade between our two countries. It must be taken on the record that the present trade is worth $800m per annum- $700m in our favour. Therefore it is essential that the businessmen of Australia now take the opportunities that are available to them in the developing markets in China. The Chinese Government has recently passed a Bill through its parliament which permits Chinese companies to undertake joint ventures. It is therefore very interesting that I was able to take this news back to companies in my electorate and ask them whether they could assist the Chinese Government with some of the more modern technical applications of the refrigeration industry and things of that sort. Let it be not thought that China is not very technically advanced in any field it so chooses. I had an opportunity to go the motor factory in Peking to see army trucks being produced and to visit the machine tool industry in Kunming. Everywhere I was impressed by the number of young Chinese- and young Chinese girls- who were handling some of the most sophisticated and most modern machinery. 
China today is certainly one of the world's greatest powers. Its Government has shown far more interest in discussion of matters which concern law. It has now introduced its criminal code. China has also found quantities of oil and it has adequate quantities of other materials. Considering that today is China's national day, I think it would be polite of me to extend the good wishes of myself and all other honourable members who wish to associate with me to the ambassador for China in this country when I go and see him in a moment, and ask him to convey my personal goodwill to the Government in Peking. 
The visit in which I took part lasted a fortnight. I was able to travel on the railway between Chunking and Ch'eng-tu. I spent four days in Yunnan and I was able to see some of the old temples in Kunming. I am very glad to say that the Gang of Four was got rid of in time. One could hardly believe that it was actually about to put small factories into some of the most precious Buddhist temples in that part of the country. In Yunnan is the home of the tobacco growing industry. I am wondering whether some of the Australian tobacco companies will start buying Chinese tobacco. Why not? If there was a German buying mission there, they must have known that the tobacco of that part of China is low in tar content and is also low in nicotine. Therefore, there does seem to be a number of areas in which we ought to work together. Of course, one of them is the exploration of petroleum in the Gulf of Pohai. I must say to my Chinese hosts that I was deeply grateful for the opportunity to visit their country. Everywhere one sees Chinese they are always working, busy and active, and they are always bicycling. 
Australia cannot prosper if the Federal Government runs deeper into debt. Australia can never help the wage earner by pulling down the wage payer. Therefore Australia cannot help small business by destroying big business. Australia cannot further the brotherhood of man and national unity if people preach class hatred. Australia can never build character and courage if the Government takes away man's initiative. The Liberal Party philisophy stands for the protection of those who need protection. That is the party philosophy. It is the party of liberty and humanity. I commend the Government, and ask it please to make sure that all its Budgets are humane. 
-This evening there is a family in my electorate who have discovered that their husband and father is to be deported on 5 November. It is somewhat extraordinary that a deportation order should be served against a person, even though he be in gaol, and his family not be informed. It is agreed that  Mr Johann  Grunau is a German migrant who has been in Australia for 20 years. It is agreed that when he came to Australia he did so on a German passport. It is agreed that he offended and in a drugs case in Cairns he was sent to gaol for a period of six years for carrying marihuana, I believe it was. He served his sentence and was due to be released. The young children and the wife, having made a home in my electorate, awaited his return on 5 November. A letter came from the prison which in essence stated: 'I hoped to be with you all very soon, but this afternoon, despite my years of good behaviour, I was put back into close confinement and I was handed a deportation order.' 
After serving four years in Townsville gaol, having been married to an Australian citizen and having had three Australian children,  Mr Grunau  was sent by this Government and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  a deportation order signed by the Minister on 19 September and delivered on 29 September. This deportation order denied him the opportunity to return to his family. I suppose the idea was to deal with the matter quietly- to put him on an aircraft and to send him awaybecause his family were not told. Thank goodness I found out about it. If there is one thing that makes my blood boil, it is discovering a person who is married to an Australian citizen and who has Austraiian children being treated in this manner. I sent a message to the Minister to ask that he be in the chamber at 1 1 o'clock tonight to explain to this House and to me why a deportation order was served without the family being informed. 
There were two alternatives open to the Minister. I am surprised that the person was not deported immediately after the crime. I would be perfectly willing to agree to the whole family being deported. On the other hand, I would be much happier if the offender, having served his sentence, were allowed to join his family in my electorate.  Mr Grunau  did not know at the time how he could appeal. We had great difficulty in making quite certain that he knew his rights of appeal. I am very glad to say that counsel's advice has been taken and  Mr Grunau  will appeal against that deportation order on behalf of his Australian wife and his three Australian children. I am very glad that his counsel is doing this, although I understand that the Minister may have something important to say about the case which I do not know. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have leave to ask you a question? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented the other evening during the adjournment debate. May I make a personal explanation? 

 -Mr Speaker, when I made my personal explanation I meant to seek leave to have the statutory declaration incorporated in  Hansard  so that there could be no mistake about the matter. I now do so. 
Leave granted. 
-I disagree with the proposition. I think that a period of six months is necessary in surveillance. I do not see why the judge should be asked to carry out other than the normal routine procedures. After all, there will be a trial at a later date. Why, in this early stage, should the judge be asked to go through all this complicated rigmarole put down in the amendments. 
-It might be important. But I would suggest the importance would come up in the trial later. Therefore, I suggest that the amendments ought to be rejected. 
-I must agree to the sovereignty of Parliament. I must support what the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  has said. I must agree that, historically, we have not been allowed to question the funds given to these organisations. I must accept also that we cannot question the operation of these organisations. 
Well, the honourable member probably knows more than I do about  Mr Kim  Philby. 
I have just read the book. I also understand him and I have met him. 
I do not think that would be so. 
I know that  Colonel Lipton  did ask those questions and I realise that  Sir Harold  Macmillan probably replied to the best of his ability. I am not actually dealing with that point, though it is a very important one. The question of sovereignty of Parliament is paramount. I talked to the  Clerk  of the House about this matter and I am convinced that a resolution of this House would be sufficient to demand that anything to be required of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation would have to be provided to this House. That could be done by a resolution of this House. Therefore, I accept fundamentally that if a resolution of this House demanded something from ASIO it would have to be known. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  will agree that that is the maximum that the Parliament could demand, and it is a maximum power which would be used only in the most exceptional cases. The Opposition has asked for something which could be reasonable. I do not think what it is suggesting is unreasonable. 
I ask for the attention of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, as he might not be listening. I realise that the discussions between the chief Whip and the Minister are probably more important than what I have to say. I was just suggesting that the Minister might like to look carefully at this amendment, and, when he comes to the report stage, having discussed the matter with those concerned in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  say to himself: 'Which is to prevail, the sovereignty of Parliament or the Executive?' That is fundamental. I hope that the Minister is listening. Which is to prevail; the sovereignty of Parliament or the Executive? I would hardly think it possible that, without disclosing anything dangerous, this Parliament could not be provided with information as to the number of times warrants were granted or matters of this nature were dealt with. In fact honourable members probably would be happy to think that, if there were 20, 30 or 40 operations, they were probably doing their duty very well, whereas if there were only one or two operations they would be wondering whether they were worth the millions of dollars which they get. 
I am sorry. In order that I do not embarrass the Minister I will resume my seat. 
I was delighted this evening to receive from the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  a full copy of the letter by  Mr Justice  Staples,  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, about the Government's proposed changes to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. On page 4 of his letter appears a statement which I think honourable members will be most interested to hear. It reads: 
The Bill proposes to require Commissioners to consult with Presidential members in certain circumstances, in a smoke-filled back room, as it were, to deal with the interests of absent parties. In every sense this proposal deprecates the competence and integrity of Commissioners. They are - 
I suppose in this smoke-filled back room- directed to submit their will and their judgment in the discharge of an office (in which they have given their oath faithfully and impartially to perform the dudes of that office ') to the overriding determination of another. 
I never read anything of that sort in the Bill. I wonder whether this is written by a man of the law or a politician? I am amazed that the honourable member for Hindmarsh could be so affronted. In his wind-up,  Mr Justice  Staples stated: 
Whether or not the jurisdiction is left in our hands by the High Court, which of us in any event would want to be like the judges in pre-war Germany who simply acted out their office in a train of events that culminated in legal conclusions that 'Jews ' and 'Communists' were no longer full citizens entided to rely on rights previously accumulated, that is to say, were persons who could be struck down by a mere executive act. 
I think the media, for the first time, were quite right. I am amazed to find an occasion when one would really think that the media were perfectly fair. What were judges in pre-war Germany? Were they some sort of saintly organisation? I thought that in pre-war Germany the nazi government was in full power. What is the Opposition complaining of? I am amazed to think that the honourable member for Hindmarsh could be so sensitive. I would say that  Mr Justice  Staples has stated his view quite clearly. What he does not like is any action of this Parliament to decide that we should reinforce the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to protect the members of smaller unions and give job security. My own electors do not care about what goes on in this high fandango of arbitration. They want job security. They are saying: 'Does the legislation of the 
Government give me more chance of job security or not?' The perfect answer is that it will. What is more, the Opposition has not woken up to this fact- the electorate knows it will increase job security. This honourable justice has complained that the Government is going to strengthen the powers of the  President  of the Commission. What is wrong with that? Does the Opposition object to that? Why has it not said so? If the Act asks a Commissioner to consult with the  President,  does that mean to say that when he has consulted the  President  he will say to the two parties - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member is not entitled to canvass the contents of a question that has previously been before the House or is scheduled for the attention of the House.  His  remarks in the main were acceptable but he is now proceeding to debate the contents of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. If he continues to do so he will be out of order. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think you have probably run me out of time. I say quite frankly that this proposition put before us by the honourable member for Hindmarsh does not stand up to any examination by any honourable member of parliament. The honourable member for Hindmarsh is greatly mistaken. The letter I have read is political pamphleteering and I cannot see that it has any justification whatever. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House affirms its absolute and unqualified support of the ANZUS Treaty and congratulates all ranks of the Australian armed forces on their successful and impressive exercise, Kangaroo Three, on land, sea and air in cooperation with the allied forces of New Zealand and the United States Marines. 
The motion is seconded by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and supported by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson). 
-This is no time for a debate here.  Mr Speaker,  I would suggest and believe that, if it is a prima facie situation, you alone must make the decision and there is no debate. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, concerns the electric motor car, which is a new invention in this world. In order to conserve oil and to minimise air and noise pollution, will the Minister advise the House of the steps being taken to facilitate electric motor vehicles being offered to the Australian public? In view of the technical problems involved in battery storage, will he confer with his Cabinet colleagues and suggest that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the universities try to obtain a breakthrough for Australia? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, you and the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  will appreciate that during wartime certain people carried out services on behalf of the Government. Those services were not quite recognised by the Government because they were virtually unknown. I ask: Does this Bill provide that we will be able to look after those people provided that the Government can certify that they were on active duty with the Special Operations Executive or any organisation which was known to the Government? Will they be protected by this Bill or not? 
I think the House has enjoyed this evening the thoughtful and sensible address of the honourable member - 
-I beg the pardon of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  He could not hear me quite clearly. He has been involved in the debate all evening and he has shown an enormous interest in it. I am glad he has made a tremendous contribution to the House. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  in point of fact turned their attention to one problem which we are facing tonight, and that is quite a clear one: Was the exercise of having these Estimates committees of any value or of any constructive use to this Parliament or not? That I think is the most fundamental point we have to consider. I do not object to other honourable members bringing forward their points of view on various appropriations, but I would have thought that this is one of the most fundamental things that this House has to decide. It was an experiment and the power of this House rests in the hands of the back benchers. If they are going back to their constituents and telling them-  (Quorum formed).  I have no good grounds to lose my patience with members of the Opposition who want me to have an audience at this moment. The honourable member for Lalor correctly pointed out in his speech that $20,000m is appropriated by this House. 
-I repeat, $20,000m. Sixty per cent of the total Budget is never examined by this House in any way. This is a first major effort by the back benchers to assert the sovereignty of Parliament. If honourable members go back to their electorates and tell their constituents that they are not prepared to serve on committees and examine this sort of expenditure they are in for real trouble. I can say without doubt that members of the public of this country are incensed at the lack of attention honourable members are paying to expenditure. This will rebound on us and on the credit of this Parliament. Let us be quite frank. The power of the Executive is increasing. It ought to be diminished. ' 
-The honourable member for Melbourne once more makes a personal observation. He is quite correct- no honourable member should talk with his hands in his pockets. Perhaps I have something of value in them. We have to say three very important things. Firstly, it was the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who was anxious and keen that there should be parliamentary reform. Let us get that right from the start. It was the head of the Executive himself who thought that the power of the Executive should be put under scrutiny by the back benchers of this House. If honourable members are not prepared to do their duty, that is their fault and the country will find out. Therefore, I have to ask: Were these committees of any value and were they successful? I would have thought that anybody who attended those committees would certainly have said at the end of the hearings that every Minister who attended answered every question to the best of his ability. 
I attended a number of the committee hearings. I thought that the Ministers answered our questions adequately and sensibly. I found no objection during examination of the Foreign Affairs Department. At none of the committee hearings I attended did the Ministers not make a major effort to answer the questions put by the back benchers. The honourable member for Hindmarsh complained that those public servants present at the committee hearings did not attempt in certain cases to answer the policy questions. I must admit that after a committee meeting any public servant whom one asked about any problem answered courteously and correctly. I thought that they were out to help us. Are we, the back bench members of this Parliament, suddenly to turn around and pour scorn on the efforts of the Ministers who were at the committee hearings? This is the first time we have used the system in this House. Will we pour scorn on the public servants who did their very best at short notice? That would be a very uncharitable thing to do. If this House had any respect for itself and if the back bench members had any respect for their function they would realise that although these committees are not perfect in any way they are a genuine effort by the back benchers to control the power of the Executive. Is that not what we are all about? 
Perhaps the honourable member for Kalgoorlie is not here to consider the Estimates or to examine what is spent by the Executive. 
-That is the finest contribution I have ever had by way of interjection in my life. I am glad that the debate is not being broadcast tonight. It is a great relief. Frankly we have to consider whether these committees are of any value. 
In that case all that I can do is to pay my respects to the  Clerk  of the House and to those who came to the committees and supplied us with information and who did everything in their power to assist us. At the same time I say that I considered that the contributions of the Ministers and those of the public servants were valid, valuable and helpful. If honourable members know so much about what is going on, if they know so much about the Executive and if they have all the information, why do they not go back to the old system? Why do they not sit down, take the money and do nothing? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Mr John  McLeay)- by leaveproposed: 
That the report of the Committee be adopted. 
I wish to speak to the motion that the report be adopted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Holt is not free to speak to the motion. 
Why not? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Despite the United Kingdom's joining the European Economic Community, is the Treasurer aware that the United Kingdom has now decided to abandon exchange control and other matters which will affect trade between Australia and the United Kingdom? Will the changes be of any advantage to Australia in view of the balance of payments position? As there is a sort of chop war going on at present over lamb chops, will the Australian Government and the Australian farmers help the United Kingdom in the lamb chop war with the French? 
-I wish to refer the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to section 20a of the principal Act which provides that a period of service of a member of a State Parliament can be taken into account in certain circumstances. I express considerable regret that my services to another Parliament cannot be taken into consideration by this honourable House. Nevertheless, I note that by an Act passed in the other Parliament in 1948 provision was made for any member of that House who happened to be serving in another capacity, either as a Minister in a war cabinet or as a member of another House, to get certain provisions. I do not want to press the matter because it would look as though I were fighting entirely for specific rights as far as the House of Commons is concerned. I think that would be wrong and uncharitable. However, if State members receive this benefit, perhaps at some time in the dim distant future service to other Parliaments in the Commonwealth could be considered. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-In the course of this year, this Parliament has made substantial progress in its effort to assert its authority over the Executive because in this Parliament there resides the sovereignty of the people. This evening we were very fortunate to hear a valuable debate concerning the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. Nobody could be more pleased than the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  and other honourable members who have been taking - 
He was not here. He complained in the  Australian Financial Review  that he was not too happy about the proceedings in this House. However, he will now agree that the back bench members are doing their very best to supervise the public expenditure and that therefore we are doing our best to care for the public money which is placed in our trust as a result of taxation. Nevertheless, whereas we go around examining how government departments are getting on, people are asking whether anybody has suggested that we ourselves should be looked at in regard to the way in which we discharge our duties in this House. For example, I am not always content to have my contributions to this House portrayed in my own electorate by a third party through the media. I regret that there is no broadcast of the adjournment debates, for example. Somebody in the Executive decided that adjournment debates would not be broadcast. I wonder why. 
Therefore, we are coming to a situation where the general public will say: 'We hear a lot of noise on the radio. What is it that makes a parliament so nervous of appearing on the television and why do members of parliament seem so reticent about having a trial experimental period with the television?' Some say that members of parliament would play to the gallery, but the television is a very subtle instrument and anybody who tried that game would soon be seen by his own electors. I dare say, too, that some electorate chairmen and some members of electorate committees might also take the view that the member whom they sent up to parliament was not in every respect performing the duties which he was elected to perform. Therefore, a trial period with the television cameras such as occurred in Canada would not, I think, do any honourable member any harm. I venture to suggest that the general public, who I am told are impassioned listeners of radio, would be very much happier if we allowed the televising of parliament. If that happens, it is quite certain that parliament itself must control its own television proceedings and its own television cameras. Apparently the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack),  who is interjecting, is not interested in the televising of the House. Perhaps he and his colleagues from Western Australia who are so far away from their electorates will find that the televising of parliament will be of an enormous advantage to their own electors. 
We would see how those interjecting and this conducting of an ordinary adjournment debate would appeal to the average person listening to the proceedings in this Parliament. I suggest that if a television camera were now on the honourable member seated in front of me, he would be turning to the camera so that we could see how attractive he looked instead of turning around to look at me. I suggest that  Mr Speaker  be invited, without delay, to consult with members of this House concerning an experimental period of televising the proceedings of this House. 
I ask the Deputy Prime Minister a question concerning the Prime Minister's health. Has he any information to give the House concerning the Prime Minister's recovery? When he is making those inquiries, will he convey the good wishes of this House to the Prime Minister? 
