My electorate of Batman is one of the biggest electorates in Australia, having some 62,000 electors and including parts of 4 of the oldest cities, namely, Collingwood, Fitzroy, Northcote and Heidelberg. I want to talk about the problem of urban living, which is a matter of particular concern to the people of Batman. I think we all agree that the problem of urban living manifests itself most acutely at the local government level. This is particularly true of my electorate. Our 4 local government authorities came into existence over 70 years ago and, in line with other local government authorities, were instituted to satisfy those social needs which would be better served by governments closer to the people than by either a State or Federal government. 
With the wisdom of hindsight, we can see that the demands on local government bodies at the turn of the century appeared to be very simple and that the organisational and financial structures were designed to suit their needs at that time. However, society has not stood still. Our needs have multiplied; our problems have compounded, and although we have made some organisational changes at the local government level and some minor changes in the financial support for local government we simply have not kept up with the times. So today we have a state of affairs in which the resources of local government, particularly in my electorate, are quite incapable of satisfying the demands made on them both in terms of community services and in the pressures for urban development. 
Let us consider for a moment the pattern of community services demanded of our local government authorities in the electorate of Batman today. Consider our elderly citizens. Fifty years ago people tended to live and work in the same area, and when the children grew up and married they often made their home in the locality in which they were born. However, the situation is different today. The people born and educated in the electorate of Batman since the war tend to make their homes in other areas of Melbourne, so we have a growing number of elderly people living alone and in need of some community support. The Australian Labor Party, of course, holds very strongly to the view that it is on the backs of these people that the economic worth of our nation was built and that we owe them a far greater share of our prosperity than this Government is prepared to recognise. 
Local government bodies, of course, recognise the needs of our elderly citizens and they have stepped into the breach. They are properly expected today to provide elderly citizens clubs, meals on wheels, home help services, etc. These cost considerable sums of money. The State governments have recognised the justification for these local government services and the Victorian Government has made token grants towards the cost of these services. However, the grants are woefully inadequate, as is exemplified by the economic position of the elderly citizens club at Collingwood. The capital cost of this club was $70,000, of which the State Government paid $10,000. The State provides $2,000 a year towards the running costs so long as the Collingwood Council provides the meals service, which costs $10,000 a year. A similar situation exists with the other community services provided by the Collingwood Council and the other three local government bodies in the electorate. 
Let us look at the young. Local government is required to provide infant welfare centres and immunisation campaigns and it is expected to support kindergartens. Here again the burden predominantly is on the municipality and its citizens with only token support available from the governments which control the purse strings. Local governments are experiencing tremendous difficulties today trying to satisfy what, in our affluent society, have come to be accepted as proper and essential social needs. I suspect that the situation is the same throughout Australia. We must recognise that these needs we are talking about are those which are best serviced by local government because it is the government closest to the people and these are basic human needs. 
But that is not the whole picture, sorry as it may be. The principal source of local government revenue is rating. The rating system may have been a satisfactory source 50 years ago but simply is not such today. You just cannot go on pushing the rates up higher and higher. There has to be an end to this, otherwise, if rates become too high, private citizens no longer will be able to afford them, thus driving our people further and further out of their own cities to newer areas where the merry-go-round will start all over again. It appears that the municipalities are now caught between a limited source of revenue on the one hand and an exploding demand for services on the other. 
This dilemma is sharpened by the larger urban development problems which the 1970s have in store for us. One of these urban development problems is the matter of high rise flats. It is part of modern mythology that these are the cheapest way of providing adequate housing for our citizens. Of course we know that in Melbourne such housing is not adequate enough for the citizens of our more affluent suburbs because only recently the citizens of Toorak were successful in preventing the intrusion of high rise flats into their living environment. Nevertheless, our governments are quite prepared to build these flats as fast as their funds allow, on the basis, as I said, that they are the cheapest method of providing housing for our citizens. Of course they are the cheapest if - it is a very big if and it has to be emphasised that it is only if - the cost of playing areas, schools, parking areas, reasonable social amenities and adequate transport facilities is excluded from the calculations. 
It also needs to be pointed out that nobody seriously claims that high rise flat living pays proper regard to the rights of the individual in terms of dignity and privacy. What is happening in Victoria is that somebody in the bureaucratic machinery of government has marked certain areas upon a map as being in need of re-development, which in that person's limited vision of life means nothing more than the construction of high rise flats. The land is expropriated regardless of the quality of life and the living environment in the area under attack, the people are evicted and the flats constructed. The people of Paddington in Sydney who have done such a magnificent job renovating and refurbishing the old houses in the area should thank God every night that the Victorian Housing Commission has no authority in New South Wales, otherwise some of the best living environments in Sydney would be demolished in the name of progress. As the people of Carlton in Melbourne know, while we can protect ourselves from those who do evil in the name of evil, God alone protects us from those who do evil in the name of good. 
Local governments virtually are powerless to provide the services which obviously should be provided for the people unfortunate enough to have thrust upon them th: task of rearing families in high rise flats or, for that matter, those passing their declining years in high rise flats. Local governments cannot provide the playing areas; they cannot provide the schools, swimming pools, youth clubs or elderly citizens clubs, all of which have to be provided separately for each high rise development. Is it any wonder then that local government is becoming a declining force in our government organisation? 
Added to this, our inner city municipalities today are being faced with a very special problem. There is a growing awareness in our community of the need for more orderly development of our cities and urgent and constructive action on pollution control. Recently, there was published in Victoria a traffic plan for the future development of Melbourne. Essentially this proposal was concerned with motor cars and how to facilitate their movement through and around Melbourne. It is worth noting that motor cars now are being increasingly recognised as the greatest polluters of all. One could be forgiven for concluding from this report that cities after all really are places for motor cars rather than people. Such was the emphasis in this report on the priority of the need? of private transport over public transport or pollution control. Of course we will need freeways but surely we have to get this matter into proper perspective. I hope we are able to do this before we are so committed in our freeway construction programmes that our cities degenerate into the concrete jungles clouded in smog that have become so much a part of the North American scene. 
However, it has to be emphasised that even with the best of all possible plans for transport, there are today, and will continue to be, special problems for our inner city municipalities. These are the areas on which our transport systems will converge and these are the areas that will suffer the greatest physical dangers as a result. They are also the focal point of the pollution problems of our nation. In short, this is the arena where our ability to construct the quality of our living environment is being most obviously put to the test. Thus, in the name of redevelopment, our inner city municipalities face a future of great physical upheaval. What voice have they in this planning function? The answer is: Practically none. For a start, the planning is completely unco-ordinated. Transport people, pollution authorities, education departments, social services departments and the other departments with responsibilities and authority act as though their associated departments did not exist. In the face of this unco-ordinated attack the local governments do not have the resources to give themselves a meaningful voice powerful enough to be heard and taken into account. And all of this intrusion into the municipalities is supposed to work itself out economically on the basis of enlightened self-interest which, as all honourable members know, is always self-interested and seldom enlightened. 
From the local government point of view an immediate effect of freeways and high rise flats is to markedly affect the status quo in regard to the value of land in the community. Some land values appreciate, others depreciate, and no mechanism exists either to spread the burden of land depreciation or to equitably reap the benefit of appreciation. Thus we have a growing band of astute ' speculators cashing in on the profits accruing from the land whose value appreciates and having for themselves for their own private use those profits which more properly should accrue to the community. Of course, these speculators leave the losses attached to land depreciation to be paid by the people of the municipalities. This is enlightened self interest, or so we are told. 
These are some of the problems faced by our inner city municipalities. The important point to appreciate is that the need is urgent because the appropriate government departments already have all their plans on paper and, indeed, in some respects, already have implemented them. It is essential for the people of our cities to have a voice in the matters that affect the quality of their lives. This is why we have local government. Our local government system may need to undergo drastic re-organisation but this will take time and we cannot wait for these matters to be finalised. What can be done immediately is to recognise that local governments simply do not have the resources available right now to enable them to have a meaningful voice in the planning of their communities. Direct financial grants to local governments would go a long way towards overcoming this particular problem. If local authorities had the funds they would be able to afford the cost of the research and expert advice necessary for them to be able to promote informed public interest in these matters and to make socially relevant and pertinent submissions to the appropriate authorities. 
It is my contention that first and foremost cities are places for people to live and that the proper vehicle for people to express themselves, in matters directly concerning their own communities, is through their local government. They are unable to do this today. However the Federal Government could do a lot towards making this possible simply by recognising this need and providing financial assistance direct to local governments, specifically for the purpose of equipping them with the capacity to meaningfully participate in the planning of their urban affairs. This, of course, would be only the first step. Our ultimate objective is surely the provision of a living environment that will provide the quality of life that our people in this rich country have a right to expect; a living environment that will give our people the opportunity to develop themselves to their full potential. 
I contend that one of the prerequisites for the development of people is their involvement in the construction of their living environment and the proper vehicle for this involvement is their local government. If local government bodies are powerless in these matters, as they arc tending to become, we can expect the public to be apathetic about them. It is within the power of the Treasury benches to reverse this trend, because they and they alone have the resources. The Labor Party recognises the problem. It sees local government as a vital part of our national political structure. When Labor becomes the Government it will ensure that local authorities have the resources they need to be able to play the role properly expected of them in this affluent society. We are sick of the cry: Where is the money coming from?' Our attitude is based on the simple premise, that if this wealthy country cannot solve the problems of its living environment it is not because of the lack of resources but rather a failure of leadership. 
 I ask the Treasurer a question, ls the Government aware that imported model ships are permitted to be landed free of sales tax when they are used for publicity or exhibition purposes? Since these purposes constitute a significant portion of the Australian demand, will the Government arrange for the Australian model building industry to be given the same relief from sales tax and import duty when supplying the Australian demand for models for publicity and exhibition purposes? 
Has the Minister for Health seen a report of the Victorian Civil Ambulance's bed bureau which slates that one Melbourne hospital has shut down completely due to staff shortages and that more than 250 hospital beds in Victoria are out of action due to lack of staff? Can the Minister verify whether the report is correct? If the report is correct, does he regard it as consistent with his claims that the Australian hospital system is as good as any other in the world? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it a fact that members of the Ustashi, the Nazi Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party and the regimes of Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa and Saigon are united in their spontaneous support of the invasion of lndo-China by some of Australia's allies? (Honorable members interjecting) - 
Will the kitchen which the Minister for Repatriation recently opened at the Heidelberg Repatriation General Hospital and the proposed new operating facilities which he referred to recently in answer to a question allow the opening of any of the closed beds or wards in the hospital? If not, what steps are being taken to make more beds available? 
I move: 
In clause 17 sub-clause (1.) omit from paragraph(f)  the  words 'outside Australia' and insert in Australia or elsewhere'. 
This amendment relates to the clause which denies the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation the right to engage in the construction of engineering works within Australia. We on this side of the House believe that this destroys the very spirit of the Corporation. For many years now those thousands of Australians who take pride in their country's achievements and triumphs have found satisfaction and inspiration in the successes of the Snowy Mountains Authority. Our overseas visitors, newspaper editors, and particularly our engineers - in fact everyone - recognises that the Snowy Mountains scheme epitomises all that is to be admired in Australia and that it is our best example of Australian getupandgo. Even the former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  a man dedicated, it would seem, to presiding over the death of the Snowy Mountains Authority, was unstinting in his praise of the Snowy Mountains scheme. On 28th August 1969 he is reported as having told the nation: 
In this regard I would remind members that although we may be approaching the stage of taking the Snowy Mountains scheme for granted, it is still the largest development project ever undertaken in Australia, and will possibly remain the largest ever undertaken. 
He must have expected that, with such limited vision, he would have remained in office forever. He continued: 
Its basic concepts and the skill, drive and imagination with which they have been carried out have received world acclaim. The hard won skills acquired in such an undertaking would not be dissipated. 
Of course, despite his words on that occasion, it is well known and well documented that he had been actively engaged in dissipating the hard won skills for some years past. Now our worst fears have been confirmed, not to our surprise, by the successor to this former Minister. The Bill introduced by the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  completely emasculates the Snowy Mountains Authority by the simple device of denying it the right to continue in the fields of construction activities in Australia. The Minister's second reading speech brought to my mind some lines written by the South African poet, Roy Campbell. He wrote: 
You have to praise their firm restraint I'm with you there of course: They use the snaffle and the curb But where's the bloody horse? 
We may well ask: Where is the scope to use the hard won skills and services of the Snowy Mountains Authority under this Bill? For in denying the Corporation the right to the construction of, or the performance of any work in relation to, engineering works in Australia the Government is removing from the Corporation the very element which gave to the Corporation, or the Authority, its essential character.  Sir William  Hudson expressed concern that the team spirit of the Authority would disappear if the Authority switched to design and consulting work. In short,  Sir William  was convinced that the vital nexus between design and construction was the source from which the special character of the Authority emanated.  Sir William  also expressed the view that he had always hoped that the Authority would be used in the same way as the United States Bureau of Reclamation, which had engaged in construction projects all over America. And who better than  Sir William  to express an authoritative view - a view worthy not only of consideration but also of acceptance? 
There is no doubt that the Authority's success is derived in no small measure from its esprit de corps and it is this esprit de corps which this Government, through the agency of the Minister for National Development and his precedessor is determined to destroy. It is demonstrably true that men are by their very nature creative beings who derive satisfaction from the willing performance of productive activities and there is no doubt that work on the Snowy Mountains scheme, by virtue of its national importance, by virtue of the magnitude of the tasks undertaken and by virtue of the inherent challenge to those in both higher and lower echelons, inspired the work force, just as their success inspired the Australian people. It is little wonder then that within the Authority there existed an esprit de corps that was without parallel in this nation's history. It is little wonder then that this Government quickly recognised, as even the meanest talent would, that the dismemberment of this great 
Authority would best be done, even if not quickly, by attacking that esprit de corps, by demoralising the Authority's work force, and this was, and is, the ignoble job to which the Minister and his predecessor addressed themselves. 
The Government and the then Minister must have been encouraged by a report in the 'Australian' newspaper of 10th June 1967 by  Mr Anthony  Curtis who found unrest and apathy as the men from the Snowy faded away.  Mr Curtis  wrote that the men of the Snowy:   . . were washed up as a construction force, but 'elements' of their investigation, design and scientific services staff, plus a few administrators, would still have a job. 
According to  Mr Curtis  the questions the men from the Snowy were asking were: Who will form the elements?' 'What work will they undertake?' These questions, 3 years later almost to the day, have still not been answered. The situation as it existed then is the situation that exists today. 

 Mr Dann, the Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains Authority, is still respected but is still referred to privately as 'the undertaker' because he still has the invidious task of having to attend to the Authority's final dismemberment and even demise. The hypocrisy of this Bill as it stands is evidenced by the fact that the Government is prepared to allow the Snowy Mountains Authority to compete with foreign enterprise in foreign lands. This indicates that the Government agrees with the Australian Labor Party and the people of Australia that the Snowy Mountains Authority is a magnificent construction authority, capable of holding its own in any land. Why then is the Government prepared to allow foreigners to reap the benefit of this world class construction authority and yet deny these same benefits to the people of Australia? Can the Government give us an assurance that it has nol made some deal with foreign corporations to give them unrestricted access to Australian resources for no other reasons than their own private profit? Why is the Government giving such an open cheque to foreign enterprise when the records show that in this field we have one of the finest construction authorities in the world? Is the Government afraid that the Snowy Mountains Corporation will be too efficient and effective for these foreign interests to compete with within Australia? ls the Government afraid of competition in Australia? It obviously does not care about competition in foreign lands since the Bill allows the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to compete as a construction authority anywhere except in Australia. 
Labor initiated the Snowy River project and Labor, in consultation with the States, would carry through without interruption a programme of planned development, or further irrigation, electrification, road building and so on. This clause of the Bill is merely further evidence of the Government's determination to put the riches of our country at the mercy of foreign enterprise and comes as no surprise from the Liberal Party which sees any national effort, be it the Snowy Mountains Authority or the Australian Industry Development Corporation, as a threat to its friends who could not care less about the welfare of the Australian people. I hope that the Government will give due regard to this amendment. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth. 
That due to higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
The Average Weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition; so that our Citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the Home of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Batman respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned al what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay: and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Austalian Constitution', page 951): and 
That, in accordance wilh the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in I he Melbourne Herald on 14 November 1969. the majority of Australian citizens  Kant  censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity. 
Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its, school children. 
only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inequalities. 
nations such the the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the national Government. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
A joint Commonwealth State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities. 
The immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aborigines, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children. 
The provision of pre-school opportunities lor all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever Pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled; The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various States and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, . 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping  and Transport, upon notice: 
What was the last Australian National Line ship to be refitted and repaired in Melbourne for 
Has the tender system been abandoned for repairs and surveys on Australian National Line ships. 
If so, which ship repair firms in Melbourne carry out this work under a cost-plus system. 
If the tender system has  been  abandoned, why was this action taken and what advantages does the cost-plus system offer. 
Which stevedoring firms in Melbourne carry out the stevedoring operations on ANL ships and from which groups do these firms engage their watchmen. 
What are the reasons for the choice of these particular firms to do this work. 
When ANL ships arebeing repaired in Melbourne from which company or pickup are 
shipwrights and (b) painters and dockers engaged. 
Is it a fact that Duke's and Orr's Amalgamated Dry Docks Ltd are demolishing their Melbourne dry dock. 
If so, is a new dry dock planned for Melbourne. 
If a new dry dock is planned, will he indicate (a) whether the Government will make funds available to assist with its construction and 
who will be the new owner. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas; 
That they fear the police forces of the various  States and Territories are undermanned and under equipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that the Commonwealth Government will seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the States to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime. 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That they are gravely concerned at the apparent appalling increase in crime in Australia, particularly in densely populated areas: 
That they fear the police forces of the various Slates and Territories are undermanned and underequipped to handle the increase in crime; 
That their concern is aggravated by the apparent number of unsolved crimes particularly those involving violence to the individual including murder, 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure thai the Commonwealth Government wi'l seek the co-operation of the States and supply extra finance to the Slates to enable; 
proper town planning and development to halt the increase in densely populated areas which leads to increased crime, 
the proper staffing and equipping of police forces to enable adequate crime prevention and detection measures to reduce the frightening increase of both solved and unsolved crime, 
the proper detention of and rehabilitation of criminals, and 
compensation to victims of crimes of violence, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise: What is the number of officers employed by his Department who are authorised or required to ascertain whether literature is indecent or obscene? Is the perusal of this literature made necessary by legal restriction on material which may tend to corrupt or deprave the readers? On what basis are such officers chosen, what tests are applied to assess the corrupting or depraving effect upon them and what action has been taken as a result of any such effect? 
I address a question to the Minister for Defence. Is it true that this year's defence budget provides for more than 42 per cent greater expenditure than the average yearly expenditure on defence during World War II? Is this increase in expenditure due in part to an immediate military threat to Australia and a danger greater now than it was in World War II? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the only source of revenue of local government authorities is by way of rates and charges on property. 
Are the rates and charges levied on ratepayers necessarily increased because the costs of local government authorities are increased through the payment of payroll tax. 
Is the payroll tax thus an extra charge on ratepayers. 
If so. will he consider taking steps to exempt local government authorities from the payment of payroll tax. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the recent discovery of widespread excessive lead content in culinary earthenware, reported in 'Time' magazine of 12th October 1970 as being responsible for some deaths? Will the Minister initiate inquiries in Australia to inform the Australian people of the risks, if any, of using various kinds of pottery and crockery as food and drinking utensils? 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  which reads: 
That whilst not refusing to give the Bill a second reading this House condemns the Government for the delay in providing a comprehensive programme of migrant education, adequate finance, facilities and capital equipment including buildings. 
The programme designed to teach migrants to speak English has failed dismally. There is no doubt of that, for in his pamphlet, Education for Adult Migrants', Professor W. F. Connel says that it appears that the language programme is steadily slipping backwards. He went on to say that a recent survey conducted by the Department of Immigration indicates that about one-third of foreign born migrants cannot speak English, and the Department's classes cater for only a small proportion of these. It appears that many past arrivals have remained largely ignorant of the English language and that, so far as catching up with this backlog of students is concerned, present classes are not matching the numbers of present arrivals. The classes seem, in fact, to be falling short of current arrivals. The survey, of which Professor Connell speaks, was conducted as recently as 1969. 
From October 1968 to October 1969 there were 19,915 students enrolled in evening classes for migrants in New South Wales. I think we must all agree that this enrolment of nearly 20,000 migrants in English language classes in 1 year in 1 State is very encouraging in that it indicates that our new arrivals are willing to learn the English language if given the opportunity. But no fewer than 17,959 of these ambitious and hopeful enrolees abandoned their courses, many of them after only 1 or 2 lessons. We should ask ourselves why so many gave up their studies in a tongue which would improve their job opportunities and enhance their integration into the Australian community. Did they abandon the classes because they considered English to be of no advantage? Did they abandon the classes because of the methods of teaching, or were their reasons, as some non-migrants have said, economic? 
It is my opinion that if the migrant language training programmes failure - a programme that has been in operation for many years - can be attributed to any single cause, it is the exclusive use of the situation method of language instruction. I am sure that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  does not agree with me on this matter, for obviously if he did the Bill would be substantially different. For example, the Federal Department of Education and Science, which is administering Commonwealth grants for the Department of Immigration, is insisting that teaching follow the situational method which is taught to adult migrants in its classes for children. While it may not be disturbing that the situation method should be used to instruct adults who are already well educated before coming here, that the Department should think highly enough of this method to thrust it on migrants of little education is frightening. My misgivings about the exclusive use of the situation method of instruction of adult migrants arise because there are 2 general groups of migrants for whom this Bill does not make reasonable provision. Firstly, there are the young migrants, just out of school, not well educated and thrust immediately on their arrival here into the grinding and mindshackling mills of unskilled employment; and, secondly, there are the older migrants, also not well educated but long out of school and confined to the home and thereby effectively isolated from the community in which they will live out their lives and isolated from the community which is supposed to give meaning to their lives. 
These 2 groups have 1 thing in common - a lack of education. Some people might say that they have 2 things in common - a lack of education and a lack of opportunity. But since I have hopes that this latter unfortunate circumstance will soon be remedied I will not carp on whether they have 1 or 2 things in common. In lacking education they suffer a lack of knowledge and understanding of their own cultural heritage and in the long run this particular lack is more unfortunate for them than their inability to speak our tongue, for implicit in a lack of understanding of their own culture is a lack of facility in their own tongue, and this is disastrous, because, as everybody knows, language is more than words. But despite this, the Department is insisting that instruction, not only for adolescents and older migrants, including those who will hardly be involved in the. wider spheres of community life because their activities are confined to the home, but also for children should be by the situation method, as though the study of language or the proper use of words can be divorced from the study of the history and literature which produced those words. 
Does a parrot, which not only can utter - or is it 'screech' - words but also can demonstrate a use of phrases understand the quality of the words it uses? Does the bird, or the person of limited education who is taught words by the situation method, grasp the differences of meaning that depend upon particular contexts? Consider, for example, the difference between a bay of the sea, a bay mare, the bay of a hound, a stag at bay, or a bay leaf. It may be said that this is a trivial example, but to get proper results contexts must be considered, not single words, as does the situation method of instruction. Situations and not translations are used to teach the meaning of new structures. The use made of any situation at any one time is limited to the use or teaching of one grammatical form or group sentence patterns. No attempt is made to teach other structures which also could arise from the particular situations. Language cannot be separated from culture. Words are meaningless without an accompanying concept. For instance, in a lesson relating to pets a teacher found that pets were outside the reference of some migrant students. They could not imagine a pet, nor could they imagine feeding an animal which did not provide its owners with food, shelter or protection. 
It is clear that migrants cannot be fitted into, for whatever purposes, an homogeneous group. Rather do migrants comprise a number of sub-groups extensively diverse in terms of age, innate ability, achievement and desire for learning the English language. These facts are commonplace. Is it not then too much to expect that a single method of language instruction could possibly satisfy the various and diverse needs of our new arrivals? Should we not therefore adopt teaching programmes designed to cater for the specific needs of the major sub-groups which have entered our community? Such programmes might not only depart from the situational method of language instruction but also would demand the use of bi-lingual teachers, for there is no doubt that students would be more at home with teachers who spoke their own language and who could understand their fears and misgivings in a new environment. Such teachers would cushion both the language and cultural transition through which every migrant painfully, and with trepidation, inevitably passes. 
It is difficult to escape the conclusion that the Government has no real interest in spreading the use of English among migrants who need English instruction hut that the Government is merely interested in turning out human capital, that is, people who will serve the economic machine. Somewhere in his writings Galbraith tells us that despite the vanity of educators it is not they but industry that shapes the lines of development of an education system. As Professor Daniel Bell of Columbia University points out: 
The raising of human capital is a much more complex process than the raising of financial capital. It is the limits to human capital rather than to financial capital which have become the fundamental element limiting the growth of society. 
The imperatives of industry demand that unskilled and semi-skilled process workers have some knowledge of English, but nothing more than a rudimentary knowledge - just enough to enable people from a variety of countries to bid each other good morning' on the factory floora nd thus give the impression that on the factory floor unity in diversity is to be found. We now know that few southern Europeans need to learn English in order to establish themselves. A survey in Victoria showed that southern Europeans communicate almost entirely in their own language. According to the sample, over  75  per cent worked with fellow nationals,  66  per cent did not. need English for their work, more than  80  per cent had no social contact outside their national group, about  90  per cent lived with relatives, 94 per cent used their native tongue exclusively at home and most patronised shops where their own language was spoken. 
The reasons for abandonment of English instruction courses by these groups are important when viewed in the context of the proposal to expand and upgrade the services provided by these classes. The most common reason for abandoning the course was dissatisfaction with the classes, particularly with the mixing together of advanced and less advanced students. Economic considerations were also important, such as working overtime, shift work and having two jobs which conflict with the set times of the courses. Language is a too! of some potency and the chief vehicle of centuries of culture. Any programme for the instruction of migrants in the English language should begin by instructing the foreign speaking migrant in his own language. The migrant should be instructed to a stage of fluency and facility in his native tongue, and at the same time he should be instructed in his own history and literature. 
Let us return again to Professor W. F. Connell. Speaking of social understanding he says: 
I he present adult migrant education programme concentrates on language teaching. Incidentally, and on occasions, deliberately, it introduces materIs I lo acquaint the student with various aspects of the Australian way of life. 
Language teaming is obviously  of  great importance in an integration programme, but it is not necessarily the central feature of it. Tan, in analysing the assimilation process, has interestingly pointed out that 'the popular belief is not correct that knowledge of English is a prerequisite for the satisfaction and identification of non-British immigrants. Much more frequently it is the satisfaction and identification of the immigrant that leads to any substantial progress in English. 
It is important to realise that the disadvantaged migrant family in Australia has a distrust of schools and a lack of knowledge about the aims and methods of teaching employed by teachers at schools which their children attend. Unless this ignorance and hostility is dispelled, the chances of the schools achieving good results with migrant children will be limited. These parents are unable to join school committees, mainly because of their own lack of English, and meeting procedures are too difficult with this extra disadvantage. There is an urgent need for 'contact' social workers to provide links between migrant families and schools. 'Contact' schemes have worked well in Canada and the United States of America. The cost of 100 contact social workers if employed by the Department of Education and Science would be approximately $500,000 annually. 
If an expanded programme for English instruction for larger numbers of migrants is to be put into operation, a large increase in expenditure will be necessary, An appropriation of $990,000 was made for the education of migrants in the 1969-70 financial year. This figure has proved totally inadequate, and an additional expenditure above this figure of $1m would need to be considered for an effective education programme. Professor Connell strongly recommended the introduction of day classes for mothers, the expansion of pre-embarkation and on-ship courses and semi-intensive part time courses for all migrants wishing to help themselves integrate into their new country. Already professional men receive allowances while undertaking courses. It is hard to imagine a more elitist approach than this. The average migrant who will be placed at a disadvantage, as will his children, receives no such special assistance. Australia should not be party to discriminatory treatment in favour of those who have already received a better education in their home country. 
In the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  delivered in October a promise of $4m was made for the removal of difficulties of migrant children. This was to be the total grant spread over 3 years and took no account of the educational assistance required by adult migrants. Any worthwhile programme qf migrant education would cost in the vicinity of $4m annually. Clause 4 (1.) provides 
The courses of instruction to which this section relates are - 
courses in the English language: and 
courses designed to impart an understanding of the rights and duties of an Australian citizen and of the way of living of the Australian people. 
Therefore the provisions of this Bill do not go far enough, even if we concede that paragraph (b) has some merit. So let us ensure thai our migrants have a proper understanding of their own language, or their own culture, and of our tongue, by the situation method if you like, but let us instruct them in all three concurrently. 
In addition to the subjects to be taught, let us end the practice of gathering together for language instruction people of various nationalities. While we talk much of integration, it seems to me that in practice we pursue assimilation. Whether we do this intentionally because we prefer assimilation to integration, or whether the determining factor is blind economic necessity, I have not yet determined, but the essential need of any integration programme is to keep together people who have an affinity of race or nationality, in order that they might strengthen each other during the period of integration, during that period of their lives in which they suffer greatly the inevitable tensions produced by cultural conflict and the material poverty which Professor Henderson tells us so many southern European migrants suffer. 1 am certain that such a practice alone would do much to reduce the numbers of students who abandon language instruction classes. Everyone knows the great binding power of small groups. Even S; Paul had a word to say about this. In Romans, chapter 1, verses 1 1 and 12, he said: 
For  i  long to see yon . . . that  1  may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith of both you and me. 
In conclusion, if we are to make provision in this Bill for the 2 groups of people to whom I have referred, namely the poorly educated adolescent and the poorly educated new arrival who is confined to the smaller community of the home, we must not only teach them our tongue but also we must relate it to their own language, their own culture and in classes of their own people and, more importantly, their teachers must speak and understand the language of the students. 
asked  the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the vast majority of Australian citizens pay for their access roads by way of rates and charges which are allowable as taxation deductions. 
If so, will he consider taking steps to extend the same privilege to those people whose properties are on private roads for which they pay the whole cost. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, The humble petition of the citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commerical purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our national emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The export of all kangaroo products be banned immediately and the Commonwealth Government make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the kangaroo. 
That pressure be brought to bear on the Queensland Government to declare a closure of season each year to permit population recovery. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the Citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
The red kangaroo and many other marsupials, through shooting for commercial purposes, have been reduced to a numerical level where their survival is in jeopardy. 
None of the Australian States have sufficient wardens to detect and apprehend people breaking the laws in existence in each State, and in such a vast country only uniform laws and a complete cessation of commercialisation can ensure the survival of our national emblem. 
It is an indisputable fact that no natural resource can withstand hunting on such a concentrated scale, unless some provision is made for its future. 
We, your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
The export of all kangaroo products be banned immediately, and the Common wealth Government make a serious appraisal of its responsibility in the matter to ensure the survival of the kangaroo. 
That pressure be brought to bear on the 
Queensland Government to declare a closure of season each year to permit population recovery. 
And, your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Treasurer will be aware that bankers have stated that what is known as the Minsec affair has restricted bank credit for sound propositions and that at least one of the trading banks is a creditor of Mineral Securities Ltd. In the light of Government powers restricting bank lending, how is it possible for a trading bank to advance sums of the magnitude of several million dollars without effective security? 
The longer the Government speaks out on this matter of law and order, the more obvious it becomes that the matter in issue is not that of law and order but rather the sincerity and the moral values of this Government. Let us look at the facts. Our society is split asunder on the issue of the Vietnam debacle and both industry and union leaders are fearful of uncontrolled inflation upon our economy - issues which threaten to strike at the very heart of the Government. Suddenly the Government wants to proclaim itself as the champion of law and order. The Government was not interested in law and order in 1966 when an attempt was made to assassinate the then Leader of the Australian Labor Party, the Right Honourable Arthur Calwell. It was not interested in law and order in 1969 when the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and his wife were brutally assaulted in the privacy of their home. It was not interested in law and order more recently when bombs were thrown by Fascist terrorists into the Yugoslav Embassy in Hawthorn. To the contrary, it appears that the Government condones this type of violence, as the only reaction to date has been to declare the Embassy a public nuisance and to ask the occupants to vacate the premises. 
Suddenly, after a near defeat in a vital Senate election and after defeat of the Liberal Party candidate in the Murray byelection, the Government suggests that we need more Federal political laws to give us law and order. We did not need these laws when  Mr Calwell  was the target of an assassin's bullet and when  Dr Cairns  and his wife were the innocent victims of brutal thugs. Suddenly, if we are to believe the Government, we need them now. Clearly the onus is on the Government to explain why we suddenly need more Federal political laws, because the timing and the extent of its law and order interests raise questions about its sincerity. While the Government is at it, it should also explain to the people of Australia . why its sincerity does not extend to those problems in our community where enlightened action is required urgently. I have in mind such problems as our rising crime rate, our appalling road toll, the desperate plight of our pensioners and the depressed state of our rural economy, to name but a few. The facts are there for all to see. The Government was not concerned with law and order when members of the Labor Party were the victims of law breakers. 
The Government has been utterly apathetic about our rising crime rate. There is no concern about the growth rate of undetected crimes, particularly crimes of violence against people. When we realise that we already have a Crimes Act in our Commonwealth Statutes and that every State has a Crimes Act, each with special sections dealing with precisely the same supposed breaches of the law as this Bill, one can feel only that the Bill and the debate provoked by presenting it are nothing more than a political exercise designed by the Government to divert public attention away from its other more desperate inadequacies. Every night packs of undisciplined young hooligans roam the streets of our big cities bashing, robbing and terrorising ordinary citizens who are going about their lawful business. Many of these attacks are not reported to the police because of the futility of achieving results. In Victoria in 1969 and 1970 only 21 persons were charged with wilful trespass in relation to political demonstrations. Of these, only 13 were convicted. In other words, the Government feels that it needs the repressive weight of a special law and order legislation to prosecute a few people each year, while violence and crime in increasing proportions go undetected by totally inadequate police forces and go unpunished. 
This Bill is a repressive Bill designed to silence the thinking section of our community. Does the Government expect us to believe that the matters which give rise to this Bill are more serious than our growing crime rate? Does the Government expect us to believe that we need new laws when our glaring deficiency at the moment is our inability to enforce existing laws? All Australia is concerned about the carnage on our roads, yet the Government has done nothing. It can spend valuable parliamentary time bringing down more Federal political laws, yet it is utterly unconcerned about road safety. The Government gives our pensioners a rise of 7c a day and then takes it all back from them by increasing telephone and postal charges. After 20 years in office the Government blames everybody but itself for the problems of rural Australia. What a record of insincerity, and it does not stop there. There are laws on our books that are in urgent need of reform, but the Government has refused to act. Not only has it refused to tackle this urgent problem of law reform but it has demonstrated over and over again that it has absolutely no hesitation in using these insidious Federal laws to its political advantage. 
Consider for a moment the Crimes Act. Amendments to this Act were rushed through Parliament in I960, as a matter of extreme urgency, to protect us from threats to our democratic way of life. The only use that has been made of this Act has been to limit the democratic rights of our public servants. Speaking about the rights of public servants the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  - the then Attorney-General and, strangely enough, now occupying the same position - in July 1969 said: 
I would say that probably a better formulation of the rule would be in more general terms and say that while a man remains in the Public Service he should not speak publicly about policies. 
However, it should be added that in almost every election since the Dawson by-election in 1966 the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association has protested at  Sir John  McEwen's use of senior officials of the Department of Trade and Industry to write political speeches and briefs while he was Minister for Trade and Industry. As recently as last September nobody in the Government raised any objections to the former Prime Minister's use of the Australian News and Information Bureau for blatant political purposes. 
It is obvious from these attitudes that the Government's application of the Crimes Act is restricted to those who would oppose its views. This is the sort of misuse of authority that brings the law into disrespect This is the sort of contemptuous use of power that brings Parliament into disrepute. It is hardly surprising then that this Government is perfectly happy with the National Service Act which for the first time in our history conscripts our youth to fight in an undeclared foreign war and for the first time in our history has put political prisoners in our gaols. Nor is it surprising that this Government is determined to continue to deny land right to our Aboriginals. Yet, with this record of insincerity, this Government has the audacity to proclaim itself as being dedicated to law and order. Its dedication,  Mr Speaker,  is both uninspiring and impotent. 
I submit that the true colours of this Government were nailed to the mast by the then Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  when he spoke at a seminar on constitutional development for New Guinea. The honourable gentleman was reported in the Age' of 31st August last year as saying: 
A Bill of Human Rights is in truth a statement of political slogans,  or  political principles. 
He said that he objected to a Bill of Rights with entrenched guarantees in a constitution because any legislation was examinable by the courts. In other words, this Government is opposed to any explicit expression of the bask human freedoms of opinion, of conscience, of movement and. especially important  m  this age, of privacy, because it believes that such expressions are merely political slogans. It forgets, of course, that really there were only political slogans in the Dark Ages when the people were oppressed by the unfettered exploitation of laissez-faire capitalism. It forgets, of course, that they are still only political slogans today for the coloured people of South Africa. The difference between the Government and the Labor Party is that, unlike the Government, the Labor Party is dedicated to bringing these political slogans into political realities. 
It is also worth noting that the Government appears to have no objections to the Australian Constitution, dedicated as it is to the protection of property, because it has done nothing about the recommendations for constitutional reform made by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Reform. Even when its esteemed Party colleague,  Sir Henry  Bolte, spectacularly joined the ranks of the dissenters and called for a referendum to update the Constitution it did nothing. We can only assume that Government supporters agree with their colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury),  who dis missed  Sir Henry's  plea for constitutional reform as a 'fatuous exercise'. 
How can the people of Australia accept the sincerity of this Government, a government opposed to any explicit definition of the rights of our people; a government committed to perpetuating all the inadequacies of our Constitution; a government that has done nothing to combat our rising crime rate; a government that is utterly unconcerned about our appalling road toll, a government that plays confidence tricks on our pensioners; a government that blames everybody but itself for the plight of rural Australia; a government that has shown itself not only to be opposed to law reform but also to have no hesitation in using both the law and the Public Service for its own political advantage? Surely,  Mr Speaker,  with this record the best that can be said about this Government is that its moral judgments are based on what it believes it can get away with. 
These are hardly the qualities we need in our champions of law and order. They are not even up to the standard of Pontius Pilate whose famous moral judgment at least was based on what he believed the people wanted. All the moral leaders in our community have criticised the National Service Act because it imprisons young men who refuse to fight in an undeclared foreign war that they believe to be immoral, unjust, dirty and repugnant. 
I am only saying, with respect,  Mr Speaker- 
I accept your guidance,  Mr Speaker.  Naturally, these outcries do not give the Government any moral problems because it has never displayed any inclinations other than that which it describes as the will of the majority. One suspects that this decay in the Government's moral fibre is what prompted  Sir Paul  Hasluck to point out in the 1968 Garran Oration: 
Some Ministers never glimpse the truth that the government of a nation is different from advancing the interests of half a nation. 
This Government, like its former AttorneyGeneral, is opposed to any explicit definition of basic human rights because such a definition would place limits on it. It is time that it was pointed out to this Government that there is a difference between democracy and the dictatorship of the majority. Until there is a government in this land that appreciates the depth and reality of this difference, the best Australia can hope for as regards law and order is the embodiment of the morality of a Pontius Pilate. While this Government remains in office all the great human values of tolerance, understanding and compassion, which are the only true bases for law and order, will remain merely political slogans. 
The tragedy of this debate,  Mr Speaker,  is that this Government has taken law and order, the dream of every civilised man through all of history, and reduced it, along with all other good intentions, to the squalid level of a political slogan, one that it picked up at, of all places, an impromptu cricket match at a suburban front door. The truth of the matter,  Mr Speaker,  is that this Government is so concerned with the dissent within its ranks, is so embarrassed by its close association with the Fascist policies of the racist governments of southern Africa, so confused by the shambles of its administration - as manifested in the Fill fiasco, the plight of our pensioners and the depression of rural Australia - and so terrified at the prospect of running out of Communists that it has become paranoically pre-occupied with its own survival. The depth of the despair of this pre-occupation is obvious in this Bill. It is a Bill that we do not need and one that every thinking Australian recognises as cynically irrelevant to all the great issues and problems of this time. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Because of the protests by the editor of the Melbourne published anti-Communist weekly and by many naturalised Australian citizens of Polish origin against the alleged action of the Polish Consulate in Australia in forbidding Polish travel agents in Australia to advertise in their newspapers, will the Government consider compensating publications which are victimised for printing facts to the best of their ability, in order to offset loss due to international trade sanctions? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot affordto hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provisions for - 1: The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Having regard to the Minister's announced consideration of forcing unions to conduct secret ballots before taking strike action I ask: Firstly, is the Minister also considering requiring Australian companies to conduct secret ballots among their shareholders prior to increasing the price of their products or restricting the supply of those products? Secondly, will the cost of secret ballots be met by the Commonwealth Government? 
I rise to support the amendment in condemnation of the Budget. As mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  this Budget is a declaration of war against the wage and salary earners. It is designed to create that pool of unemployed which members of the Liberal Party have always considered necessary, and to place the burdens of inflationary problems on the backs of the wage and salary earners and even the pensioners. Although many people who are dissatisfied with the Government's discharge of its responsibilities, both foreign and domestic, have described Australia mockingly as a quarry surrounded by an oil slick, in reference to the cynical sellout of this country's natural resources, the recent Australian nation-wide opinion poli seemed to indicate that most people agreed with  Mr Donald  Home's description of a few years ago that Australia is the lucky country. The poll showed that this country's biggest advantages were a good standard of living, a good climate and good business opportunities. There is no doubt that the good climate is a matter of luck, and perhaps a matter of opinion, although that might be disputed by those who would say that many of our people have taken advantage of the alleged good business opportunities to make a good standard of living and searched out a climate compatible with their interests. 
But there is a flaw in that kind of thinking. It is in the assumption that the existence of good business opportunities implies that all members of society can take advantage of such opportunities to raise themselves above the level of wage earners. In the classic statement of the Social Demo cratic view of equality R. H. Tawney demonstrated that in industrial society most men are destined to be life-long wage earners. He wrote: 
Though each is free to assume the risks and responsibilities of independent enterprise, what is possible for each, is not possible for ali. 
Tawney went on to say that the working man realises that well-being must be attained not as the result of personal advancement, but as a result of collective effort. 
The quintessence of Liberal philosophy - or perhaps we should skip the use of euphemism and say that the Government's rationale for the exploitation of man by man - has been revealed in every Budget it has brought down since 1949. This year we see increases in indirect and direct taxation, the former - the more immoral form - designed as it is to aggravate the plight of pensioners, and exacerbate the difficulties of those more than one million Australians living, according to reliable authorities, on the poverty line. There was a time not long past when people would not believe that so many were poverty stricken. Now everyone not only believes but also accepts the horrible fact with perfect equanimity. Consequently, with typical Liberal indifference, instead of budgeting to improve the lot of these forsaken people, this Government is budgeting to squeeze them a little more. 
During the debate on the income tax bill last year I was surprised to hear the then honourable member for Curtin, now the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  say: 
I think the tendency today is that there should be more indirect taxation so that the individual can make up his mind as to how he will spend his earnings.' 
The honourable member for Curtin seemed to be saying that he was agreeable that beer drinkers or, if you like, smokers should be taxed to meet the country's expenses or accept the alternative and give up those pleasures or opiates. I think it might be possible to get him to agree that that profit makers, or the rich, or the usurers should pay the expenses of the country or accept the alternative and give up avarice and the exploitation of their fellows. 
The indirect taxation imposed on people by medium of listener's and viewer's licences is a very nasty piece of work. For people in the lower income groups who never get an annual holiday and who never go to the pictures or the theatre, the wireless and television provide their only entertainment, and contact, with that which is new and novel. The purchase of a listener's and viewer's licence at a cost of $26.50 may not be a hardship for the worker on $80-odd a week. But who earns $80 or more a week? Recently I heard an interesting story on This Day Tonight', a television programme which I am told honourable members opposite view with less than approval. An estate agent related that a migrant family came to inquire about the purchase of a house. The family appeared reluctant to answer the agent's inquiry as to how much the family earned. So, he said, with reasonable tact: 'You would need a weekly income of about $80 to buy a house', to which the head of the family questioned: 'Does anyone in Australia earn $80 a week?'. 
Honourable members opposite will have no difficulty in answering the question of the head of that family. My colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  told them last October, when he presented to this House during the debate on the Income Tax Bill a table that he had prepared showing that, despite the assertions of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whithorn),  fewer than 20 per cent of Australian taxpayers earned more than $80 a week. In fact, for the vast majority of Australian wage earners a weekly wage of $80 would represent a princely sum, for they earn considerably less than that, and these are the people who are being taxed exceedingly by this Government. In Victoria, if a man earns much less than $80 a week, he cannot buy a house from the State Housing Commission. The truth is that more than half the wage earners in Victoria would be ineligible for such a house and would be condemned to live in a flat. This however is by the way. The point is that the people who are hardest hit by this Budget, are in that section or, if honourable members like, that socio-economic sector which has never had it very good, never had it easy and, under this Government, never will. 
I find great difficulty in believing that this Government is really interested in curbing inflation. It is interesting to note that, after the national wage case in 1970 when wages were increased by 6 per cent the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  warned of the danger of serious inflation and he predictably said that wage increases would bc to blame. He was giving credence to that nonsensical myth of the 'wage-price spiral' according to which wage increases cause price increases. The reality is that men cause wage increases, and men cause price increases - the former in search of justice and dignity for themselves and their families and the latter in search of dominance and privilege. 
To break this vicious chain, the less privileged are exhorted to exercise restraint and to hope that their hard work will be rewarded when productivity has increased and the iron laws of competition and supply and demand, acting independently of man, will bring prices down. There is no doubt that this Government serves the interests of big business and of privilege, although it would deny this and say it supports private initiative. There is no evidence that inflation affects big business and privilege adversely; indeed the converse is the case because both thrive on inflation. But not only the great corporations do well during period of inflation. Governments do pretty well also. While the people without power, the people whose faces reflect the many aspects of poverty, are urged to exercise restraint, and are castigated if they demand wage justice, the Government and the big corporations gain more revenue for the one and increased profits for the other. Why the privileged should expect the vast army of exploited to exercise restraint while they continue their self-indulgence is not difficulty to fathom. They see the working class as nature's philanthropists. 
If this Government is serious, why does it tolerate the fixing of prices by the big monopolies? Why, one can justly ask, does this Government permit the sale of goods at prices far above their real value? There is an abundance of evidence that in many industries such as iron, oil and cars, prices are much higher than the value of the goods. It is well known that many manufacturers have no competitors and that prices arc fixed not on the basis of competition or supply and demand but on the basis of cost plus, wherein the plus factor is determined by the maximum that the market can bear. 
This Government has fostered inflation as a means of reducing real wages. I am led to believe that it was none other than the inimitable Keynes who pointed out that a wage cut can be more easily achieved by increasing prices and that this method does not so readily arouse opposition as does a direct wage cut. But inflation has advantages for governments also. As a means of increasing taxation, inflation is without equal. In this regard one American economist whose name escapes me said: 'It makes a lot of people pay taxes whom the politicians are unwilling to tax'. For example, income tax rose from SI, 873m in 1963-64 to $4,052m in 1969-70, an increase of 116 per cent, whereas in the same period wages rose from $8, 795m to $1 5,504m, an increase of only 76 per cent. If this Budget has done anything, it has demonstrated once and for all that Australian society is not egalitarian. There are some Australians who have not yet grasped this important fact. 
More disturbing than that, however, is the revelation by this Budget that Australia is not even moving in the direction of an egalitarian society. The evidence for this is clearly revealed in this Government's education policy. There is no doubt that the members opposite are responsible in large measure for the inequalities and injustices which are now features of the general educational situation in Australia. In increasing the taxation concession for students, the Government is assisting one section of the community only, a section which is largely privileged, at the expense of those whose need is greater. There is no doubt that much of the money spent on education would be better spent laying good foundations for future scholastic success in the primary schools. 
Perhaps there is not much hope of these injustices being redressed. During the Christmas session of Parliament in one of our State legislatures  Sir Arthur  Rylah asked, in a matter concerning cruelty to children: 'How far must taxpayers be expected to go in looking after other people's children'? Ironically enough, this was said at a time when he was rather more than willing to look after other people's reading matter. However,  Sir Arthur  Rylah's question might be rephrased: 'How far should working class taxpayers be expected to deny their own children primary education in order to subsidise the secondary and tertiary education of those who can afford to pay fees of $400 a year or more?' It is not news to us that for every man, woman and child in Australia 1 in 7 or 13 per cent of our population is receiving a pension of one sort or another. These people pay indirect taxation, and it would be interesting to know exactly how much. I would not be surprised to learn that the pensioner component in our society paid proportionally more in taxation one way or another than any other section. Such is the cynicism of the Government towards those who are without power in this country. This is the sickness of our country. Those who are powerless enjoy few of the fruits when they are abundant and are denied proportionately more when they are scarce. 
A pensioner couple in my electorate who will now receive a pension of $30.50 can expect to pay increased taxes in the form of Council and Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works rates, apart from other inevitable increases. I know of several instances in my electorate of Batman where elderly citizens who have served this country well and by dint of hard work and thrift have managed . to buy their homes are now placed in the undignified position of being unable to pay their rates without reducing their living standard below the poverty line, and are thus deprived of the confidence necessary for properly adjusted living. If this Government is concerned about the well being of the people of this country, and not only of the well to do, then it should maintain real wages by pegging prices with proper price controls, reduce taxes on lower incomes, lower local government rates and taxes, and improve and extend social services. If we are to move towards an egalitarian society these reforms are necessary now. This Government must redistribute the nation's wealth. It has made no attempt to do so in the Budget. It is therefore to be condemned. 
I address a question to  the Treasurer on the exemption of local authorities from payroll tax.  His  predecessor told me in a written reply on 30th October last that it is not possible to assess the effect on local authority rates and charges of the payment by such authorities of payroll tax because, if local authorities were to be exempted from payroll tax, this could lead to (a) a reduction in the rates and/or charges; (b) an increase in local authority expenditure; (c) a reduction in financial assistance provided to local authorities by State governments; or (d) a combination of (a), (b) and (c). I now ask the honourable gentleman whether he himself is now in a better position than his predecessor to say how council rates and charges will be affected by exempting the authorities from payroll tax. 
I support the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who has raised this matter of public importance, on the need to create a joint Commonwealth-State planning and development commission as an urgent and desperate need. I might add that it is quite obvious from the remarks of the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  that he has -some fear about Socialism. It is a typical fear expressed by a person who has been an estate agent for many years. It is obvious that there is no relationship or co-operation between States or between States and the Commonwealth in regard to housing requirements. It is impossible to consider housing fully without considering the question of the use and price of land. This demand for land arises from the basic human need for the family to have a decent place in which to live. It is a predictable and growing demand because the struggle for a house of his own is a peculiarly Australian characteristic which the Australian Labor Party fully endorses but which is something that this Government allows land developers ruthlessly to exploit. In the Melbourne Age' on 19th May 1970  Sir Henry  Bolte, the redoubtable Premier of Victoria, in reply to a question said: 
The quality of life! It's peace of mind based on the home and the garden.' 
There is no doubt that a house of one's own, on a piece of ground, is not an unreasonable ambition of most Australians. But what hope do today's young people have of realising that ambition? They have about as much hope as they might have had in Governor Phillip's day. He, honourable members might recall, in a famous dispatch sent to Lord Sydney proposed: The land will be granted with a clause that will ever prevent more than one house being built on the allotment, which will be 60 ft in front and 150 ft in depth*. As it happened this suggestion was ignored, just as the requests by our young workers for a bit of this vast continent on which to build a house are being ignored today. The young people of today have very little hope of enjoying a house and garden. 
We are told that the average income in the community is now about $4,000 per annum, but in truth the majority of wage earners - about 70 per cent or more - earn considerably less than this. But there are not many blocks of land around Melbourne which this sum of money could buy. There is, however, land available at Werribee, near a sewage farm, about 30 miles from Melbourne that can be bought at about this price. Building blocks, selling for about $8,000 may be purchased at Heathmont, Bundoora and Sunshine. They are priced at twice the annual average gross income, and three times1 the annual income of the vast majority of Australian wage earners. Land presently being sold at Strathmore Heights and Waverley at prices in the vicinity of $12,000 is probably being bought at great sacrifice to the purchasers unless, of course, like land purchase at Kew, they have virtually unlimited access to future incomes. The situation is the same throughout the rest of Australia. It can be seen, that a young married couple on an income of $60 or $70 weekly, can be demoralised completely by the outrageously high prices being paid for a bit of ground on which to build a house, and the dreams and. expectations so much a part of home ownership. 
The situation that the average struggling Australian faces today is that the lowest price he has to pay for a block of land in an urban area represents 1 year's gross income or more, if he wishes to enjoy the benefits of urban living in areas far removed from basic services. If he wishes to enjoy the benefits of urban living, combined with amenities and services considered basic by the general consensus, he has to pay 3 or 4 times his gross annual income. These prices do not include the high interest charges which are fixed by this Government and which are inevitably forced on the average land buyer because his income is not enough to enable him to -accumulate enough capital to have a house of his own in which to rear his family. 
Land prices can be, and are, affected by supply and demand, private ownership and public decisions. The supply of land for home construction for Australian families is not unlimited. The land must be serviced with transport, it must be serviced with electricity and gas, and it must have easy access to community services such as shops, schools and hospitals. But even these services are not enough today, if the areas to be opened up are to provide a standard of life comparable with Canberra, for example. As I said earlier on, the demand for land is predictable. It is predictable because nearly everyone in this country wants to have a home of his own on a block of land. It is a desire that the Australian Labor Party supports, but which this Government allows land developers to ruthlessly exploit. It does this by enabling land developers to take advantage of rural land dodges, whereby they can buy land in sufficiently large quantities and to hold it long enough to make a very rewarding profit on selling. 
The depredations made on the Australian public by the land boomers in the 1880s and 1890s make unsavoury reading. The fact that many of Australia's largest, wealthiest and best-known families established their fortunes in these deals is a constant reminder of the excesses of the developers of those days. Some events in Melbourne not so long ago revealed that the land boomers' practice of buying land soon to be acquired for Government purposes is still extant. One wonders whether the time to hold an inquiry into the land development industry is not overripe. The Opposition, of course, believes in the public ownership of land. There is no doubt that the Australian people would support a move by the Government to retain all land now in public ownership, to progressively acquire the land held in private ownership and to develop it on a leasehold basis. The only people who would be unduly perturbed by such a move would be the land boomers and the speculators in land. 
The average householder is satisfied to enjoy the use value of his land and ' the security it offers and,- in general, he cares little for its exchange value. The reason for this is simple. Since the war, so much land has been forcibly resumed for social reasons that the householder is well aware of the temporary nature of his possession. lt is becoming increasingly apparent that Government decisions put profits into the hands of the developers. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  tells us, in his Fabian pamphlet 'What We Can Do', that Government investment in transport, roads, sewers and schools makes land valuable. He tells us that we should follow the example of a number of other countries, where privately-owned raw land is purchased by public development corporations, similar to the National Capital Development Commission in Canberra, which then develop the land and lease it to home buyers. This practice ensures that the benefit of public investment is not reaped by rapacious speculators. 
This practice is, of course, better than the striking of betterment charges, favoured by some authorities, to recoup some of the unearned increment in property values as a result of public actions. The Australian people want to have their own houses in their own gardens. They want to enjoy the multitude of activities that houses and gardens make possible. They want the privacy and the community that is not possible in flat life, - in high density living - unless we equate loneliness with privacy, and being an anonymous face in the street/with community. 
If we are to satisfy this reasonable demand of the Australian people, as a first step we must acquire the land and develop it on a leasehold basis. The question is not whether the supply of land should be regulated - it is already regulated by public decision - rather the question is to whose advantage should it be regulated. This Government permits the supply of land to be regulated by public decision, to the advantage of the developer and to the cost of the average Australian. For the benefit of the Australian people the Commonwealth Government should undertake responsibility for national planning and development, and for this purpose should set up a Commonwealth planning and development authority. The Australian Labor Party would do so. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of intended recipients of the proposed wool subsidy could be expected to receive taxable incomes $500 per annum or more, lower than the average for the wool growing community. 
What percentage of the subsidy could these people be expected to receive. 
On what basis will the subsidy be distributed. 
I ask the Prime Minister: What action does the Government anticipate taking in response to hundreds of letters received by honourable members, including one I have received from a child which asks me to tell the Government that some people in Australia are starving themselves because the Government is not sending enough money to the refugees in Pakistan? Does the right honourable gentleman agree that the rapidly growing political maturity being shown by Australian students calls for an early reduction in the voting age? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister, although it should concern the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Education and Science. I ask the right honourable gentleman: What would be his response to a letter from a very gravely concerned young school pupil, which reads: 
Dear  Mr Garrick,  Please tell the Government some people in Australia are starving themselves because it is not sending enough money-- 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugeesto at least$5m immediately, even if this entails reduced spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least 10 million dollars immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament asembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
that death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
that, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Australian Government take steps to offer employment, at least on a temporary basis, and in order to effect some relief, to academic and qualified persons among the persons from Bangla Desh. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petion  received. 
In the interests of world peace I ask the Acting Prime Minister: What action is the Government taking to reduce the supply of arms from outside sources which is bolstering the military junta in Pakistan? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27) per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 47 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefitslist. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; 
200,000 students from universities, colleges of advanced education and other tertiary institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968; 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. What action has the Government taken following the reported arrest and imprisonment of an Australian citizen, without charges being laid, in South Africa? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 274 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  lt is readily apparent that this Bill expresses without inhibition the Government's cavalier attitude towards the human housing needs of what 'he Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  describes as persons of low or moderate means. These people of course do much of the toil to create much of the wealth of this nation. There was a time when the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement was the hope not only of persons of low or moderate means, whatever (hat might mean objectively, but also of the well to do members of this nation who give this Government much of its electoral support. These latter believed that man's nature is not only immutable but also such that the naked and unshamed pursuit of private profit is the mechanism which brings about social evolution and historical change. But of course those who have done well under the system have some doubts, so their guilt is salved by their expression of noblesse oblige. So while engaging in the unbridled pursuit of private profit, they are sometimes benevolent enough to regret the socially necessary hardships that the pursuit of private profit imposes on so many of our people. 
It is little wonder then that the Minister panders to the consciousness of these benevolent souls when he says in his second reading speech: 
We believe that the Commonwealth should continue to assist the States to provide housing for persons of low or moderate means. 
This sentence should properly be expressed: 'We believe that the Commonwealth should continue to do as little as we have been doing to provide housing for persons of low or moderate means'. In his following sentences he says: 
But the assistance should be provided in  a  different but more readily identifiable form, so that the amount of benefit being provided can be seen by all. 
The meaning of these sentences is that the more things change the more they are the same, and that the purpose of the change is merely to make that which is rotten appear beneficial. Instead of trying to make things seem different or better than they are, the Commonwealth Government, should use its abundant powers to take positive action lo ensure that the basic human needs of a house on a piece of ground should be the right of all. No one would want to make it obligatory for everyone to live in a house, but there are more than a few who are making it obligatory for the low income earners to live in a high rise fla'. It is sad that all too often the human need for basic accommodation results in people accepting with gratitude a flat in a 20-storey high rise vertical filing cabinet. Beggars cannot be choosers. And the hope of self-actualised, autonomous life in the privacy of a place of their own in a garden of their own is dashed. The majority of people who live in them would prefer not to live in these 20-storey abominations. 
There is no doubt that their existence can be attributed, firstly, to the needs of the central business district. This is clearly an instance of persons being used to satisfy the demands of a human creation. It is one of the forms of 20th century human sacrifice. Secondly, it can be a attributed to the need to reduce the demand for housing. Most public servants are dedicated decent persons devoted to their jobs. However, they are condemned for good or ill to act within a given context. Consequently, it does seem that they have no choice but to abstract a demand lor housing from a demand from human being for houses to bring up children, and in which to enjoy a private lite. Thirdly, it can be attributed to the needs of technocrats to test their ability. It is only human that our technocrats would want to test their abilities. While it is not particularly human for one section to satisfy its vanities at the expense of those who are powerless, it is disgusting that politicians, who by definition are people oriented should permit them to do so. 
Why the Government has neither encouraged nor demanded of the States experimentation in the design of low cost housing to allow for the changing needs of families amazes me. But of course it does not surprise me. It may have escaped the notice of the Government that less than half a century ago a 2-bedroom villa, with perhaps an enclosed front verandah, satisfied the needs of most families. This is not the case today. The demand is for much greater variation to meet the demands of the various members of the family, even though families have decreased in size. These needs apply to the families of low income earners also. This Bill offers no evidence that the government is aware that families are not standardised, lt appears to be totally unaware that low income housing, more than any other, should provide for flexibility of use. The Government has been equally tardy in encouragement or demand upon the States for experimentation in the areas of construction methods, and in materials used. Of course the building industry appears to be very conservative in matters of design and materials. 
Even people without long memories will readily appreciate that new developments in the building industry meet with prejudice. There are plenty of people who without considering the merits, if any, of concrete, or plastic, or steel sheet houses, will condemn them out of hand in favour of brick veneer constructions. Yet it is not so many years since people of equal wisdom gratuitously disparaged brick veneer houses, affirming that they would not stand up in a strong wind. Perhaps Australia's building industry has not recovered from the tumult and the fury that ushered in the brick veneer, and for that reason the Government may not be prepared to encourage experimentation. But whatever the reason for its reluctance, we are not prepared to say that to know all is to forgive all. The Government has a responsibility to provide houses for our people - houses which will enable them to live a good life. Therefore it should demand that houses be designed which meet people's needs. 
The Commonwealth has the power to lay down the conditions under which it makes funds available to the various State housing authorities. In one sense it has played a positive role in ensuring that the Victorian Housing Commission makes available public housing for those on low incomes. However, the Victorian Housing Commission has been doing this in the inner areas of Melbourne in a totally unacceptable way. It has in many instances, with a terrible heartlessness, deprived low income groups of houses which they did not want to part with, so much so, that as recently as August of this year, no fewer than 250 residents of Fitzroy which is in my electorate marched in protest into the Brooks Crescent area, where the Commission was attempting to have a demolition order placed on the street so that the houses could be torn down to make way for another high-rise ant-hill; in answer to the demand for more houses. One of the residents pointed out to the protesters that it was ironical and incongruous that potentially good houses should be pulled down against the wishes of the owners to make way for flats. 
The Commonwealth should insist on some money being made available for the renovation of houses in a state of disrepair. It has failed to respond to the needs of people for funds to renovate existing houses. Many people presently residing in the inner suburbs have made clear their satisfaction with their houses, in every particular but one, namely, their need for renovation. As we travel through these areas, we see evidence of successful renovation. But also we see the results of brave attempts which have ended in failure. While in many instances the failures result from lack of informed knowledge, they frequently result from too little money being available to do the renovation properly. On the basis of any cost-benefit equation there are excellent grounds for the Government to insist that a large sum be made available to house owners or purchasers for renovation at low interest. Furthermore, failure to take steps to ensure that funds are made available for renovation, encourages the Victorian Housing Commission to press on with its wanton destruction of what is potentially good living accommodation for accommodation which is less conducive to the good life. 
Consider the variety and diversity that renovation would preserve, not only for the sake of keeping things because they are old. hut also keeping them for the good effect that variety and diversity have on the imaginations, not only of adults, but also of the children growing up in the community. In the inner suburban areas which are part of my electorate are uninteresting land masses which nature has left unadorned, but also which man in his buildings has made, if not beautiful to the trained eye, at least exciting and entertaining to those who enjoy novelty and variety. Here we can see Californian bungalows. Spanish mission houses, Queen Anne houses with their broken picturesque roofs, with False gables and frilled ridges, 'boom' style houses with their slate roofs hidden behind stucco balustered parapets, and the Italian influence in houses with their proud slate roofs, and iron porches with cast iron lace. There are a mixture of these, with factories of various sorts and sizes, of churches with a gothic touch, and others displaying a Norman style, while a few are modern, and shops whose purposes and styles are as varied and seemingly unconnected as its houses, gives the community a vitality that 1 regret is being undermined by uncertainty about the future. 
Many of the residents do not care about this community. They see it as a mess of old run down houses and they will sell out for flat development, which also will add to the variety of the community. But many are prepared to hold fast to that which they have, even at some cost for renovation, and this Government should ensure that they are assisted to do just that, lt is worth comment here that the Minister's predecessor. Dame Annabelle Rankin, on the occasion of an address to the building and construction forum in Melbourne on 29th September last year said that factory production of homes might well accelerate by the late 1970s to satisfy anticipated growth which the skilled building labour force might not be able to meet. While not particularly relevant to this matter. I should just like to say in passing that the former Minister's observation that the skilled building labour force might noi he able to satisfy the anticipated growth will not prove to be the reason for factory production, rather than the fact that fewer and fewer skills are now required as a result of the division of labour and the growth of technology. 
The relevant aspect of Dame Annabelle's observation is the recognition that the factory production of houses is not far off. She evidently forgot that factory production of houses is old hat in th:s country. There are numerous steel houses, built during the Chifley Governm nt period of office, much to the chagrin of the conservative elements of the building industry, and of course there is the Victorian Housing Commission's Holmesglen factory for the production of concrete houses. I believe that this factory previous y employed 400 men but now has only 80 on its staff. Members will know that the Victorian Housing Commission's prefabricated concrete factory at Holmesglen, is the only war-time munitions factory in Victoria which has been converted to a peace-time use. This factory's activities should be extended. This Government should insist that the Holmesglen enterprise should not only be extended to provide low cost housing, but should also be permitted to compete with private enterprise in all aspects of building. It also should be permitted to make and sei] concrete housing components under contract to speculative builders and retail outlets. As a building material, concrete is as good as the best, and better than most. Given a free hand there is no doubt that the Holmesglen factory- could do much to provide late 20th century housing for Australians. 
Only myopic vision and lack of openness to the future - not constitutional impediment - prevents this Government from insisting on the States doing the following: Firstly, extending the Holmesglen prefabricated concrete factory's activities to include competition with speculative bi,i.d:rs; secondly, ensuring that provision is made for expert advice and the granting of loans for the renovation of houses in the inner suburbs; and, thirdly, taking positive steps to ensure that low income houses, which inevitably are small, have sufficient inbuilt flexibility of design to  m?2i  the changing needs of families. While I cannot speak with authority about the qualities of the other State housing authorities, there is no doubt that the Victorian Housing Commission is a much better body than its public image would suggest. Instead of being blamed for the shortcomings in the policies of both the Commonwealth and State Governments in meeting the immediate needs of thousands of Australians, the Commonwealth should insist on its being given a chance to prove itself. The policies should be changed along the lines I have suggested. 
Referring again to Dame Annabelle's address to the building and construction forum in September of last year, I would draw honourable members' attention to her intention to ask the States to use more of the Commonwealth advances for housing needy families on the lowest income scales. One should have thought that the proper policy for the Government to pursue in this regard would be one of suggesting initiatives along the lines I have suggested which would enable the States to make better use of existing resources on the one hand, and on the other hand should more than that be required - more than that is required - the Government should make funds available. The responsibility for ensuring that every Australian is housed as a member of an affluent society in the latter third of the 20th century is a Commonwealth responsibility. Only the Commonwealth Government has the powers to ensure that families are raised in an environment that does not place strains on the other needs of the families. We do not want a situation wherein the whole family has to go to work to pay for a house. I regret that this is a position that pertains in far too many families in my electorate. The grants being offered to the States under this Bill are insufficient to do that which should be done. But worse, this Bill and the Minister's second reading speech make explicit the Government's failure to recognise the enormity of the problem that confronts a low income family. The Minister said: 
Advances under the housing agreements with the States have been used to provide reasonablypriced rental accommodation for low income families and to assist these families to own their own homes by the offer of low-deposit long term loans at a concessional rate of interest. 
While I would not like to see the rule applied very rigidly, and would agree that a slightly ambiguous wording does give room for negotiation, I would like lo know precisely what is meant by 'low income family', because in my own State a person who docs not earn considerably above the minimum wage is not considered as a purchaser, as he cannot afford under the prevailing conditions to make the purchase repayments. Furthermore, many people who are experiencing great difficulty in making ends meet are considered to be earning too much to qualify for a housing commission house. 
The Minister cannot justify his Government's indifference to the plight of low income earners. He may rationalise, of course. It looks good to say that provision is made for low income earners. One of the Minister's stated reasons for altering the existing arrangements is to make the Government's inhuman policy look good. But analysis shows that this Bill sets out cynically to hoodwink those whose interest in the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is cursory. It certainly cannot hoodwink those thousands of families anxiously awaiting a place of their own. 
The Government's concern for low income earners should be expressed through its willingness to ensure th-tt no annual repayment exceeds one-fifth of the purchaser's annual wage, and that the interest rate does not exceed 3 per cent. In the sentence which follows the one I have just quoted, the Minister says: 
We believe that the Commonwealth should continue to assist the Slates to provide housing for persons of low or moderate means . . . 
He does not say whether this housing should take the form of flat units or villas. The Minister's silence in this regard I consider ominous for the expectations of many low income earners. 
Tt  is not unlikely that there will be a reduction in the numbers of houses built for sale to low income earners, and  it  is certain that there will be a rise in rents. No lesser authority than the Minister for Housing in the Victorian State Parliament was reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' not so many days ago as saying that housing rents and repayment instalments could rise under the terms of this Bill. In '.he Parliament of that State, in referring to the rental assistance grant, he said: i  feel  i  should point out to the House that whilst the $331,000 per annum to be received by Victoria is welcome, it should be realised that last year the cost of rebated rentals to this State was $1,834,030, and, if my forecast that loan applications and rentals must increase is realised, this cost to the State will certainly increase. We would have hoped that the new Minister for Housing in the Federal Parliament would have ushered in a new deal in housing. Regrettably, this was not to be. What we have is the same nondescript wine in new bottles. The Minister has ignored a fundamental truth, which was expressed at the building and construction forum last year: 
We cannot hope to eliminate poverty, or to derive full benefit from improved health and education services without making proper provision for housing. lt is hypocritical for us to celebrate national affluence and prosperity while so many Australians are so wretchedly ill-housed, or so impoverished by Hie cost of housing. 
Proper housing for all is the foundation and prerequisite of genuine national prosperity.' 
The Government makes no insistence in this Bill, despite its undoubted powers to do so; to really tackle the housing problems of this nation. Its genuine concern in this matter would have been expressed in the demand that provision be made for the extension of the activities of the Holmesglen factory; the provision for advice and loans for the renovation of houses; and the insistence on experimentation to ensure flexibility of accommodation in low cost housing. Its failure to do so condemns it as a government and renders this Bill unimaginative, archaic, and inadequate. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some 9 million East Pakistan refugees that have crossed the border into India. Also they are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worse off than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation nutrition and child family problems ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by farthe greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinet be called to provide $10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan, and further $50m over 3 years to help rehabilitate the refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will  ever  pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the University of Western Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the increase in tertiary education fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for  a  significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs' are  a  formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
That the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority: 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships. 2.. Commonwealth Scholarships on the basis of need rather than academic ability. 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Have Australian soldiers (a) been actively engaged in military activities on both sides of the Thai-Malaysian border, (b) been engaged in reconnaissance patrols into Thailand and (c) suffered deaths in actions against other forces in northern Malaysia and Thailand during the last 18 months. 
If so, how many soldiers have been killed or wounded in (a) northern Malaysia and (b) Thailand during the last 18 months, in how many actions and when. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact, as reported in the 'Northcote Leader' newspaper on Tuesday 15th February, that the Minister has banned the release of the number of job vacancies in specific localities and the number of unemployed in specific localities? If so, what is the reason for shrouding this vital information in secrecy? I further ask the Minister: Will he supply me with the number of job vacancies in the Heidelberg, Northcote, Collingwood and Fitzroy municipalities and also the number of unemployed in those localities? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads:'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that  of  other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general actitivies which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right- to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person- languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration who represents the Minister for Health in this chamber. Since the level of observance of the most common fee for general practitioner surgery consultations ranges from 88 per cent in South Australia and Western Australia to only 52 per cent in New South Wales, I ask: Does the Government consider that the GP fees are adequately covered by Commonwealth and benefit fund rebates? As the situation is even worse for home visits, when does the Government intend to act, or can the community expect to continue to meet the cost of these visits largely by direct payment until there is a change of government? 
asked the Minister for 
Labour  and National Service, upon notice: 
How many young men called up for national service have refused to co-operate. 
How many of these have been arrested and gaoled. 
Who authorises the selection of these men for arrest and prosecution. 
If he authorises this selection, on what grounds and by what method is the selection made. 
If the Commonwealth Police are allowed to use their discretion, does this mean that they are making political decisions and he is abdicating his ministerial responsibility to the Parliament and to the community. 
Does the Minister for Labour and National Service recall asserting last week that the number of man hours lost last year in industrial disputes was staggering? Will he agree that fewer man hours were lost through industrial disputes than through unemployment or industrial accidents? Will he condemn, with the same vehemence as he condemns industrial disputes, Budget strategies geared to the creation of pools of unemployment and employers so indifferent to industrial safety that at a recent National Safety Council seminar only 40 of 2,000 employers invited is fact attended? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that there are now 50 per cent more handicapped children at the Mount Eliza Special School in Victoria than the school was designed to accommodate? Is he aware that the school has less than a third of its proper complement of speech therapists and physiotherapists and that 7 teachers are applicants for workers' compensation following back injuries sustained carrying out the duties of auxiliary staff? Can he say whether these conditions are general throughout Australian schools for handicapped children? Can he say which recommendations for the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on mentally and physically handicapped children have been accepted by the Government and when these recommendations win be given effect to? 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Why was the  Dr Germaine  Greer debate withdrawn from television. 
As public money was expended on the programme, will it be made available to a commercial channel which requested it. 
Was  Dr Greer's  part of the debate broadcast by,3AR inFact and Opinion' and was question time advertised for the following week. 
Was the advertised programme cancelled but  Dr Greer's  opponents called to the studio to refute her in her absence. 
If so, why was the question programme withdrawn after being advertised and at whose request. 
The speakers on the Government side who have taken part in this debate have spent most of their time attacking a Bill which was presented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  instead of defending the Bill which is now before the House. Quite obviously the reason for this is that the Bill presented by this Government is completely indefensible. The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  proved the Government's insincerity by expressing the fear that people may come from some other country, reside in Australia for a period of 12 months and then leave Australia with a pension. He knows that this is completely impossible and is a complete paradox because the Government's own law demands that an immigrant reside in Australia for at least 10 years before he becomes eligible for a pension. But he is not eligible for portability rights until he has resided here for 20 years whereas a resident of Australia, if this Bill is passed, will be eligible to go overseas at any time and take his pension with him. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  which seeks to insert the following words: 
Whilst not opposing the provisions of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Bill should provide for the continuation of the payment of pensions and other benefits after a period of 10 year's residence in Australia irrespective of any agreement between Australia and the current place of residence. 
I must confess that I listened to the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  with high hopes and great expectations that the Minister would introduce a piece of legislation that reflected the reputation that he enjoys in some benighted areas as a great humanitarian. However my expectations and hopes were dashed when he revealed himself to be, as I had intuitively known, a pedestrian thinker and no great shakes as an innovator. In his opening remarks the Minister examined the events which he said led up to the introduction of this infamous Bill. He said: 
The matter had been under consideration for some time before. In December 1969, an interdepartmental committee was set up to examine the complex issues involved. The report of that committee came to hand last November. In December I made my detailed recommendation to Cabinet and this was approved in January. Immediately afterwards the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made a public announcement of the Government's intention. 
In this passage the Minister does not describe the sequence of events which led to the presentation of his Bill. He merely related the process of mystification whereby he hoped to persuade the Australian community that the Government had a genuine concern for the people who had worked hard to create this country's wealth and whose reasonable hope was to enjoy their retirement in the country of their birth. He referred pompously to the great complex issues involved in the granting of these pensions. Is the Minister honestly and sincerely of the opinion that the electorate will believe that a simple matter can be made complex and difficult merely by naming the matter difficult and complex? If there is any complexity and difficulty in continuing pensions already granted, it is administrative and administrative only. The more the Government speaks out on this issue the more obvious it becomes that this Bill is merely a mirage intended to mislead our migrant community and other deserving Australian citizens who are thirsting in this Government's dry, barren desert of social services. The Government has introduced this Bill because it is afraid of the outraged voices of the migrant community, whose legitimate demands through the correct channels it has for  so  long ignored. The Government's action reminds me of the words of T. S. Eliot: 
The last temptation is the greatest treason, To do the right thing for the wrong reason. 
But of course the Government is not doing the right thing; it is dissembling. It is attempting to persuade people that it is belatedly granting them their just entitlement, while it has no intention of doing that. The proof that the Government is not acting in good faith is implicitly but nonetheless clearly stated in the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
The Bill now before us provides that the Minister may enter into an agreement with other countries, which, while any such agreement is in force, become 'participating countries'. The pensions with which the Bill deals may be paid to Australian pensioners who go to reside, whether permanently or temporarily in those other countries, or who are travelling with reasonable expedition between them and Australia, or, indeed between any 2 participating countries. 
In this passage the Minister tells us that should portable pensions become a reality Australians also may enjoy the benefits. One would like to know why they have not always done so. The real issue, surely, is the need to introduce these pensions quickly for those whose real need is now. If the Government has a genuine interest in introducing these measures to permit the portability of pensions overseas, why has it made them conditional on the conclusion of reciprocal agreements with other governments? By all means obtain the greatest possible benefits for those people already resident here. They should have nothing to do with reciprocal agreements with other countries. We could have a situation in which the people of perhaps Turkey and Italy could take their pensions home to their birth places, whereas those from Spain, Lebanon and Greece could not. In view of the fact that it has been shown that the Australian community would show no financial loss as a result of the unilateral introduction of portability of pensions, because of the savings in pension concessions presently made by transport, housing, medical and hospital authorities - concessions which pensioners receive if they stay in this country, but which they will not take with them when moving overseas - could we not agree that there was some substance in the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in this House recently? On that occasion the honourable member said: 
The Minister and the Government he represents have a complete contempt for immigrants. What they want is people coming to Australia, doing the hard work, taking the labouring jobs, doing  the  dirty work, keeping quiet, and voting for the Liberal Party. 
The Minister said that the Government had 3 considerations in mind when drafting the Bill. The first was to ensure that the benefits of portability were available to all Australian pensioners, whether they were Australian citizens or not. If this is true there can be no doubt that the Minister and the Government deserve praise for their sentiments. But of course it is not true. If this Bill is passed in its present state unamended there is no doubt that during the next few years the beneficiaries will be Australian citizens only. The very fact that the primary condition of portability of pensions demands the alteration of the legislation of participating countries guarantees this result. 
The second consideration of which the Government was mindful, according to the Minister, was the need to ensure in negotiation that migrants from other countries received the greatest possible reciprocal benefits from their countries. I am astounded by this revelation, because what the Minister is saying is that his Government is quite prepared to deny justice to some members of this community to gain justice for some members who are owed justice by another community. To have such a cavalier attitude towards the rights of those who have earned their Australian pensions and have received less than justice all their lives is surely the mark of one who has scant regard for the welfare of migrants or pensioners. Let us be sure and understand that it is migrants and pensioners about whom we are talking when we discuss this Bill. It probably sounded good and pleasing to the ear of the Minister when he said: 
But I can give an unequivocal assurance to these former residents of other countries who are now living amongst us that in my negotiations with their former homeland 1 will press their interest to the uttermost. 
Why did he not add to his final sentence these words: 'By withholding the pensions of those citizens of that homeland who worked so hard in this country but wanted to die in their own.' lt is a terrible thing that the Government intends to do. It intends to use the pension rights of persons who intend to return to their homelands to win pension rights from the homeland of pensioners who have come to Australia. Why did the Government not negotiate pension agreements during the period when our need of people was matched by the needs of many countries to send their people around the world to wherever work was to be found? 
The third consideration of the Government, the Minister said, was the need to protect the Australian taxpayer against abuse of the new provisions by persons who might come to Australia at some future time for the express purpose of taking advantage of these concessions. The Minister's concern for the Australian taxpayer is laudable. But which Australian taxpayer are he and his Government concerned about? Surely the persons who will take advantage of the portability of pensions were taxpayers, and surely if they worked in the hardest jobs they contributed a good deal more to the national purse than did taxpayers in other categories of work. Does the Minister believe that these people should be denied their portable pensions because some unscrupulous persons might not have pulled their weight? Surely it is better that some people get more than they deserve than that the great majority are denied justice. The Government should support the principle that old age pensions are the right of those who are elderly, and their payment should not be tied to the place of residence of the recipient, nor should they be dependent upon the conclusion of reciprocal agreements with other countries before they can be permitted to take effect. A Labor government would remove these injustices and anomalies. 
Did the Prime Minister during a Channel 7 interview on 20th August, when discussing foreign takeovers, say: T don't like these takeovers' and that 'laws may soon be introduced to curb foreign takeovers?' If so, how does the right honourable gentleman reconcile this statement with the Government's action of allowing the pink pages advertising contract to be taken away from a wholly owned Australian company and given to an American company - an act which will cause much hardship and unemployment to many Australian workers? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Did the Minister say at a Perth seminar in a statement titled 'Exports for Thinking Executives' that the Government's attempts to curtail cost inflation in 1972 had been jeopardised by a strategically planned attack on industry by organised labour, firstly, on high capitalintensive industries for a 35-hour week and, secondly, on high labour-intensive industries based on the flow-on tactic? Did the Minister then state that many of these capitalintensive industries are dominated by international corporations and emphasise that the Government expected these international corporations to resist the demand for a 35-hour week? If so, does the Minister consider that Australia's national interests are being served by his encouragement of foreign firms to attack the legitimate demands of Australian workers in protection of their jobs, and what action is the 
Minister considering against those firms which have budgeted in anticipation of increased wage costs? 
I support the amendment because I agree with these remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam): 
The Treasurer's typical Australian is a ratepayer. Increasingly, he and his family depend on local government to provide a whole new range of basic services in health, welfare, sport, culture and recreation. Yet this Budget once again - like every Liberal Budget for the past 23 years - ignores the role of local government and ignores the national government's direct responsibility for local government. 
I support the amendment because I consider that local government is as much a part of the Australian governmental structure as State and Federal governments, that local government should be recognised as an equal partner in the structure of Australian government, and finally, that a proper and adequate sewerage system, a proper and adequate water supply, and proper and adequate transport are in fact national needs. 
I speak with some knowledge of the needs of local government, for I have twice been mayor of an inner suburban city, and for 8 years I have been a commissioner of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works which is, of course, the authority responsible for water supply, sewerage and draining works within the metropolitan area of Melbourne. People in local government, being closer to the needs of the people, are well aware of the ill effects of this Government's shortsightedness. I am certain that there are few better illustrations of the extent to which this LiberalCountry Party Government has lost touch with the needs of the Australian people than its utter contempt and complete disregard for the problems of our cities. 
My electorate of Batman is one of the bigger electorates, having a population of more than 115,000 people and including parts of 4 of our oldest cities, namely. Collingwood, Northcote, Fitzroy and Heidelberg. While it may be considered that in an inner suburban municipality, such as the city of Northcote with very little of its 4,200 acres undeveloped, there would be no call for further major capital expenditure by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, this in reality is not so. In fact, in the north-eastern section of the city, only 4 miles from Melbourne, there is a partially developed industrial area containing a most modern industrial complex in which over 400 people spend, on average, half their working day. This area is not sewered but is served by a stinking, smelly pan system, which is located right alongside a modern technical school. In deference to the economic climate of our nation I will refrain from stating what sort of foodstuffs are handled in this particular industrial complex. Representations made to the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works for the provision of sewerage facilities in the area have been unsuccessful, due primarily to lack of finance. 
But more than this, throughout the inner suburban city of Northcote, quite extensive residential redevelopment is taking place, and in consequence some replacement of existing sewers, water mains, and drainage facilities may be expected. One wonders whether these replacements will not be effected because of lack of finance. There is still a backlog throughout the metropolis of 90,000 properties still unsewered due to insufficient funds. 
Let me mention another problem, not of this municipality's making, which confronts its councillors and administrators. This municipality is bounded by the Yarra River, Darebin Creek, and Merri Creek, and these are adversely affected by reason of unsewered outer areas. Consequently, it does not surprise me, though it may surprise some honourable members of the other side of this House, that more and more councils and more and more ratepayers are becoming disenchanted with this Government, for its lack of interest and innovation in the area of local government. 
There is no doubt that the Government has decided to ignore the fact that many millions of dollars will be necessary to finance the programme of sewerage, water supply, and main drainage capital works on which the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works has embarked, and which must be undertaken to maintain minimum standards over the coming years. Under the present loan raising arrangements, the provision of these funds will, of course, further increase the Board's annual commitment for loan interest and redemption. At present, loan interest and redemption payments absorb approximately 38 per cent of the Board's revenue, revenue which is raised by rates. 
It is interesting to note, that very recently the Engineer-in-Chief of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works,  Mr A.  G. Robertson, expressed the view publicly that as funds totalling hundreds of millions of dollars have been provided by the Commonwealth Government to stabilise the wool industry, and assist rural reconstruction, it would appear feasible for it to create a sizable fund from which local government authorities could borrow for approved works at very low rates of interest.  Mr Robertson  suggested further that these rates of interest should bear no relation to the market rate, but should merely cover the cost of administration of the fund. He said that the operation of building societies indicated that this cost would not exceed 1 per cent or at the most 2 per cent.  Mr Robertson  said further: 
It may be argued that this is not an economic way of using capital, and that it should be invested in some other form of national development where a reasonable rate of return could be expected. 
However, I have no doubt that, if the tangible and intangible benefits of maintaining a high quality environment were evaluated in monetary terms, the rate of return on capital invested would be extremely high. 
I am not trying to persuade the Government to adopt  Mr Robertson's  suggested method of providing additional finances to State semi-government and local authorities. The task that confronts us is much greater. It is to persuade the Government that its financial policies towards semigovernment and local authorities are destroying local government. And this is regrettable when in modern society the role of local government is increasing. There are few aspects of our environment, our culture or our welfare which can be handled adequately without involving local government. That this is apparent to so many people, particularly in our inner suburbs, is shown by the large numbers of candidates who offered themselves for election in the just concluded municipal elections. 
There is no doubt that ours will not be a modern society, nor shall we begin to solve our urban problems, regardless of the quality of our councillors, until we permit local government to widen its role, instead of inhibiting its role, as the Government's policies are doing at present. How is the Government inhibiting the role of our 950 local and more than 100 semi-governmental authorities? 
As the Leader of the Opposition has pointed out more than once, the financial burdens of local government are magnified because they must finance much of their works programmes from loan funds, and not, as the Federal Government does, from revenue. The result is that councils are using a large proportion of their rate revenue, not to provide services but to service debts. More than $20 of every $100 of rate revenue is spent on the servicing of debts. It is worthwhile considering the remarks of  Mr Robertson  of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works on the matter of interest charges. He said: 
The Board finances almost the whole of its capital works programme from loan funds. At present its loan liability or, to put it another way, the total amount it owes, is about $547m. 
You will appreciate that the interest and redemption payments on a loan liability of this size are enormous, and that the situation has not been improved by the high rates of interest which have prevailed in recent years. 
The only source of funds available to the Board to make these payments is its rate revenue. 
The situation has now been reached where approximately 58c of each $1 of rate revenue is eaten up by interest, redemption and loan servicing charges on current loans. 
Of every $100 of revenue $58 is eaten up by interest, redemption and loan servicing charges. 
The position with the municipalities is not noticeably belter. Councils arc paying more than 20c in every $1 of their rate revenue to service debts. In other words 20c and more in every $1 of rate revenue is used not to provide services but to service debts. It is not surprising then that the Australian Institute of Municipal Administration called for a nation-wide royal commission into the structure and responsibilities of local government. It is disturbing that the Institute found it necessary to adopt a report which said among other things, that local government, starved of adequate funds and almost wholly dependent upon a property tax for income, is slowly sinking into further financial futility. So we have a situation wherein, on the one hand local government is being debilitated by lack of funds and on the other, local government's ability to play an important governmental role is being increasingly recognised by ratepayers. But, unfortunately, not by the Government. 
Many of us tend to think of local government, the third tier of government, the neglected tier of government, as of no great moment. The reason for this is that, since local government is so very close to the people, councillors who do not do their jobs are very often quickly voted out, because this tier of government was concerned, traditionally, with proper drainage and the health of the city, and it was apparent to everyone when the councillor's job was not well done. However, in recent years the demands made of local government authorities have expanded into areas other than pipes and drains. No longer are the municipalities charged only with the comparatively uncomplicated but nevertheless vital tasks of collecting garbage, licensing dogs, vetting house plans and the collection of rates. Today, the municipalities have responsibilities and duties in areas such as infanct welfare, kindergartens, emergency social welfare, high contributions to road and other facilities including, in Victoria, the fire brigade. In some of these areas local governments have embraced duties not necessarily their own. They have embraced these duties because of their acceptance of social responsibility This is particularly so in some areas of social welfare, where the State Govern ment has instructed local authorities that their duties did not extend into those areas. But fortunately for us all, local authorities have not backed-off. because of their  experience  of the deplorab'e state of affairs which would exist in some areas of social welfare if they did not intrude. 
In this budget, has the Government considered the increased responsibilities and functions imposed on local authorities by the increasing population of our cities? More than one-fifth of the Australian nation lives in the city of Melbourne. In the 20 years beginning in 1947 Australia's population increased by 52 per cent. Victoria's increase is 57 per cent and Melbourne's just on 70 per cent. The decisions which have led to this explosion of Melbourne and its tremendous development have not been made by the local authorities which have had to cope with the problems of rapid development, and changed expectations. The decisions have been made by State and Federal governments, particularly the Federal Government. The Federal Government which made the decisions which led to the growth of our cities should accept the responsibility for financing the servicing of those cities. 
The Leader of the Opposition has indicated on many occasions that it is clearly the responsibility of the Federal Government to see that all 3 levels of government have not on'y the finance but also the motivation and the expertise to play their part in creating a viable environment for the Australians who choose to live in cities. To that end he has said that an Australian Labor Party government would establish a Commonwealth department of urban affairs. The establishment of such a department would serve 2 immediate and important ends. They are the proper functioning of the Australian Federal system and the proper functioning of municipal government. That the present government is not ensuring the proper functioning of municipal government is evidenced by the Australian Institute of Municipal Administration's report that local government is slowly sinking into further financial futility because this level of government is deprived of adequate finance. There is no doubt, that unless local government is financed from the common pool of taxation and loan funds, local government authorities cannot provide the services for which they are the most appropriate medium. But even worse perhaps than the failure to provide services is the sense of futility which emanates from the lack of power resulting from inadequate finance and the lack of public interest. I must confess that 1 was overjoyed to learn recently that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  received the first local government deputation that a Prime Minister has met for more than 20 years. 1 understand that the Prime Minister did this because of the pressures created by the work of the Leader of the Opposition in furthering the  demands of the  impoverished local authorities. 1 do not like to ascribe motives to persons, but we must consider the Government's dismal failure to give proper consideration to the important third tier of government. We must look for motives. We must ask why the Government has concentrated so much power at the centre. Regrettably we cannot escape the conclusion of De Tocqueville who, referring to able and ambitious men, said that they will labour constantly to increase the scope of social power, for they all hope, sooner or later, to control it themselves.' It is a waste of time to demonstrate to such men that extreme centralisation may be harmful to the state, for they are centralising for their own interest in it. The present Government is not going to do anything for local government. It has ignored the unequal development of municipalities and has ignored its own responsibility for local government. Ratepayers are looking forward to a Labor government to provide firstly, local and semi-governmental representation on the Loan Council; secondly, authorisation for the Commonwealth Grants Commission to recommend the nature and amount of Commonwealth financial assistance to remove inequalities in servicing developing suburbs; and thirdly, relief from extortionate debt charges. These things a Labor government will provide. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Australian Jewish News of Nth July 1972 in which  Dr El-Hafez, President  of the Committee of Foreign Affairs of the Lebanese Parliament, and at that date a guest of his Department, in commenting on accusations that armed men, using Lebanon as a security haven, launch attacks on Israel or areas controlled by Israel, was reported as saying that there are Palestinian refugees living in Lebanon but denying that they, are terrorists, that there is a resistance movement which has a right to fight for Palestine but denying that they receive help from Government of Lebanon and denying also that the Government has any responsibility to police their infiltration into neighbouring 'occupied Palestine' which he believes is the responsibility of the Israeli Police. 
If so, does the Government support these views. 
Has the Government indicated its support for the view that the Government of Lebanon is entitled to shelter the so-called resistance movement without any obligation to prevent their incursion into the neighbouring territory of Israel and their return to the sanctuary of Lebanese territory. 
Has the Government considered whether the attitude attributed to  Dr El-Hafez  on the inadmissibility, of intervention in the domestic affairs of states and the protection of their independence and sovereignty is contrary to the Declaration of the United Nations General Assembly, 1965, Article 2; if so, what view did he take. 
Does the Postmaster- 
General recall that in answer to a question I asked on 22nd August the Prime Minister admitted that during a television interview on Channel 7, when discussing foreign takeovers, he stated 'I do not like these takeovers' and 'laws may soon be introduced to curb foreign takeovers'? The Prime Minister then suggested that my question should be directed to the PostmasterGeneral. I now ask the PostmasterGeneral: How does he reconcile the statements of the Prime Minister with the action of his Department in taking the Pink Pages advertising contract away from a wholly  owned Australian company and giving it to an American company - an act which will cause much hardship and unemployment to many Australian workers? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, at a seminar in Perth on 7th June 1972, he stated that a 35-hour week would, on average, add something like 9 per cent to the unit labour cost of production and that the Government will be looking to international corporations to resist the demand for a 35-hour week. 
If a 35-hour week were implemented immeditely, what would be the percentage increase in unit labour cost of production in la) the oil industry, (b) the cargo handling industry and (c) the fuel and power supply industry. 
Would these industries employ more labour if a 35-hour week were implemented; if so, what would be the percentage increase. 
Would more overtime be worked; if so, how much more. 
Do prices rise as a result of take-overs by international corporations. 
Does employment diminish in those industries that are taken over and is there an increase in the cost of unit labour. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health who will be aware that his Department removed 6 brands of pain killing sedative tablets from the pharmaceutical benefits schedule. Is the Minister aware that in an article in the 'Melbourne Herald' of 27th March  Sir Leonard  Mallen. the  Chairman  of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee, stated that in the past  4  or  5  years probably hundreds of pensioners have died from taking these tablets? In order to allay the fears of many elderly people, some of whom have contacted me, and in view of the fact that it has been found that these tablets are not the most suitable sedatives for old people, can the Minister say whether there is any evidence that many elderly people have died as a result of taking them, or is this a personal opinion of  Sir Leonard  Mallen? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the proposed social welfare centres to be set up in the main cities - I refer particularly to the Collingwood, Fitzroy and Northcote areas and the western suburbs of Melbourne - have been cut back or deferred? If so, why? If it is intended to continue with these projects when will this occur? 
I do not intend to speak at any great length because I believe this Bill is so important and so long overdue as to need very little defending. But there are a few things that I think should be said. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  expressed his complete reactionary philosophy by accusing the Australian Labor Party, as he designated us, of offering a bribe to servicemen. I would like to point out that he has also shown his disappointment by not understanding or refusing to recognise the fact that what he calls the Australian Labor Party is today the Govern ment; he still has not learned that those on his side of the House were not bom to rule. If offering and paying decent wages and granting decent conditions to our servicemen and women is a bribe then the Opposition would have been well advised, when its members were in Government, to have paid bribes to the servicemen instead of conscripting our gallant young men and sending them to death in Vietnam. 
The last occasions on which this scheme was studied in any detail in this Parliament were in November 1968 when the maximum advance was raised from $7,000 to $8,000 and in November 1971 when the maximum advance was increased to $9,000. These increases in the limit have hardly kept pace with the rising costs of land and homes in all States. It was once possible for a home to be financed completely by the war service homes grant. This was the case in 1951-52 when the average cost of . a dwelling and land in New South Wales was $5,050. The maximum loan available for a war service home was then $5,500. This Bill is the emergence of the Government's stated aim of restoring this sort of relativity. As the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  advised the Parliament in his second reading speech the Bill has four main purposes: Firstly, to make provision for the extension of the war service homes scheme to include those members of the forces who have completed a specified period of defence service; secondly, to make provision for an increase in the maximum loan under the scheme from $9,000 to $12,000; thirdly, to make provision for the granting of war service homes benefits to certain unmarried female persons with qualifying service under the Act; fourthly, to provide for the extension of eligibility to certain persons who served overseas with the Australian forces in the 1939-45 war, or in war-like operations subsequent to that war, as accredited representatives of a welfare organisation. 
The extension of the war service homes scheme to include those members of the forces who have completed a specified period of defence service should surprise no one, for when the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition we said we would abolish conscription. Accompanying that promise was our stated aim to make the conditions of service in the armed forces such that we would attract to the service of their country not only sufficient suitable young men and women, but also that we would retain the services of these trained people, as they would be, after their first term of enlistment was ended. It was our party's well-publicised judgement that attractive conditions of service would make it easier for young men and women to make their decision to enlist in the service of their country without being penalised relative to the remainder of the community. This Bill is putting that judgment to the test, and the future will reveal the truth of that judgment. If the future reveals that the judgment was in error, we may be accused of bad judgment. But even so the moral question would still remain, and I believe that few people would agree that young men and women who have willingly offered to serve their country and pay the supreme sacrifice if needs be, should be disadvantaged in relation to the remainder of the community, but it does appear that since 1949 Austraiian governments have not subscribed to this sentiment. 
While I have frequently heard it said that any War Service Homes Act is better than no Act, I have never subscribed to this view. An Act which does justice to many but not all tends to obscure the fact that many never receive justice at all. There appears to have been, in some governments since 1949, a ready willingness to aim at the happiness of the greatest number, and to permit the perpetuation of injustice to many, not as a temporary expedient to be remembered, but as an end. This certainly appears to have been the case with the War Service Homes Act. The basic philosophy governing it has not changed in many years. For that reason I am pleased that this Bill not only changes the basic philosophy of the Act, but also, in doing so, extends the eligibility for benefits to single and widowed nurses and ex-service women without dependants, who have the necessary qualifying service under the Act. It is regrettable that the people in this category have been denied justice for many years, particularly so as they do not qualify for housing accommodation under any of the public housing schemes of the States, and they experience great difficulty in obtaining housing loans from institutional lenders because of their age, and because of their sex. This Bill not only gives belated justice to the women in this category, but also gives justice to those members of welfare organisations who served overseas. We are advised that some persons in this category met their deaths on service, and others became prisoners of war and it is fit and proper that there should be an extension of benefits to give justice to these people and their dependants. 
The proposed amendments in this Bill, are, in their implications, the most far reaching in terms of beneficial consequences of any amendments made during the past 20 years. While the implications of these changes are more important than the changed name of the Bill, which will now be known as the Defence Services Homes Bill, the extent of the changed implications certainly justifies the changed name. The provisions in this Bill will not only enable the scheme to continue making an important contribution to the national welfare by assisting eligible persons and their families in all parts of the Commonwealth to obtain homes but will also bring the privilege of these benefits and restore justice to many who were previously deprived. I have no hesitation in commending the Bill and I congratulate the Minister. 
I address my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory, who represents the Attorney-General in this House. In view of the widespread public interest surrounding the private members Bill listed for debate in this House next Thursday - the Bill that has become known as the 'Abortion Bill' - will the Minister inform the House of the legal consequences for a person involved in the unlawful termination of a pregnancy in those Territories as at this date? 
Naturally, I support these Bills. I wish to refer to some of the strange utterances that have been made by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  was disturbed that the Government would make sure that a certain number of houses would not be sold but would be let. He reminds me of the person who was caught out in graft. That person would not take a small amount of graft; he wanted a large amount. The honourable member for Herbert does not disagree with the principle, but he is arguing about the amount. He thinks it is wrong that 30 per cent of houses should be sold, but he wants 50 per cent. This is quite strange. He does not disagree with the principle; he is arguing about the amount. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  mentioned something about innovation. Of course, the honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House have never been known for innovation.  His  great concern was income. He seemed greatly disturbed. He said that a person's income should never determine where he lives or the type of housing in which he lives. What utter bourgeois baloney! What else decides where a man lives and the type of home in which he lives? Do we ever see the millionaires and the land owners of Bendigo lining up for housing commission homes? Of course we do not. That is the sort of diatribe in which honourable members opposite engage to disturb the working class people of our nation. 
These Bills amend and replace the States Grants Housing Act 1971 which in turn replaced the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. The Agreement was first introduced by a Commonwealth Labor government under the Prime Ministership of  Mr Chifley.  At that time an agreement was entered into between the Commonwealth and the States under which the States would construct dwellings for workers on low incomes. The original policy was that the Commonwealth would charge the States interest at 3 per cent. That interest rate was retained from 1945 until 1956 when a new agreement was entered into. The conservative government charged the States an interest rate which was 1 per cent below the ruling bond rate. In 1970 that interest rate was 7 per cent. But in 1971 the Liberal Government replaced the Agreement with a Bill which abolished the 1 per cent rebate and charged the States the ruling bond rate. Under the new Agreement which this Government is now presenting, the interest rate on advances for housing authority purposes will be fixed at 4 per cent per annum and for home builders accounts at 41 per cent per annum for the duration of the Agreement. 
The 3 Bills are inter-related. They mark the emergence of our Government's long stated aim of directing the greatest assistance to those most in need of decent housing at rents which they can afford and of reducing the waiting lists for State housing authority dwellings. The number now awaiting this type of accommodation exceeds 93,000 and is growing daily. The States Grants (Housing) Bill amends the States Grants (Housing) Act 1971 by withdrawing Commonwealth assistance to the States in the form of grants of $2.75m a year payable for 30 years in respect of advances they may make to their housing authorities and their home builders accounts after 30 June 1973. It is the intention of our Government that from 1 July 1973 the bulk of the Government's housing assistance to the States will be in the form of advances at a highly concessional rate of interest, as mentioned in the Housing Agreement, and not tied to movements in the bond rate. It is to be emphasised, however, that this Bill does not repeal the grant of Si. 25m a year payable over the next 3 years to the States as a contribution towards the cost to them of the losses they incur in letting a number of dwellings at less than their economic rents. 
The States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill seeks authority from the Treasurer to pay to the States advances totalling S84.6m in the first 6 months of 1973-74 under the terms and conditions of the Housing Agreement in order to provide for the States' needs for housing funds in the early months of 1973- 74. The Housing Agreement Bill is designed to obtain parliamentary approval for the Commonwealth to enter into agreement with each State so that the Commonwealth, for the next 5 years from 1 July 1973, will be able to make advances at low rates of interest for welfare housing purposes. The agreement states that one of the purposes for which advances to the State housing authorities may be used is for the purchase and renovation of existing dwellings. This I believe, is to be commended, for in the Victorian State Housing Act provision is already made to allow the Housing Commission to advance funds for the renovation of existing houses. Yet this has never been done. 
The Commonwealth has the power to lay down conditions under which it makes funds available to the various State housing authorities. In the past to some extent the Commonwealth has played a positive role in ensuring that the Victorian Housing Commission makes available public housing for those on low incomes. However, the Victorian Housing Commission has been doing this in the inner areas of Melbourne in a totally unacceptable manner. It has in many instances, and with a terrible heartlessness, deprived low income groups of houses which they did not want to part with. So much so that in August 1971 no fewer than 250 residents of North Fitzroy, which is in my electorate, marched in protest into the Brookes Crescent area where the Housing Commission was attempting to have a demolition order placed on the whole area, so that the houses could be torn down to make way for another high rise anthill, in answer to the demand for more houses. One of the residents pointed out to the protesters that it was ironical and incongruous that potentially good houses should be pulled down against the wishes of the owners to make way for flats. 
I should like to see the Commonwealth not only permit but insist on some money being made available for the renovation of houses in a state of disrepair. The Victorian Housing Commission to date has failed to respond to the needs of people for funds to restore existing houses. Many people presently residing in the inner suburbs have made clear their satisfaction with their houses in every particular but one, namely, the need for renovation. If we travel through these areas we see evidence of successful renovation, but we also see the results of brave attempts which have ended in failure. While in many instances failure may result from the lack of informed knowledge, they frequently result from too little money being available to do the renovation properly. On the basis of any cost-benefit equation there are excellent grounds for the Government to insist that a large sum at low interest be made available to house owners or purchasers for renovation. 
Furthermore, failure to take steps to ensure that funds are made available for renovation encourages the Victorian Housing Commission to press on with its wanton destruction of what is potentially good living accommodation for accommodation which is less conducive to the good life. Let us consider the variety and diversity that renovations would preserve, not only for keeping things because they are old, but also for keeping them for the good effect that variety and diversity have on the imagination not of adults alone but also of the children who are growing up in the community. In the inner suburban areas which are part of my electorate there are interesting land masses which nature has left unadorned but also which man in his building has made, if not beautiful to the trained eye, at least exciting and entertaining to those who enjoy the novelty of variety. In these places we see a mixture of old and new houses, some with a Spanish or Italian influence. There are churches and factories of various sorts and shops whose purposes and styles are as varied and seemingly as unconnected as the houses, giving the community a vitality that I regret is being undermined by uncertainty about the future. 
Many of the residents of this area do not care about this community. They see it as a mess of old run-down houses and they will sell out for flat development, which also will add to the variety of the community. But many - in fact, most - are prepared to hold fast to that which they have, even at some cost for renovation. I sincerely believe that the Government should ensure that they are assisted to do just that. In these Bills the Government is making the first progressive move. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has begun to usher in a new progressive deal in housing by recognising what has regrettably been ignored by previous Ministers, the fundamental fact which was expressed at the Building and Construction Forum in Melbourne on 29 September 1970. It was stated: 
We cannot hope to eliminate poverty, or to derive full benefit from improved health and education services, without making proper provision for housing. It is hypocritical for us to celebrate national affluence and prosperity while so many Australians are so wretchedly ill housed or are so impoverished by the cost of housing. Proper housing for all is the foundation and the prerequisite of genuine national prosperity. 
These Bills express quite clearly the Government's deep concern towards the housing needs of those who do so much of the toil to create so much of the wealth of this nation and to whom the past Liberal Party-Country Party Governments have had such a cavalier attitude. I commend the Bills and I congratulate the Minister. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Are the Government aircraft factories to be merged with the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. 
If so, will the Government retain a majority interest in the merged enterprise. 
Is it expected that there will be any retrenchment of personnel because of the proposed merger. 
If  personnel  are transferred or retrenched, what will be the position with  regard  to their  superannuation  and provident fund entitlements, and sick leave and  furlough  credits. 
If a position of reasonable level is not available in the proposed new structure, what security or alternative employment will be offered to  personnel  of long service who are still classed as temporary public  servants,  although they have rendered many years of service and effort to their organisation. 
If the answers to parts (3) and (4) are unfavourable, by what other means will it  be  ensured that the  personnel  of the Government aircraft factories receive  justice  in everyrespect. 
4 .ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Is he aware of the reports that the 7-year-old Aboriginal girl who was taken from her foster parents in Darwin has been speared as a form of tribal punishment and is to become the child bride of a middleaged man? 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen statements in the Victorian metropolitan and provincial newspapers indicating that the State Government is planning to recruit building workers, particularly for country areas? Is this being done outside the announced program or is it being done in co-operation with the Australian Government? 
It was very pleasing to hear the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  supporting the Bill. The few criticisms which he made were directed in the form of questions to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  Therefore, I will allow the Minister ' the courtesy of answering those questions. This Bill enables the Australian Government to provide funds under the child migrant, program, to help State and independent schools provide emergency accommodation, where 'this is necessary, and to allow adequate special instruction of migrant children to take place. The Bill reverses a decision of the previous Government to exclude the provision of  accommodation from the Commonwealth  program. 
The speeches made in this .House when the Minister at the time introduced . the Immigration (Education) Bill 197i gave evidence of general agreement with 2 assumptions. One assumption is that the ability, pf. migrants to communicate with other members of the community is fundamental- to their successful integration. The second assumption is that if the community encourages -migrants to learn English, the community and migrants will be the richer in both social and . human terms. Despite agreement on these assumptions, we know that the education of migrant children in our schools is presenting problems which are not susceptible of an easy solution. The Victorian Migrant Task Force in its recently presented report stated:..... 
Recent surveys and reports indicate that: 
Effectively only 20 per .cent of the children in the schools surveyed who need English tuition are receiving enough of it, and the largest single concentration of disadvantaged schools is located in and about Melbourne, where there are very high proportions of migrants from non-English speaking countries. In effect .there is a blatant denial of the child's right to a meaningful and fulfilling educational experience. 
There was a time when the problems of educational deprivation among migrants, and for that matter among fifth generation Australians, was susceptible of relatively easy solution. At that time the existence of the problem was publicly acknowledged by few. Now, however, the existence of educational deprivation on a vast scale in the inner suburbs around Melbourne is apparent to all and acknowledged by many. An easy ending of this deprivation is not possible. The recognition that the problem exists, together with a willingness to solve it, does not mean that a single, simple solution will be found. On the contrary, we can see that remedial action will require a variety of pro grams. These programs will need repeated revision. 
We need more than a recognition of the magnitude of the problem and more than a willingness to resolve it. We need, above all, a sense of passionate outrage if we are to end this shocking deprivation of migrant children's rights. I choose the word 'deprivation' rather than the word 'lack' for the obvious reason that the word 'deprivation' implies a deliberate, active intent, whereas the word 'lack' merely implies an accidental effect. Our community should feel a sense of passionate outrage that so many of us were blind to the cruel reality that has been unfolding before our eyes for more than 20 years. If we are not outraged by past and present deprivation surely we will have future deprivation. Furthermore, we will be encouraged to adopt simple, easy, plausible solutions which will demand more of what is going - more money, teachers, classrooms and books, and better technical aids, better books and beter trained teachers. It is an ill wind that blows no one any good. The certainty that a quantitative extension of the present elements in education will benefit teachers, builders, and the educational aids houses does not convince me that educational deprivation will end. 
The provision of quantitative extensions in the on-going system is not without some value, but surely there will still be gaps between the well meaning planner's promise and his performance. The position here is analagous to the pleas for more from the United States generals in Vietnam rather than to Oliver Twist's request for more in the work house. We cannot in fairness expect our teachers and their institutions alone to end the deprivation of cur migrant children presently at school. Nor can we expect our teachers and their institutions alone to restore those who were maimed educationally by our past lack of concern. If we are to understand the causes of educational deprivation firstly we must understand the causes of educational success. 
It is, of course, a commonplace that success at school is largely caused by home background. Further evidence supporting this generally accepted contention has come from recent newspaper reports of a comparative analysis produced by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement published in Stockholm a short while ago. It is a well known fact that the ability to read a piece of literature is influenced more by the home background of the student than by the type of teaching. It is well known that students who come from homes with many books and magazines, and an environment conducive to reading, not only will read better, but also will show more interest in literature. It is equally well known that when the population of a school comes from homes wherein the parents themselves are well educated, economically advantaged, and able to provide an environment in which reading matter and communication media are available, the school will show a generally superior level of reading achievement. The truth is that it matters not greatly which school the student attends, but from where he comes. 
In the report that I mentioned, the Chief Research Officer of the Australian Council for Educational Research,  Mr Malcolm  Rosier, said that the project assessing achievement in science showed the importance of home background. He stated: 
The results provide new light on the relative importance of home background and school activities in educational success. 
They confirm that educational achievement in all the countries studied ls directly related to the students' social circumstances, irrespective of differences in school organisation, or resources or the qualifications of the teachers. 
The results pinpoint, in a way which enable international comparisons to be made, the extent to which educational opportunity is socially biased in favour of the upper and middle classes and away from the low status groups. 
In this country today, the task which confronts a social democratic Government, dedicated to the eradication of inequality while not debasing standards, is herculean. In this country, for many years past, the judges have decided the winners of the race before the starter's gun has punctured the air. The apologists for this practice, of preference for some, are justifying this practice by pretending that innate intelligence is the determinant of success. However, success depends upon a judicious choice of parents, although intelligence may help if parents have been chosen carelessly. 
Like so many children in Melbourne's northern and western suburbs, the migrant child, in the present situation, needs more than intelligence, initiative, and determination. While the situation is bad for educationally deprived children, it is ironical that every child learns something at school. For as Everett Reimer says in his book 'school is dead': 
No child, however, fails to learn from school. Those who never get in learn that the good things of life are not for them. 
Those who drop out early learn that they, do not deserve the good things of life. 
The later drop-outs learn that the system can be beat but not by them. 
All of them learn that school is the path to secular salvation, and resolve that their children shall climb higher on the ladder than they did. 
But despite the firm intentions of the parents despite the determination of the student, we know that the race is won, and lost, before it is run. Once we have accepted that the problems of migrant education are pretty largely environmentally and socially caused, we will be able, if we have the courage to choose, to look more critically at our society, and to see where governmental intervention can be most usefully employed. 
At the present time, constructive action is inhibited by an inability of the community to free itself of the assumptions of the past. The magnitude of the problem that confronts us, and that confronts us ever more urgently, can be seen nowhere more clearly than in the discrimination even Australian girls presently suffer. At the subjective level girls have a poorer view than boys do of their own abilities. At the objective level there is no evidence for a difference in average intelligence of men and women, when we take each group as a whole. However, there is no doubt that there are differences in the aspirations and performances of boys and girls. And that these differences are caused by our expectations as teachers, as parents, and as employers, 'that girls will behave like this, and boys will behave like that*. The expectations of the various elements of society influence the performance not only of Australians but also of migrants. 
When we consider the problems that face us in the area of migrant education we cannot escape the conclusion that Australia's post war immigration program has been irresponsibly administered in the area of migrant child education, in the area of migrant adult education, and in the area of migrant integration. It is apparent to all that the program has been controlled by the motive of securing an affluent economy for the nation and virtually nothing has been done towards securing the welfare of migrant families. Community attitudes towards migrants have been characterised by false beliefs of wide currency that no government action has been taken to dispel. For example, there is a misunderstanding in the community that migrant children are naturally bi-lingual. They are not. 
Under the impact of education conducted in the English language and their natural desire to join in the social life of the school by speaking English as quickly and as often as possible, their language of origin quickly deteriorates into 'kitchen' Italian or Greek or whatever their natural language is. As the Brotherhood of St. Laurence pointed out in the booklet 'two worlds': 
At the age of fourteen or fifteen years, when they are most in need of communicating with their families on the abstract and complex ideas of higher education and its demands, they find themselves unable to do so. 
When we discussed the Migrant (Education) Bill . 1971 in this House I was aware of this problem, and in reference to adult and adolescent migrants who were arriving in thiscountry to go straight into factories, I said: 
In lacking education, they suffer a lack of knowledge and understanding of their own cultural heritage and in the long run this particular lack is more unfortunate for them than their inability to speak our tongue, for implicit in their lack of understanding of their own culture is a lack of facility in their own tongue, and this is disastrous, because as every one knows, language is more than words. 
But despite this, the Department is insisting that instruction not only for adolescent and older migrants, including those who will hardly be involved in the wider spheres of community life because they are confined to the home, but also for children, should be by the situation method as though the study of language or the proper use of words can be divorced from the study of the history and literature that produced those words. 
As all the evidence to hand at the present time supports the contention that school administrators and educational experts, armed with vast resources, are unable to overcome the disadvantages of the family background, one step towards this end would be increased government assistance to the adult migrant education program, by sponsoring on television imported Italian, Greek, Spanish or Turkish variety programs, as well as adventure programs, that have met with success in terms of popularity overseas. A difficulty here is that some underprivileged homes may not have television, but, as many do, this approach would meet with some success. We could also sponsor 'talk-back' programs on commercial radio. I see no reason for not sponsoring or subsidising foreign language editions of the popular women's magazines. But more importantly we must make the schools for adult and adolescent migrants more popular, and in this regard I must confess to disappointment that the trade unions have so far made no approach to the Victorian Migrant Task Force Committee. Perhaps some approaches will be made after the Migrant Workers Conference has concluded early in October. Those of us who view education from the outside, neither as teachers, nor as pupils, nor as employers, cannot escape the conclusion that no matter how much money we pour into schools they are not going to succeed in developing or freeing the potential of our children or of our adult migrants. None of us has escaped a nodding acquaintance at least with the works of Paul Goodman, Ivan Illich, and Paulo Freire. Although we may not agree with the prescriptions of these radicals - and for all I know they may not agree with each other - we cannot ignore them. What do they say? Firstly, they are adamant that education is much more than what is provided in schools. They say that over the last 100 years or so, we have identified education with schooling, but Goodman and Illich also say that the school is not, and cannot be the only agency of education. Illich says that school stands in the way of education and that we must deschool' education if it is to become a means of human liberation. 
Secondly, they argue that education is a do it yourself job. They say that the child educates himself with the help of the family, the peer group, the community at large. They say that a child can be influenced, brainwashed, indoctrinated by another person, but he cannot be educated by another person. It is said that the main agent of education is the pupil himself, that the teacher is merely an auxiliary. 
If we are to improve the chances of success of migrant children - and native Australians - we must compensate for the backgrounds that are deficient - in books, magazines and communications media on the one hand and, on the other hand, lack of proper study facilities, such as warmth, privacy and freedom from noise and interruption. The achievement of these ends may necessitate the building of boarding schools in the inner suburbs which the children could attend for limited periods on a voluntary basis, and the provision of houses in these areas where children could study away from school in a satisfactory environment. 
I point out most importantly that there is nothing radical in these proposals. The well off have enjoyed these kinds of amenities for ages past. Furthermore, we should encourage trained teachers to establish their own schools away from the larger school environment. Four or 5 teachers and 70 or 80 students, working in an inner suburban house, may achieve more than the same number of people working in the larger school environment. These teachers would, of course, be protected by the same conditions of employment as apply to teachers in the larger school system. We know the ingredients for success in education. They are: Home background, pupil motivation, good teachers and ends that realise the student's potential. We must compensate for unsatisfactory home background, and this will demand creativity of the teachers and the legislators. 
For a number of years, the Victorian Education Department has made it plain that schools have complete autonomy in their program choice. Innovations and experimental studies are welcomed by the Department. This policy has often been publicly expressed. However, a great number of principals of schools, and some members of their staffs, still seem to feel that retribution will be swift if they start acting on the assumption that the Department means what it says. Those with this attitude, plus the tradition-oriented quality of many older teachers who are prepared and eager to introduce ways of coping with the problem, find that their worst frustrations come from the schools, not the Education Department. 
I said in the beginning of these remarks that the problems associated with the eradication of inequality without debasing standards is Herculean. But it can be done. But we must compensate for educationally deprived home background, and we must see the school as only one element in the education process. This Bill is one move in the right direction and it is an indication of the Labor Government's awareness of and its determination to eradicate educational inequality. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Has the Minister taken any action on the recommendation of the Victorian Migrant Task Force that steps should be taken to warn newly arrived migrants of dangers associated with the use and abuse of hire purchase? If not, when will action be taken? If something has been done, will the Minister report on it without delay? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has his attention been drawn to a reported statement by the Leader of the Australian Country Party yesterday in which he said that the Country Party welcomes multi-national companies in Australia and in which he suggested that responsible Government action to stop the sell-out of Australia was a kind of international apartheid? How does he believe primary producers would react to that kind of statement? Is it correct that primary production is one of the few remaining sectors of the economy that have not been very largely swallowed up by foreign interests? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Is immigration from Japan expected to rise sharply in the future following the announcement of increased interest by Japan in the development of Australia's resources? If so, what would be the order of such a rise? 
 Is the Minister for Social Security able to confirm that, under the previous Government, debt collecting agencies and other business undertakings of the sort represented in this Parliament by the parties now in Opposition were given access to the confidential files of social security beneficiaries? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements in which the ex-Ministers by whom this convenient extension of the old boy network was initiated or condoned expressed concern that there might be breaches of confidentiality in relation to records held by the proposed health insurance commission? Will the Minister reaffirm that the present Government, unlike its predecessors, is committed to the confidentiality of personal records and that procedures which he personally has initiated will ensure that this confidentiality is maintained? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that the new easy visitor system which he introduced earlier this year has been suspended? If so, does he intend to reintroduce the system and if so, when? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  has blamed the Commonwealth Government for his repudiation of an election promise to rebate 50 per cent of pensioners' municipal rates? Was any approach made to the Commonwealth Government by the Victorian Government prior to the Victorian election for assistance with this scheme? If not, is this just another case of a Liberal Premier making the Commonwealth Government a scapegoat for an election promise that he never intended to keep? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration: Are reports true that island girls are being brought into Australia as cheap domestic labour? If so, what action is being contemplated to end this situation or to ensure that those who are brought in receive award wages and conditions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Has there been a second case similar to that of Sergeant Gamboa of the Philippines? If so, how could this come about when this Government has a non-discriminatory policy? If a similar case has occurred, will the Minister take steps to reverse any decision which would give rise to the headline 'History - a la Sergeant Gamboa - repeats itself which appeared in one of yesterday's newspapers? 
Is the Minister for Immigration aware of allegations that there are now 30,000 people illegally in Australia? Is this a fact, and if so what action is being taken to rectify the position. If not, will the Minister clarify the position? 
Can the Minister for Manufacturing Industry inform the House of any details concerning sales of Nomad aircraft being made by the Government Aircraft Factory, at Fishermen's Bend? 
-Will the Prime Minister use his good offices with all governments concerned to urge a return to constitutional rule on the island of Cyprus as it existed before fighting began on 20 July? 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware that after increases in age and invalid pensions last year the Victorian Housing Commission raised pensioners' rents by $1.50 and that pensioners have now been notified that rents will be increased by $3 following recent pension increases of $5? Does the 
Minister agree that the principle of assisting pensioners by increases is being exploited by the Victorian Housing Commission? What action, if any, can the Minister take to prevent this exploitation by the Victorian Liberal Government of this needy section of society? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to reports of high praise for Tuesday's economic statement from the Presidents of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research and many business leaders? Does he welcome these statements as a positive contribution to the establishment of a social contract on which national prosperity can be securely based? Does he regret statements throwing doubt on the effectiveness of Tuesday's measures from people who call repeatedly for a restoration of business confidence? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the Government's economic policies require the co-operation of all sections of the community to break the wage-price spiral and reverse the trend in unemployment? What response has the Government received to its appeal? 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of any development in the matter of trade with Japan subsequent to the recent statement on this subject by the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen? 
I do not intend to speak at any great length as this Bill has been debated over many hours and by both Houses of the Parliament. The tenor of the debate indicates that honourable members on both sides of the House are desirous of ensuring that the best possible family law legislation is enacted, and enacted as soon as possible. But many people from within my electorate, and indeed from without, have written expressing their attitude both for and against the Bill and exhorting me to vote in a particular manner. Therefore, I desire to express generally my attitude towards the Bill. Although I have no intention to canvass all the clauses in the Bill which have been well considered and looked after by our legal colleagues and by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which worked so hard, and received and considered so many written and oral submissions and evidence from so many individuals and organisations, I should like to give the reasons why I support the Bill. 
Probably the most important and provocative change in the minds of many opponents of the Bill is the replacement of the concept of fault in the present law with the one ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage after 12 months separation. It has been pointed out by several speakers in the debate that this is an extension of the changes brought about when the existing matrimonial causes law was introduced in 1959. It introduced the concept of no fault divorce after 5 years separation. So the notion of divorce without fault is not new to Australia. At that time the change was predicted to bring about the opening of the divorce flood gates and the destruction of the existing society. We all know that that did not happen. The reason why I consider the period of one year separation is acceptable is that the Bill provides for the establishment of a Family Court. The provision of the Family Court will make a tremendous difference to all areas covered by the legislation, and the operation of this Family Court will mean that throughout the year of separation there will be a helping, ongoing court to which people can appeal and which can actually be involved in the problems surrounding the question of whether a reconciliation is possible. That is not the situation now. 
By the time the court now comes upon a divorce, most likely a period of 2 years of desertion has elapsed, and possibly another year has elapsed in bringing the proceedings to the court. By that time the attitudes of the parties to the marriage have hardened against reconciliation, and the marriage is dead. But what a different situation could be created by an active, sympathetic family court operating during the 12 months period of separation. This provision for more counselling service and the establishment of a Family Court will be a vast improvement and will give much greater support to family unity than the concept of blame and retribution inherent in the existing legislation. This Bill, which contains these very important provisions for counselling and attemps at reconciliation, can in no way be considered a Bill for the production of quickie or Reno type divorces, which seems to be the concern of many people. 
It appears that a basic and serious misconception is held by these opponents of change in the law. The misconception seems to be that the divorce rate in the community is a direct measure of happiness in marriage or a measure of morality or immorality within the community. These people assume that unhappy marriages end in divorce and that the remainder are all happy marriages. This is an absurd situationconsidering the expense, legal barriers and the personal denigration and public disapproval which has hampered divorce proceedings in the past. The logical assumption from the argument of these people is that the Victorian era, with its low divorce rate, was a period of unsurpassed marital bliss. But who would wish to return to those days when a wife was frequently just one of her husband's chattels? Athough this Bill does away with the concept of fault in the situation of divorce, it does not do away with the concept of fault or responsibility where the maintenance and custody of children are concerned, and those clauses which particularly aim to protect wives and children I certainly support. 
One of the most distressing side effects arising out of the legal and psychological warfare associated with prolonged divorce proceedings is the bitterness and personal hatred which can split family and friends. If this Bill can partly reduce this distress I am happy to support it, and I believe that it will considerably reduce it. We probably all know or have seen the misery of the unhappy marriage in which one or other of the partners, and usually the woman, is unable to escape from this disastrous partnership for social, economic or psychological reasons. How many of us know of the decent, home-loving wife with three or more children who is nothing more than an economic slave? This Bill may help some of these people, but probably not enough of them, because, as other honourable members have pointed out, marital breakdown is a social and psychological problem, not a legal problem. The change from the extended biological family we had in the past to the more fragile nuclear family, the increase in the breadth of education for women in our society and the changing rate of opportunities for women have all made marriage a more stressful situation. But I cannot agree that harsh, inequitable divorce laws, and a situation of warfare in law courts where personal recriminations are the norm, will do anything to strengthen the marriage bond. 
I mentioned earlier that this Bill contains provisions which aim particularly at protection of wives in the matter of maintenance. There has been considerable criticism of clause 72, claiming that this provision would remove from the husband a present duty to maintain his wife and impose upon a wife a positive, primary legal duty to maintain herself. I understand that in fact under sections 4, 8 and 9 of the Victorian Maintenance Act of 1965 women are liable already to maintain themselves, their children and their husbands under certain conditions. Clause 72 of this Bill merely states: 
A party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party to the extent that the first-mentioned party is reasonably able to do so, if, and only if, that other party is unable to support herself or himself adequately, whether by reason of having the care or control of a child of the marriage who has not attained the age of 18 years, or by reason of age or physical or mental incapacity for appropriate gainful employment or for any other adequate reason having regard to any relevant matter referred to in sub-section 75(2). 
The matters referred to in clause 75(2) include any fact which the court thinks should be taken into account, including age and state of health of the parties, the care and control of children, the extent to which the party claiming maintenance has contributed to the income, earning capacity, property and financial resources of the other party, the duration of the marriage and the extent to which it has affected the earning capacity of the party whose maintenance is under consideration, and the property arrangements. What could be fairer than that? I certainly support this provision. Many lawyers with whom I have discussed the Family Law Bill are of the opinion that it is completely fair to women and amply protects their interests and those of the children 
It is said that the Bill will weaken marriage and that the community will suffer from what might be described as permissiveness in our society as a result. I do not accept that proposition. The problems of marital breakdowm are enormous and they will not be solved completely by this Bill. I have not heard anyone associated with this Bill claim that all problems will be solved by it, but the Bill does deal with the legal problems associated with divorce in a more humane manner than has ever been legislated for previously. Further, I believe that the provisions in the Bill in relation to counselling and guidance will help greatly to show the way for the future. There has been a lot of dispute about the Bill before us, both by honourable members and by certain groups of well-meaning but misinformed people. While I disagree with their views, I believe that they are derived from a deep respect for the institution of marriage, a respect which I share. But I hope that these people can acknowledge that the difference between us is not a difference in attitude to marriage but a difference in belief as to what this Bill is about and what it can achieve. 
It has become apparent to me after many discussions with people who deal with the unfortunate end of marriage, the people who deal with the dissolution of marriage, that the present system causes injustice, ill-feeling and hardship and that it should be changed. I hold out no real expectation that we will have a sudden change in human behaviour so that most of those marriages under threat of dissolution will now be repaired. Nobody expects that. Most marriages which have broken down will remain broken, but surely we must provide the necessary courts and facilities so that the break up occurs with the least bitterness and humiliation. It is because I believe strongly in the institution of marriage, in seeing it preserved and in making it workable that I consider the principles of this Bill a giant step forward in our social history. I support the Bill. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has seen recent comments about the honours system and about the announcement of procedures for making awards inserted in newspapers by the Council of the Order of Australia. Does he consider that this method of inviting nominations, which I understand follows the Canadian precedent, will be effective? 
I ask the Minister for Health whether he is aware of claims that the drug laetrile is an effective cure for cancer. If so, is there any evidence to support these claims? 
Br EVERINGHAM- Laetrile promoters have been given every opportunity to present evidence in support of these claims which they have been making for about 20 years. They have been promoting laetrile as a cure for cancer at very great cost and, I believe, have even sent promoters to this country. However I must regard the claims as false and misleading. They have been investigated in the United States of America for over 20 years by commissions, councils, ad hoc committees and scientific organisations. There was an 8-week court trial of the promoters followed by an appeal and a review by a 3-judge court. It was found that laetrile is of no value in the treatment of cancer. 
In January last year the Food and Drug Administration of the United States of America issued a report on the substance following a 5-month review. There also was a separate review by an independent specialist advisory committee of cancer experts from all over the United States of America. Both of these bodies found that there is no acceptable evidence that laetrile has any anti-cancer effect, and the Food and Drug Administration went further and said that the data did not even justify clinical trials of the agent and it is not available in the United States of America. Despite their assertions that thousands have been cured of cancer by laetrile, its promoters produce only meagre records of a few patients and these show no relationship between the use of laetrile and tumour growth. The manufacturers of orthodox remedies, by contrast, are required to produce substantial justification of their claims. 
Our own Australian Drug Evaluation Committee examined the available data in April 1 973 and found no evidence that it has any effect against cancer; indeed, there was no evidence of its safety. These committees and bodies are vitally interested in the wellbeing and the plight of cancer sufferers. Their consistently negative findings reflect on the promoters of laetrile who have continued for 20 years to encourage its use by cancer victims or people who fear or suspect that they have cancer, despite the lack of any statistical or reliable evidence to support the claims. I am very concerned that a number of people in this country as well as overseas may have been induced by these high pressure claims to put off for years orthodox and proper treatment which may have helped them to live a bit longer or in a bit more comfort. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister seen reports of the demands for a sharp reduction in Australian Government expenditure on education? Can he say what is the source of these demands and the likely effect of their being met? 
I rise to speak because a vast number of elements acting against the smooth running and implementation of the Karmel report's findings and the Federal Government's education program have been brought to my attention. In three major areas there have been deliberate and accidental, planned and unplanned barriers put up against a program which has set about getting a vast amount of money into areas of great need. A great deal has been said about States being tardy in taking up their allocations of Schools Commission money, and even more about the fact that many of them are still bumbling and chundering on, way behind in the use of the funds available to them for handicapped and disadvantaged children. 
The fact that the program has suffered immensely in all States, excepting the Labor governed States of South Australia and Tasmania, would go unchallenged in most places. It is only the conniving, 'do nothing', and 'care less' Liberal Ministers for Education who will deny that their departments have mishandled the entire spending programs. Graham Williams, writing in the 'Australian' on 28 May, summed up the situation well when he said that the program had suffered because of the inertia, chronic lack of vision, and stiff necked attitude that bedevils several State education bureaucracies. He is right, too, in saying that several States have failed to draw up strong guidelines for their needs strategies, but instead have frittered away the money with no regard to an overall plan. The result is little obvious change in the overall balance- the deprived remain relatively deprived. 
One can build up a huge case against the States and ask where have the priorities for migrant and remedial teachers, innovations, library books and the remedial problem in general been shelved. The arguments have been articulated and remade time and time again; yet the States will tell you expenditure is proceeding at a satisfactory rate. Deafness and blindness in politics is as sad as it is in real life but dishonesty of this order cannot be tolerated. However, disgusting and disheartening as these facts are, there are other areas of concern which have not had the same publicity and which must be mentioned in this place. 
The Australian Government's Schools Commission program has become both the source of profiteering and the victim of bureaucratic holdups and mishandling at the levels of local government and State Health Departments. In this regard I refer especially to the nongovernment schools situation in Victoria. In dealing directly with disadvantaged schools building projects in Catholic schools, one could be excused for thinking things would move much more quickly than through the State system. They do, but not as quickly as they could and not without excessive costs. While we have State Education Departments foiling the program in their areas we have State Health Departments retarding the progress of the independent schools. As you will be aware,  Mr Speaker,  building at the present time is subject to inflation as much or more than any area of the economy. Deliberate and accidential hold-ups in the gaining of permits can therefore be very costly. 
In Victoria, the absolute minimum time it takes for a Health Department all clear is 6 weeks. There are 2 qualified departmental officials working in the area- 2 men for the whole State- and consequently it usually takes a good deal longer than 6 weeks. That is the first problem. Every day lost is money, Karmel money and other, frittered away in inflation. A building permit cannot be gained without the all clear from the Health Department, and who knows how long that will take? 
Then of course there is the problem of the Victorian State health regulations for schools. These far-reaching and progressive rules, which state schools do not have to conform to, were last rewritten in 1943. Although the wisdom of stipulating 11 -feet ceilings for classrooms was probably apparent to those dutiful public servants responsible, it can hardly to regarded as anything but costly and ridiculous for the preparatory and junior grades of today. This is yet another way that well intentioned and apportioned money has to be mis-spent or lose its value. However, the opportunity-cost of Health Department hold-ups, and the added expense their archaic regulations necessitate, are only the start of the non-government schools problems in regard to their building grants under the disadvantaged program. The real problems begin with building permit delays, excessive charges and the consequent erosion of the monetary value of their grants. 
Take the example of a school in my electorate -Our Lady's Convent in Cape Street, Heidelberg. The original tender price for work to be done at this school was $562,000. Showing its usual diligence and efficiency in this regard, the Catholic Education Branch swung straight into action after- it was granted $120,000 for this building by the Federal Government. Many people would argue that the Schools Commission grant was not enough, but the 12 months it took to get the necessary permits was the real problem. In the one-year delay, the price of the project increased by $75,000. This incredible escalation in cost meant, in fact, that the Karmel money-$120,000-was worth only $45,000. One has to deplore such delays, not only for their opportunity-cost to the schools and the children involved, but also because it is seemingly unncessary dissipation of Federal money. This however is a case of unfortunate, uncontrollable bureaucratic delays. 
What I am concerned about as well, is that in other cases it seems that local municipal governments are deliberately squeezing schools for their own revenue. There is a case, for instance, of a Catholic school in inner suburban Melbourne where proceedings were held up to such an extent that not only did building costs double, but also, while they waited for their building permit, the cost of these permits more than trebled. When this school went to tender in June 1974 the contracted cost was $305,655. At the present time, as building finally begins, the estimated cost is some $40,000 in excess of this. Added to this, the cost of the building permit was $ 1 ,000 more than had previously been the case. 
Originally the school had been granted a town planning permit, but due to a neighbour's complaint it moved the planned building site slightly. When it submitted for a modification of its permit, it was disallowed. It had to re-submit for a new permit, which took nearly 12 months to materialise. In the interim the cost of such a permit had risen from $400 to $ 1 ,400. 
The question many people are asking of the Melbourne City .Council therefore is: Did it decide in 1974 that, as there was so much Federal money around for schools, it should be siphoning off a bit? The argument for this case is that only for schools and hospitals- two areas heavily subsidised by the Federal Government- are the building plans slugged to this extent. Commercial buildings, for instance, are not. In fact, most commercial building projects are granted partial permits, so that they can proceed with construction and have their plans approved in stages, thus decreasing the effects of inflation. Schools, of course, are not granted this luxury. 
I raise these points because people are concerned that local councils have seen lavish Federal spending on areas of need such as schools and are trying to raise revenue on what is in fact non-ratable land. The building permit is the way they have done it. The problem, as I have pointed out and cannot over-stress, is that while they dilly-dally over these permits, and charge excessively for them, escalating prices are eating even further into the schools' funds. It is the helpless, the needy, and those who do not vote who will suffer in the long run- the children. 
That these are matters of concern in the community and in education is reason enough to speak on them here tonight. However, my concern does not stop here. The Australian Labor Government was elected in 1972 and again in 1974 to carry out a program which placed great weight on education. Our program is being thwarted. As we enter the pre-Budget part of the year, and people everywhere begin to talk of government spending priorities- perhaps cutbackswe will find that education is one of the areas under scrutiny. There will be people who will say that education expenditure has not achieved the results hoped for, that only slight advances have been made and that it is not the children who have gained from Karmel but other people and groups. The natural corollary of this, therefore, is that it is the obvious area to cut back- and that capital building programs should be the first to go. 
Although I shall reserve judgment on these questions, it must be said that many of the shortcomings that have been pointed out are, at least in part, valid criticisms. What must also be said, and said to the Australian people very loudly, is that the blame for weaknesses in the disadvantaged schools program must be laid squarely at the feet of the State government departments and some local government bodies. The Federal Government's policy has been carried out through its programs. There have been serious obstacles which have to be eliminated, but there have also been a lot of rewarding results. I rose here tonight because I am disappointed that for reasons beyond our control- 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is he aware of an article in last week's 'Bulletin' which boldly criticises the Commonwealth Employment Service? Does he know that this article stated that the Northcote branch of the Commonwealth Employment Service recently sent notices to all the people on income maintenance payments scheduling them for an interview at one time? Is it true that more than 1000 people spilled out of the office into the main street of Northcote? Is the Commonwealth Employment Service as insensitive and inefficient as made out in this article? 
Can the Prime Minister say whether the Government has given exhaustive consideration to alternative methods of raising revenue? 

 Mr WHITLAM I certainly can assure the honourable member that the Government gave the most exhaustive consideration to the methods of raising revenue in the present domestic and international economic situation. This was done on the basis of consultations with officials going over many months and with academic people who made their services available. Then, of course, Ministers spent very many days on this matter. Some Ministers in particular, for instance those on the Expenditure Review Committee, had to spend many further days in making these investigations. I am comforted to notice that the revenue measures which the Government has introduced in this Budget are in fact supported by the Opposition. I must confess that when listening to the Leader of the Opposition on Tuesday night I thought he was opposing, and if he had the opportunity he would reject or cancel the revenue measures which the Government has brought in in this Budget. That was the distinct thrust of his remarks. I gained the impression that he was displeased. 
Accordingly, I made the inference, which I believe a very great number of other honourable gentlemen made, that he was advocating the repeal and cancellation of those measures. Of course after the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made an audit he had to issue a clarifying statement yesterday. I suppose a harsher critic than I would say that he issued a correction of his Leader. But it now appears that in fact the Leader of the Opposition would retain the increased postal charges and telecommunications tariffs, that he would retain the increased duties on cigarettes and beer, that he would retain the increases on motor spirits and on potable spirits, and that he would retain the coal export levy. I am happy indeed to have this universal support, this ecumenical endorsement, of the Government's Budget. All the revenue measures to which we have devoted so very many days and weeks of consideration and in respect of which, in their first reaction, the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came out with some particularly vitriolic blasts, are now endorsed and accepted. I do not know what we are arguing about. One has to look at the wording of the statements of the Leader of the Opposition particularly carefully because if one has one's statements drafted by a man like Michael Baume one cannot be surprised if one ends up with a faulty prospectus. 
I rise to speak in this Budget debate because there are a large number of things which need to be said about and to the beneficiaries of the decisions taken by this Government in the framing of the Budget document. More than anything else it is the demands from private enterprise and the capitalist Press which have been responded to in this Budget. Many people are sceptical not so much of the intentions contained therein but of the likelihood of the private sector reacting favourably to them. They are sceptical about the faith that has been put in the disparate and amorphous group called private enterprise to pick up the slack in this economy. The Budget has been well received in the terms of its explicit aims, and rightly so. 
What I intend to do here is to articulate the fears that many have about its success, thereby issuing a challenge to the corporate sector. Many people in my Party and in the community at large believe that capital is on strike and that nothing that this Government does will engender a favourable response. The economic climate in which we are and by which we are surrounded at present can be altered only by government directed spending. There are people who believe that business has forfeited its right to generous access to the public purse and that the overtures in this Budget are wasted because the large employers of labour and the contributors to the national product respond not to governments but to something less tangible and rational. A substantial number of people believe that this Government should have pressed on with and accelerated the construction of new hospitals, schools, railway stock, roads and so on so that at least we could provide alternative employment opportunities and in that way revitalise the demand for consumer and capital goods. 
What did happen? Let us look briefly at the Budget. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  specifically stated that his overriding aim had been the restraint of inflation, a policy which went hand in glove with the desirability of fostering recovery in the private sector, and consolidation of the gains made in the public sector. The rate of growth in public spending has been restrained. Education expenditure has increased only enough to remain constant in real terms. Pensions will now be tied to the consumer price index and although health will receive double last year's allocation and 28 new legal aid offices will be established, the Government staff growth rate and administrative expenditure will be severely curtailed. In the area of receipts there are 4 major items to be noted. The double depreciation provisions for business announced last year have been continued and widened. Company tax has again been reduced by  2Vi  per cent and is now at  42Vi  per cent. Indirect taxes and other charges have been increased and there have been sweeping reforms of Australia's income tax system. Overall, the Budget deficit is estimated to be approximately $2, 790m, compared with $2,560m for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
This Budget is the result of certain demands that saw the private sector as the saviour of our economic situation. What were those demands? The overriding message has been that public expenditure must be slowed in the fight against inflation. Secondly, and equally important, was the demand for taxation relief for the corporate sector. A typical example can be found in the ANZ Bank  Business Indicators  magazine of July last, and I quote from that magazine: 
Providing the Government has the courage to take a substantial cut in its expenditure a deficit of $2,000m to $2,500m might be feasible. Such a deficit should enable measures to be introduced which would foster an increase in private investment. Among measures that will need to be considered are reductions in company tax and personal income taxes, reductions in sales taxes, allowance for accelerated depreciation . . 
The plea from business and the Press alike has been almost unanimous. It has been: 'Put confidence back into companies'. Business confidence is something about which I shall have more to say later. Suffice it to say here that it seems to me that this delicate flower called business confidence- this fragile little petal of a thing- is surely the Daphne of economics. I believe that Daphne has now become a less than rational old whore. Certainly she is more fickle than ever before.  (Opposition members interjecting). 
The honourable members on the other side of the House rush with alacrity to defend their old girlfriend. In any case, the Government acknowledged the importance of putting companies back on their feet after the 1974 credit squeeze. It is a fact that this Government recognised that the corporate sector must contribute more to increasing production, thereby reducing inflation and unemployment. In line with this it has responded to the calls in 2 major areas in this Budget. One can see in both the language and the aims of the Budget and in the strategy outlined that this Government has reacted to the pleas of the private sector. Limiting the growth of Government spending is clearly pro-private sector. The language of the document clearly indicates a concern for business, and the twin measures of double depreciation provisions and a drop in company tax are concrete evidence of this concern. The changes in personal income tax and the obvious multiplier effect in the economy will stimulate business further. 
The argument which brought these changes about is old and well worn. Under inflation the cost of reinvestment or replacement capital and expansion is high because past allowances made for depreciation are inadequate. The inevitable result is that there is no investment, productivity falls and costs increase. The upshot of this is that employees are laid off. So the argument runs that business is motivated purely by profit and if the confidence in what the future holds is low, if profitability of investment is not seen as excellent, then business just does not spend. The stock answer is that the corporate sector must be pandered to. I wonder whether in fact the corporate sector's thinking needs a little changing as well. 
The natural corollary of all this is that business needs direct evidence of the Government providing the conditions under which the ventures of business can be profitable. It is apparently not enough that education and social spending has a multiplier effect on the economy. It is not enough that education expenditure guarantees a rosy future for a vast number of industries in this economy, from the building field down. The evidence must be direct, we are told. It is not enough that the aims and objectives of this Government are clear and that private enterprise should make its decisions in this light. There must be taxation assistance and other sops. All right, there have been. We have given in to the private sector and given it everything it has asked for. But the two most important questions are: first, was it worth chopping a huge hole in the Government's progressive social policies on which a majority of Australians put the Australian Labor Party into office; and, secondly, after all this, will business respond? 
The first question raises the issue of all those legitimate demands on the federal purse that have had to be slashed or ignored. These issues many people see as very important and usually involve helping the have-nots and the helpless in this society. I shall return to this question. The second matter of whether business will respond, brings me back to the old whore- business confidence, the Daphne of economics. Some people would argue that this fragile flower should have already responded to our overtures. That she has not indicates that nothing we do, short of the abolition of taxation altogether, will entice her to respond. It is apparent that her long standing rapacious grip on Australian society has diminished. She has lost interest and is claiming that the money is not good enough. 
Let me briefly outline the Government's record with business prior to this Budget. Last September the currency was devalued. In October the credit squeeze was lifted. November saw personal tax relief, company tax decrease and a big boost to the car industry. In December company tax was deferred, depreciation allowances were doubled and import restrictions were increased. I might add that this concession fulfilled everything for which the textile industry asked. The Government has dropped its capital gains tax to encourage industry and to stimulate demand. We have supported the claim of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd before the Prices Justification Tribunal, which the  Australian  newspaper heralded as engendering a great deal more confidence in the business sector. On 8 August 1975 it was reported that the Government would oppose any real improvement in wages or working conditions in the next 12 months because it would add to labour costs. We can add to all this the claim made in a union submission that over the last 12 months we have given to the private sector $3,000m in special aid to assist faltering companies from production cutbacks and to maintain employment. 
This record is hardly antagonistic to business, and now this Budget will give more help to the fickle old flower of business confidence. A lack of response now surely brings into question whether we should continue to subordinate our aims regarding the welfare of the people to big business priorities. A lack of response now will prove that the corporate infrastructure is basically unsound. I wonder whether we can continue to allow the corporations to demand that society put the claims of profits ahead of wages. As Michael Harrison wrote in  Nation  last December: 
For how much longer will it be accepted that the executive suite is to be  recarpeted  in the struggle against recession, while the people are to have their belts tightened against inflation. 
The fact is that for months the Government has been holding the hand of big business. The Press, hardly the Government's organ, and the public relations magazines of private enterprise have openly acknowledged this fact. The major dailies, the mouthpieces of the banks, the chambers of manufactures and  Rydge's  magazine have all detected a changing and healthy awareness of the private sector. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd has told its readership, for instance, that business need not be fatalistic, that Australia's past periods of economic growth had taken place largely through private sector expansion and that initiative on the part of business is an essential prerequisite to recovery from the present recession. The document from which I quoted earlier stated that the Government should reduce company and personal tax, reduce sales tax and accelerate depreciation on plant. The document continued: 
Any or all or these measures introduced hand in hand with a substantial cut in Government expenditure would provide a strong boost to business confidence and investment. 

 Rydge's magazine in March 1975 detected a change in Government attitude to business and in the business climate. On the basis of the utterances of the mouthpieces of the private sector one cannot but be sceptical of their response to this Budget. 
Once again by way of rationalising the unpredictability of business confidence we are told that facts are not decisive in business but rather it is opinions which lead to decisions. How unfortunate that this seems to be true. On 7 July this year it was reported that share prices made big gains on national stock exchanges during the so-called loans scandal, yet a response to deliberate courtship by the Treasurer does not come readily. It seems that for some, successful government in this country requires not only a total commitment to the corporate sector but also the attribute of clairvoyance. As I have said, my greatest concern is the social cost of these overtures to business. What of all those legitimate demands for decreasing social injustice? The health, welfare and comfort of the  Vh  million people in this country who depend on pensions and benefits could have been enhanced if we did not have to hold the hand of big business. Those who are weak in organisation and resources have had to take a back seat to the well organised and the powerful. 
Many intended moves towards our commitment to abolish poverty have been modified or shelved to decrease Government expenditure. Many people believe that this Budget should not have seen expenditure cuts almost across the board, that in fact there should have been more positive discrimination in favour of lower income groups, that huge allocations should have gone to deserted mothers and fathers, child endowment, public housing, child care and education. That these allocations have not been as large as desired is the direct result of the belief that private enterprise would take consolation from the fact that the Government was putting the brakes on its own spending. For this reason the 
Treasurer has modified or ignored well presented and reasonable submissions from teachers, parents, social welfare groups and pensioner organisations. 
Business must be aware of the fact that many hold it responsible for what they see as the castration of Labor's social welfare program. They should also remember that the plight of the small business in this economy depends on the big fellow 's response to this Budget. The corporate sector must begin to re-invest. I believe that the options are fairly clear. The opportunity cost of the Budget cutting back the only growth area in the economy- the public sector- without the slack being taken up is immense. If business does not react I submit that it will forfeit its right to make this nation's economic decisions, and rather that a government directed and affected decision-making process take over. What business must accept and what the conservative political forces have also yet to accept is that this society has undergone considerable change since the expansion of post-war years. 
We now live in what has been called the postwar industrial society. In this society a great deal more power and credibility have been given to the emerging intellectual and scientific groups. Quality of life issues like urban affairs, pollution, education and future oriented political thinking characterise these people's attitudes. The nation's affairs and planning therefore must take heed of these sentiments. In a society demanding expenditure in these areas, social and economic relationships change. In the same way the Government's role alters also. It is of little use that business leaders look at an increasing Government sector and heavy spending in public areas with fear. It is not, as they believe, inherently damaging to private enterprise. It is a fact of life- and it must continue- that business will never again have the exploitative and unequal powers that were vested in it during the 1950s and 1960s. It must realise that its hope, and Australia's, is in producing a bigger national cake to be divided and not in trying to regain its former portion of the existing cake. 
The Government's activity in this economy need not be seen as damaging to business, but rather it must be accepted that legislators now have an increased role in order to eliminate injustice and poverty and provide for the future of this nation. The present Government occupies the treasury bench because it responded to these future oriented demands from the electorate. Labor's commitment to dozens of new areas of Federal involvement has attracted the young educated voters of outer Melbourne and Sydney. These people see the need for a shift of resources from private to public areas and as a consequence government in this society and economy has changed. This is a non-reversible and undeniable reality. Where the private enterprise system breaks down governments are duty bound to become involved in the maintenance of productive employment of workers and resources. This may be necessary on a large scale if the private sector does not in its own self interest respond to government overtures. 
Unemployment of this nation's resources will lead not only to the misery of thousands but also possibly to industrial and civil strife. The striking business sector must realise this and it is my submission that if it continues to whinge and expects the Government to be its milking cow, if it fails to take up the challenge of working our way out of this recession, it will be asking for the public sector to upsurp its role. It is now big business which is on trial. The Government has yielded. The ball is now in the court of big business. It must use it. The alternative is socialism, under which the whims and fancies of the too greedy and the too elitist in the economy are eliminated. That is how I see the situation, and it is of no moment to me that honourable members opposite are trying by their words and their actions to undermine confidence and progress at every turn. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  can nark and predict doom for ever and a day; but that does not alter the fact that this is a Budget for the private sector, and it is time that it reacted. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Education. Is the honourable gentleman aware of the countless examples of deprived schools which receive extensive federal funding but which cannot use the money and equipment effectively because the State authorities are not acting responsibly and fairly with regard to their duties to such schools? Is he specifically aware of the plight of the Helen Street State School in Northcote, Melbourne, which has received extensive funding from this Government? Is our well intended and proper allocation of money substantially reduced in value in a school which suffers total neglect from the State Government and its do-nothing Minister? Can he ensure that the school will not be neglected? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has seen reports that the Government is planning to bypass the Parliament in order to continue administering its affairs. Can he say how it is possible to govern without Parliament and what evidence exists to show that the proposal is being considered? 
-The tradition has been to open one's AddressinReply speech by congratulating  Mr Speaker  on his elevation to that most important position. I congratulate both the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  on his election as  Speaker  and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. While talking about tradition I guess there are many reasons now for not deviating from what has happened in the distant past. Certainly some of the more recently established rules of the game are of dubious worth. Doubtless, however, they have made a place for the honourable Leader of the Government  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his fellow stooges in the history books of the future. However, apart from the still distasteful occurrences of the last few months there are some other traditions that I would like to mention in this speech. The first is that this country once again has a traditional, conservative and inactive Government. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to speak at this time because of a deep concern with the obvious large number of examples of sinister malpractice during the last federal election campaign. The examples of contravention of section 156 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act are too many for any member of Parliament to ignore. I am, of course, referring to that section of the Act which says in part: 
Any person who gives or takes any valuable consideration, advantage, recompense, reward, or benefit, for or on account of any such candidature, withdrawal or vote shall be guilty of bribery. 
I do not want to labour unnecessarily the case of the former Minister for Post and Telecommunications nor to prejudge him. However, I feel that in the face of other evidence of similar cases the Government and the relevant Minister are not treating the matter with due zeal. Why, in fact, are the Commonwealth Police looking only - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I hope the honourable member for Batman is not referring to the case that at the present stage is before the court. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, if that were the case I have already done it but I assure you I am not referring to that case. If you allow me to go on I think you will understand that that is not my intention. It is certainly not my intention this evening,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you will hear as I proceed. Why in fact are the Commonwealth Police looking only at one case, that of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and  Mr George  Branson and not at others- for instance the allegations made by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  or the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  and after I conclude my opening remarks- the events in my own electorate of Batman? 
Obviously one reason is that there is clear evidence that something fishy went on in the Australian Capital Territory. However, this is now a matter for the courts. But whatever the reason,  Sir, it  is not good enough. My good friend, the honourable member for Robertson, has made in this House similar grave charges in relation to his own electorate. He, as I, would not do this lightly. Why, then, has it been overlooked that he has indicated that no fewer than 4 men were asked to oppose him and to direct their preferences to the Liberal candidate? Why is the word of no less a figure than the  Deputy  Shire  President  of the Gosford Shire Council not heeded? He claims that he was offered expenses to run for election, and it was he who claims that three others were approached. One, a  Mr Smith,  did run and directed his preferences to the Conservative candidate. Why are there no investigations to uncover how his expensive campaign was funded? The same thing happened to my colleague, the honourable member for Banks. Will there be an investigation into the Independent candidate in his electorate, one Denise Merle Arrow, who had the advantage of having her name on top of the ballot paper? Will there be any study made of where her finances came from and which Party workers handed out her how-to-vote cards? I am sure the honourable member for Banks would welcome such an investigation. 
But now,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  my chief concern is the election campaign in Batman, my own electorate. Captain Sam Benson, a highly regarded and very successful former representative for Batman, and in fact my predecessor, I am led to believe was offered $5,000 to run as an Independent and to direct his preferences to the Liberals. It was not only unlikely that he would do this as an ex-Australian Labor Party member but also unlikely that he would accept a bribe. 
Furthermore, as many will know, my electorate came under notice for the fairly stormy reception it gave to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on his brief and premeditated, violencepromoting visit to the Northcote Town Hall during the campaign. After that meeting the Prime Minister referred to the demonstrators as 'mindless thugs' and condemned the violence. I am opposed to violence myself but now I have a little more thuggery and violence to bring to the attention of this House. It is to do with not only bribes but also a death threat. In addition, it does not emanate from the perceptive Labor supporters who turned out to repel  Mr Fraser.  It involves his own supposedly charming, benign, non-violent supporters- blue rinses and all! 
After realising that Sam Benson was moral and not able to be bought in the battle for Batman some of the locals thought they would try the ethnic groups. An Italian girl who lives in the electorate and works in a factory there was offered $50 and a week's leave on full pay.  Her  part of the bargain was to encourage her ghastly ALP supporting family to take down their pro- Labor signs and to vote for the Liberal candidate. Needless to say, she refused the offer, showing the customary integrity and honesty of Labor-minded people. Avarice, it would seem, is the province of the Conservatives. However, this knockback did not quash the diminutive but sturdy Liberals in Batman. In fact, after recent events one wonders what would. Money not proving to be the answer, they turned to violence. Strangely, this 'mindless thuggery' coincided with the visit of the Prime Minister to Batman. On 10 December a closed meeting of Liberals was held at the Northcote Town Hall, admission to which was by entree card only. After this meeting I was sought out by a petrified Italian gentleman who owns a shop in Northcote and who makes no secret of his support for the ALP. This man, who is getting well on in years, had received a death threat written in Italian. But, more importantly, it was written on the back of an entree card to  Mr Fraser  's meeting. It seems that this gentleman had committed the terrible sin of putting an ALP poster in the window of his shop. The note read, and I quote as roughly translated: 
Watch for the bomb, you Italian bastard- you die soon. 
Well, this is to be seen, because having regard to gentlemen such as you, who voted to send 500 kids to die in Vietnam, you would have no conscience about seeing an ALP man killed.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  these are the tactics of a Party which claims to abhor violence. So, not counting the cases in other electorates- only three of which are public knowledge- in my own electorate there was: Firstly the offer of money to a prospective Independent candidate if he would direct his preferences to the Liberals; secondly, there was the offer of money and a holiday in return for retraction of a family's political affiliations; and thirdly, when all else failed there was the ultimate weapon, a death threat to an old man who unashamedly supports my return to this Parliament. 
If the claims by the honourable member for Robertson or the honourable member for Banks are not enough for the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  to set investigations moving, surely these added examples of malpractice in my own electorate demand attention. It is hard in this day and age, when tradition and principle are trampled on with wanton aggression, to place much faith in democratic forms and rules. However, where there are cases of contravention of not only the rules of the game but also the Commonwealth Electoral Act then the readymade machinery must be swung into action. The Attorney-General must stop his hedging and shelving to save the necks of his own Party members and supporters. To make an example of one isolated case is not good enough. I call on the Minister to have not only the guts but also the moral fibre to set the Commonwealth Police on to these matters of grave import and wide concern. 
-Is the Prime Minister concerned that the Attorney-General refuses to act on the many reports of flagrant breaches of the Commonwealth Electoral Act? As the AttorneyGeneral has not undertaken his responsibilities in this regard, will the Prime Minister investigate the allegations regarding contravention of section 156 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act? Will he report to this Parliament about such matters in the electorates of Robertson and Banks and my electorate of Batman, or does he think that Liberal bribes to Independents in elections are fair play? 
I am delighted to have the opportunity to support the amendment for 2 reasons. Firstly, it highlights some of the gross omissions in the GovernorGeneral's Speech and therefore the terribly elitist nature of this Government and its program. Secondly, it allows me to expand and reiterate some of the things my colleagues and I have been saying in this House in the last fortnight. This second element is of great relevance to this amendment insofar as it highlights the arrogance which is the base of the omissions referred to in paragraph (c) of the amendment. I will begin by talking about this part of the amendment. 
The fact that the Speech by the GovernorGeneral was a vague exercise in the juxtaposition of cliches and generous but hollow sentiments is an indication of this Government's deception and arrogance, but when one looks at what is not mentioned the really repellent nature of the document becomes clear. The elitism and reactionary style of this Government cannot be better evidenced than by the fact that- and I quote from the amendment- 'the proposals outlined in the Speech are so framed as to cause a major transfer of resources from middle and low income families to those on higher income levels'. I therefore have no hesitation in supporting this amendment and condemning the arrogance of this 'make-the-people-pay' Government. 
The Robin Hood in reverse style of this Government sticks in my gullet. Social and economic giants and exploiters get the lot and the helpless, the weak and the poorly organised have to tighten their belts accordingly. How the tools of capital opposite can bear themselves in the knowledge that it is the pensioners, the Aborigines, the people in need of health care and pharmaceutical benefits, the migrants, those needing legal aid and others in depressed sectors who are affected by this program, is absolutely beyond me. I have always known that the gentlemen opposite were stooges for big business, but I was deluded enough to believe that some had a modicum of humanity and even social conscience. Where are the much applauded and grossly overrated small '1' liberals? How can they tolerate the knowledge that their Government has taken from pensioners their funeral benefit? How can they tolerate the knowledge that $7m has been sliced from Aboriginal Affairs spending, $34m from health care, $9m from child care and $30m from environment, housing and consumer affairs? They can tolerate it because they are not small '1' liberals at all. They are purely and totally reactionaries with no social conscience, stooges and rubber stamps for the neofascist leadership of their Party and malleable clay in the hands of exploitative and immoral representatives of capital and privilege in this society. If they were anything different they would have spoken up by now. They would have shown the moral fibre which some deluded people have credited them with. They have not and they will not. They accept these drastic and hurtful parts of the Government's program because the people they care about are not those who need help but those who, if left to their own devices, will be able to strangle this economy in their own interests and to the advantage of the terribly few. They have been bought off by a farcical committee system and they have turned their backs on the transfer of resources from the poor, as outlined in the Governor-General's Speech and as clearly identified in this amendment. 
Let me now turn to the second element of the amendment which my colleague, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  moved with such perception and compassion. Paragraph (b) reads: the Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the Constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian Parliamentary system. 
This omission is of vital importance for two very obvious reasons. Firstly, inherent in the whole of the Governor-General's Speech is the danger that the vile and anti-democratic occurrences of November 1975 could be repeated at any time in the future should the situation that existed in the Senate at that time exist again. The GovernorGeneral's Speech, in making no reference to this, points to the fact that he and his Government do not find this possibility repugnant. Well, a vast number of Australians do. Some of them are even Liberals. The dangers of such a recurrence are quite clear and even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his more rational and less dishonourable moments, has acknowledged them. Hollow as his words are, they are worth quoting because he hits a nerve and simultaneously exposes his own connivance and dishonesty. On 2 March 1975, in a radio broadcast to his electorate over station 3HA he said: 
If the Parliament becomes unworkable by destruction of convention, democracy itself becomes unworkable because democracy rests much more on adherence to convention than to the rigid application of rules and laws . . . 
There are many challenges to the preservation of Parliament . . . 
These problems alone would be daunting for present legislators and Ministers. 
If we add to that list the problems created by the behaviour of Parliament itself- the destruction of convention, the defiance of reason, the pursuit of power without concern for the rights and privileges of minorities- Australians will have little faith in the future of Australian democracy. 
I cannot say how delighted I am to be able to quote the right honourable gentleman's own words and to agree with them. I am, however, a good deal less pleased that he does not mean them. I doubt that he meant them then. If he still does, or ever did, think there was a shade of truth in them, why did he not incorporate such sentiments in the address to the Parliament by  His Excellency  the Governor-General? The lack of such sentiments is precisely what the amendment is referring to. We on this side of the House are terribly concerned that the absence of such a comment in this matter means an absence of regard for the very fabric of our democratic forms. I personally am concerned because it seems that such an oversight is deliberate and, furthermore, is consistent with the attitudes of this arrogant Government. 
In the same way as this Government has passed over any formal indication of concern for the dismantling of democracy over which it presided last year, it is now overlooking and disregarding issues which my colleagues and I have raised as democrats and as people very concerned about proper representation in this House and responsiveness to this representation. There are many examples of warnings, questions and allegations of incredible seriousness and widespread concern which this Government has hedged on, disregarded and ignored. It is this sort of arrogance to which the amendment is pointing and about which I am greatly concerned. Surely, if nearly 50 per cent of the people in a democratic country are not only hopeful but also adamant that another constitutional crisis will not occur, then it is reasonable that a government should acknowledge and dispel such fears. The voters of this country and specifically their representatives on this side of the House have been trampled on and treated with the tactics of the blind eye and the deaf ear on all sorts of matters. Surely, the issue alluded to in the amendment should not be added to this list. This Government cannot and must not be allowed to ride roughshod over people of any political colour. Let me restate to the House paragraphs (b) and (c) of the amendment: 
the Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure that there cannot be a recurrence of the Constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian Parliamentary system; and 
the proposals outlined in the Speech are so framed as to cause the major transfer of resources from middle and low income families to those on higher income levels. 
Taken together, do these sections point to grave omissions? Do they highlight a certain arrogance and disregard for ordinary people? Of course they do. This Government has been elected with a very great majority; yet it does not regard as important the need to represent a very great majority of people in this House. To me, that is not only frightening but also frightful. Time and time again the Government has shown that it does not care for people, despite its duty to represent and heed all whom it governs. This selectiveness must be reversed. In fact, though, I guess that the document which the Governor-General presented to this Parliament is a fair representation of the Government's views. It does indicate that this country will not be lorded over with any regard to the Opposition or the many substantial groups in society who do not totally agree with the conservative political philosophy. 
For this reason, the Address-in-Reply should be passed without amendment, as a testimony to this Government's total elitism. However, we on this side of the House cannot let that happen. We have to try to imbue honourable members opposite with a little compassion and try to convince them of the need to be truly representative. In supporting this amendment, this is what I am attempting to do. Dealing with such men, though, is a Herculean task and one must, at the outset, hold out little hope. In attempting to make honourable members opposite see the need for acknowledgment of the shortcomings of  His  Excellency's Speech, we have been confronted with the all-too-common brick wall of Liberal and National Country Party intransigence. It is the same brick wall as the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and I encountered when we made allegations of real substance about electoral dishonesty and malpractice. It is the brick wall that said: 'We don't care about death threats or bribes in elections as long as they help us'. It is the same brick wall that says: 'Who cares about Central Intelligence Agency involvement in the last Federal elections? We won didn't we?' 
This is the same arrogance which led to the grave omissions in the original motion to accept the Governor-General's opening speech. Well, let the Government leave its motion unchanged. Let it ride roughshod over what honourable members in this place have said. All will be incorporated in  Hansard  and people will judge this sinister and elitist group of men charged with responsibility for our nation. However, one cannot help but ask: 'What will it take for this Government to act responsibly and responsively?' I am afraid that its members are completely devoid of conscience. Its program obviously and unashamedly discriminates against the weak and the poor- in fact, the majority of people. That its actions in day-to-day government disregard pleas in the interests of such people indicates that we are in for a torrid, in fact horrid, 3 years of Liberal-National Party Government. 
Finally, I turn to the first section of the amendment. It states: . . . but note that (a) the Speech makes no acknowledgment of the financial pre-eminence of the House of Representatives. 
Initially, I must say that whatever the state of the numbers in the Senate may now be this is an issue of paramount importance. At this time the Liberal Party and the National Country Party are not under any threat- there is no likelihood of the Senate obstructing money Bills- but they should not therefore conclude that they have no reason to worry about such matters. Such shortsightedness, characteristic as it is, will not be anything but harmful in the long run. Honourable gentlemen opposite would do well to consider the problems of government given a hostile Senate. Although they may gain some pleasure from the memories of this in the last 3 years they should attempt to put themselves in a similar situation. As pragmatists they should be able to understand the problems. I do not expect them to take up, as democrats, the suggestions in the amendment. They have already proven beyond doubt that they are not such people. Nevertheless, for the good of future governments and in accord with the spirit of paragraph (b) of the amendment they should have no hesitation in accepting the judgment of my learned friend the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  Whether they now believe that the Senate has treated them well because such powers reside in that chamber and consequently those powers should remain, they must see the wisdom of preventing this situation continuing. 
The same thing as happened to the former Labor Government could happen to the present Government and although it would be its just desserts it would be incredibly harmful to our political system. The Government has already harmed it irreparably- it has got what it wantsbut now, for goodness sake, it must see that it will not happen again. In closing, I repeat that I cannot recommend the amendment too strongly because it at least identifies the substantial and vile holes in the Governor-General's Speech. In doing so I urge the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to show a little compassion to those with whom he is saddling the hardships. I think it is probably a waste of breath but at least people should understand what sort of amoral men are running this country. 
I rise to speak today because of recent moves in the field of employment and industrial relations, or more accurately the draconian way in which the Fraser Government has taken the axe to the innocent and the weak in this field. Under this Government Jesus Christ would be ineligible for unemployment benefit. They would declare him a vagrant, they would say he dressed poorly and associated with undesirables, wore a beard and was a carpenter who left his trade to live without work. Worse than that, he would be regarded as a mindless visionary with no right to the public purse. Be that as it may, draconian measures are insensitive and are to be condemned for that alone. What is worse is the vile arrogance of this Government in its execution of such policies. I have repeatedly raised this characteristic of the present Government in this place, but it seems that the total elitism is inextricably tied up with the leaders' philosophy. They are men who are white Anglo-Saxon Protestants, heirs of squattocracy and big business interests, rich beyond comprehension of most Australians, people who have not known poverty or war or even the mundanity or nuisance of city life. How would they understand the real tragedy of people being out of work? No doubt it would be difficult but not impossible if they would try. But they will not or do not try because it suits them not to. I wish to quote from page 581 of last week's edition of  Nation Review,  where Mungo MacCallum stated - 
If the honourable gentleman would listen he might learn something. Mungo MacCallum stated: 
In the lexicon of Malcolm Fraser, 'bludger' means anyone who can't get a job. 'Dole bludger' means someone who can't get a job who is receiving the unemployment benefit, and 'dole cheat' means someone who can't get the son of job he wants and is still receiving the unemployment benefit. 
He continued: 
The new provisions read as though they have been deliberately designed to inflict the maximum possible hardship and personal humiliation on Australia's 200 000 unemployed. 
Or, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would have it, Australia's 200 000 bludgers. Despite the fact that the experts say that in all truth there are very few real dole cheats, this Government holds the cretinous view, the bourgeois and prejudiced view, that people who do not work or who cannot work are bludgers, that the lower class which the Prime Minister despises might be able to exist, however poorly, without putting a lot of effort into it. The fact that nine out of every ten people without work are suffering hardship does not concern the Government or those on the other side. That is made even more ugly by the fact that it is so hypocritical. The Prime Minister is a man of considerable inherited wealth who has never worked at anything in his life in terms of the possibilities open to the people he labels as bludgers. 
The same arrogant, inhumane and elitist attitude which says that if a young person from a poor family, without assets, wants to look around for agreeable work with good prospects and is on unemployment benefits then he is a bludger, also says that if another young chap with assets who can live with his family for a while does the same thing, then society admires him and describes what he is doing as looking for work. As an outgrowth of that we have the spectacle of the rural farming community, which accepts and in fact expects federal aid for its beef operations or grazing requirements but bitterly opposes all social programs that do not concern it. Worse, it rejects the philosophy behind programs not directly helping it as being a socialist drain on the public purse. This animosity to bludgers has made unemployment a dirty word, and has hidden the really horrendous experiences of being without work. The Government's new crackdown on those receiving benefits will make life even harder for the genuinely out of work but, according to the conservative philosophy, this is OK as long as they catch the bludgers. 
This simple-minded phobia with bludgers, the numerical strength of whom is unknown and irrelevant to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is taking on similarities to, and the dangers of, ridding a neighbourhood of a stray cat. The Minister, like the cat chaser, is so preoccupied with catching the offender that in trying to poison the minority or stray animal he kills everyone else's cat in the district. In the analogy, killing all cats in the neighbourhood is a big price to pay when you cannot be sure you will get the stray. Similarly, single-minded chasing of dole bludgers will drag down the majority of legitimately unemployed people. However, apart from the ludicrous nature of the game the Minister is playing, what really concerns me is the fact that this prejudice against alleged dole bludgers ignores the real tragedy of people out of work. Social welfare worker Graeme Brewer of the Brotherhood of St Laurence has found that the ratio of jobless people to job vacancies stands at 1 1 to one, and for young people it is even higher. He said in the  Age  on 29 January 1976: 
When I returned to Australia last year I was amazed to find all this  'scapegoating'  of the unemployed. It's far, far worse than in Britain where the unemployment problem is much greater. I think it's because Australia is basically a country of vast middle-class affluence and this blinds people to the real problems of unemployment . . . this violent reaction to a tiny number of dole cheats has clouded the whole issue and a lot of out-of-work people with serious problems are suffering as a result. 
While all this talk of bludgers preoccupies the free-thinking and perceptive legislators of the Government side, they are in simple fact hiding the truth that nothing is being done to solve the very real problems of unemployment. It is in fact a cunning, cynical and utterly vile use of the oldest trick in the book, the red herring. It is similar to the Jew-baiting tactics used by Hitler. 
Really and truly, how many people want and enjoy living on the pittance they receive on the dole? Does this miniscule number of people really put an overly large burden on the federal coffers? Of course not. The whole issue is a smokescreen to distract people from the truth of the matter. That truth is that this Government has not done and will not do anything to allay the suffering of the huge majority of legitimately and hurtfully unemployed. Quite the opposite is in fact happening. Current government policy is only making the hardship worse. The dole is not enough to live on as it is. Yet the Government is making it harder to get and even harder to keep. It is the age-old Liberal-National Country Party trick of bleeding the wealth from those who really need it and giving it to those who are already wealthy. I do not know how honourable members opposite can live with themselves in the knowledge that it is people like the unemployed and the pensioners who subsidise large landholders and big business. In their view, the unemployed must be kicked from pillar to post to enable the Government to allocate money for a superphosphate bounty. According to the Government, it is untenable that a worker should get $37 a week from the Government, but it is legitimate for economic fat cats not to pay tax. It is the same argument that says: It is fair for the business lunch of steak and martinis to be tax deductible, but not for the working man's lunch of peanut butter sandwiches. Possibly the most dangerous part of these attitudes is the shortsightedness of them. 
The fact simply is that never again will Australia have the low unemployment we came to expect in the 1960s. No doubt for short periods in our future the pool of unemployed workers will be greatly reduced, but over a long period it is just not on. Australia, like England and the United States of America, has a degenerate Western capitalist economy. Such economies, or the controllers of them, have no place for full employment. It is not in their interests. Worse still though, automation as a growing characteristic can only add to the problem if there is not a good deal of thought leading to rationalisation. This Government and all policy makers should take a good long look at the obvious trends in our economy. Whether or not 'government planning' is a dirty expression for the  bourgeoisie,  it has to become a reality in this economy. If we leave economic growth and development in the hands of the disparate or, of necessity, selfish groups known as capital, then like the United States we will have to come to terms with consistent unemployment levels of over 5 per cent. Mindless utterances about dole bludgers and drainers of the public purse will not alter the situation. Loud, intransigent and meaningless condemnations of those unfortunate enough to be unemployed will not take the problem away. It is here and needs recognition and subsequent planning. I call on the Minister to stop his illdisguised game of smokescreening. He is fooling no one and hurting many. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It is now fifteen minutes to one o'clock. In accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted and I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation. Is it not a fact that in repatriation hospitals certificate and diploma allowances are paid to all nursing staff with specialist qualifications, with the exception of qualified nursing teachers? Is it not a fact that because of this, no qualified nursing teacher will remain in the Repatriation General Hospital at Heidelberg after 30 June 1976 and that the hospital will then cease to be a registered general nursing school? What action is the Minister taking to prevent this from happening and to prevent the consequent drastic reduction in the nursing staff available to care for patients at Heidelberg? 
-I address a question to the Attorney-General. Is the Attorney-General aware that the serious shortage of judges with the Family Court of Australia is slowing its proceedings very markedly? Is he not concerned that the Court cannot work to give people prompt help under the present conditions? Will he respond favourably to the many calls from legal practitioners for more judges and additional staff to be appointed so that what is basically fine legislation can be made to work as was intended? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Is the Prime Minister aware that the new policy of federal aid to municipalities is worrying all people in local government because it is a departure from such main sources of finance as the Australian Grants Commission and the area improvement program? Does he know that the lack of precise information as to the implementation of this policy is a chief cause of concern and that, more importantly, the fact that the - 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that a volunteer group in my electorate of Batman has organised a program for unemployed self-help? If so, does he know that this group, like others, wishes to establish a resources and drop-in centre for unemployed people so they can contact each other in an attempt to discuss common problems and solve the worries of finding jobs, filling in application forms and knowing how to present themselves when going for a position? Having regard to the fact that these are widespread problems and that this sort of organisation will do much to help, will the Minister consider government funding for such centres, particularly the one in Batman? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. I ask: Does the Public Service regulation governing transport home by taxi after overtime duties for female personnel still apply? If so, can he tell me why a resident of my electorate who is employed in the Melbourne office of a Federal Government department would be denied the safety of a taxi home after working until 9.30 p.m.? Can the Prime Minister assure me that proper measures will be taken to ensure the continued safety of female personnel travelling home after completion of overtime work? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the United States Central Intelligence Agency has admitted to spending 30 per cent of its budget in financing right wing political parties throughout the world. 
If so, can the Minister give an assurance that the CIA has no ties in Australia. 
) Does the Government intend to take action to require political parties to declare the sources of their election funds in order to clear the doubts of people in regard to CIA activity in elections in Australia. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many constituents of the Electoral Division of Batman are recipients of social security payments. 
How many (a) old-age, (b) invalid and (c) deserted wives pensioners are there in the Electoral Division. 
Are these numbers a high percentage of constituents relative to other Electoral Divisions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he, as reported, pleased with the level of recruitment to the Defence Forces so far this year. 
Is it a fact that despite a general cut-back in Government advertising a recruiting campaign for the Defence Forces has been launched this year at an estimated cost of $2m; if so, why has the campaign been undertaken, especially in the present economic climate. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many first and second generation migrants live in the Electoral Division of Batman. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many children are there of school age in the Electoral Division of Batman. 
What percentage of these children are first or second generation Australians. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the InterGovernmental Group on Indonesia is meeting in Amsterdam on 9 and 10 June? If so, will the Prime Minister outline the Australian Government's attitude to this meeting? Is he aware of the Indonesian call for extra aid funding in this coming year, which is due partly to the millions being spent on Indonesia's invasion? Bearing in mind the continued Indonesian invasion of East Timor and the blatant ignoring of United Nations calls for a withdrawal, is the Australian Government considering making its views on East Timor known at the meeting of the InterGovernmental Group on Indonesia? Further, is the Australian Government prepared to urge members of the IGGI to withhold assistance to Indonesia until the United Nations Security Council resolutions have been implemented? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission is considering making a grant to the in-service Advisory Committee of the Victorian Institute of Early Childhood Development. 
If so, will the Minister give top priority to urging speedy approval of the grant as the Institute receives no Government assistance for its in-service courses and the money is needed urgently. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
Did the Government reverse the previous Government's policy of favouring a nuclear-free zone; if so, does this mean that its primary defence consideration is to safeguard United States interests in the Pacific region. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the total sum that has been spent by Federal Governments on schools in the Electoral Division of Batman since 1973. 
Of this sum, what is the total federal expenditure on (a) private secondary schools, (b) private primary schools, (c) State secondary schools, (d) State primary schools, and (e) Catholic schools. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the school population of the Electoral Division ofBatman. 
What was the actual  per capita  expenditure from federal sources on this population in the last 3 years. 
What was the actual  per capita  expenditure on school children in the Electoral Divisions of Kooyong and Higgins in the same period. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the report in the  Sydney Morning Herald of 22  April 1976 that RAAF helicopters may be sent to the Middle East as part of the United Nations peace-keeping force and that they may be used for search and rescue operations in the Sinai. 
If so, is this the intention of the Government and, as there are no civilians in the desert, who is it intended to rescue. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in the Electoral Division of Batman are unemployed. 
2 ) What proportion of these persons are ( a ) migrants, ( b ) over 50 years of age, (c) under 25 years of age and (d) women. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
How many loans for the construction of defence service homes in the electoral division of Batman have been approved since 1969. 
How many defence service homes now exist in the electoral division. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government refuse to grant a visa to  Mr Eddie  Zananiri, the Palestinian student leader while Israel's General Bar-lev was allowed to enter Australia to address a Zionist fund raising function in Sydney; if so, what was the reason for the refusal. 
Did the refusal of the Government have anything to do with the fact that  Mr Zananiri  is regarded as a freedom fighter or terrorist. 
In granting permission for General Bar-lev to enter Australia was the Government aware that he (a) commanded an armoured column in the 19S6 invasion of the Sinai, (b) was Deputy Chief of Staff of the Israeli army during the 1 967 war and (c) became Chief of Staff in 1 968. 
If so, what is the difference between the position of General Bar-lev and that of  Mr Zananiri. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that in the Electoral Division of Batman the delay between an application for, and the installation of, telephones is up to 9 months for businesses and up to 12 months for individuals. 
If so, what are the reasons for these inordinate delays. 
How many applications for telephones did the Telecom sales office have to handle in the last 12 months in the Electoral Division of Batman. 
Will he give consideration to expanding the operations of that office, as it seems the staff is not sufficient at its present level. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that while reports are being issued in relation to cut-backs in social welfare and the public service an additional $660 million is to be spent on the Army during the next 5 years. 
Are Liberal-National Country Party priorities weighted so that big business interests can prosper and feel safe behind solid defences. 
Does he share the concern that such priorities may lead to the sacking and under-payment of workers, the education of children of migrants and poor people in slum-like schools, the near starvation of pensioners and the humiliation and economic hardship of the unemployed. 
-Despite the generalised and slogan filled diatribe of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  I have absolutely no hesitation, in fact I act with the greatest fervour, in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The honourable member for Curtin raved about Labor's years of reform but he substantiated nothing. I have no hesitation in supporting the statement by the Leader of the Opposition because this Budget is one of political conservatism, economic anachronism and bankruptcy, social heartlessness, elitism and cruelty. From the day this Government aborted our already conservative constitutional conventions so as to steal office, there has been no doubt that the Liberal-National Country Party alliance is one of political reactionaries; that the FraserAnthonyLynch triumvirate is the political wing of the capitalist class. This Budget proves beyond doubt that they are the political jack boot of big business, a jack boot that is mercilessly and successfully stamping into the dirt all who are without means. Their political leanings are not in doubt. 
What I want to discuss tonight are the economic fallacies and social cruelty which go hand in glove with this reactionary Government's political leanings. The absolute bankruptcy of the Lynch economic manifesto hardly needs any exposing because the Leader of the Opposition exposed it so adequately earlier this evening. In a time when he wants to stimulate business and thus the economy, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  takes away from that sector the prospect of government contracts. While he is talking about consumer-led recovery, he deliberately eats great holes in real disposable income through the Arbitration Commission and health care costs. When only one area of the economy- government enterprise- can withstand the vicissitudes of the ill-fated and delicate notion of business confidence, he slashes it to the bone. It is clear that this man either talks with a forked tongue or is a simple-minded buffoon. Some of the Treasurer's sentiments, or at least his words, may seem fine, but his actions belie them. I say to the Treasurer: 'Beware of half truths, because you might have the wrong half. 
Of course, we all expected a normal LiberalNational Country Party Budget- the usual cliches, the usual reactionary elitist stuff- but the Treasurer has gone further than this. In order to do so, he had to go back into time. I know that the grey men of the Treasury often are regarded as old and conservative, but surely we cannot blame them for the pre-Keynesian thinking that is so evident in this Budget. The Treasurer's recent statements have all been to do with the need for a fillip to business and with the natural corollary that everyone else must tighten his belt. The simple facts are firstly, that the contractionary nature of the Budget will lead to vast unemployment because of the fall in aggregate demand, especially through a decline in consumer, government and business spending; and, secondly, that the whole rationale of the economic package does not attack the basic ills of the economy- that is, the structural imbalance caused by elements such as obsolescence, protection and multinational corporate activities. That the Treasurer's thinking is positively archaic and pre-Keynesian is easily evidenced. The economic theories of J. M. Keynes may well be outdated, but it seems incredible that the man who controls the purse strings of this nation has chosen to ignore, fails to understand or is not acquainted with the thinking of the major economists who blow holes through the classical economic theories of the last century. 
In 1936 Keynes argued in his  General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money  that the classical economics which had aided and abetted the world 's most severe depression simply stood in the way of, rather than explaining, the large scale unemployment and depression. These classical theories assumed that unemployment was voluntary; that people were unemployed because they demanded excessively high wages. In other words, these much discredited theorists used the phrases that have become hackneyed under our beloved Treasurer- the phraseology of the nineteenth century. Whether Keynes was arguing against the mindless utterances of Ricardo, Say, Adam Smith or Phillip Lynch, the fact is that unemployment exists not because of excessive demands for wages but because the demand for goods and services is too low. In other words, we have unemployment in this country because firms, people and now the Government are not demanding enough of the products that the labour force is capable of producing. 
This raises 2 main issues: Firstly- this is a point with which I will deal more fully in this speech- that much of our production is irrelevant, unnecessary and wasteful; and, secondly, that the level of demand is way below the optimum. In such circumstances, it seems absurd that the Treasurer is taking steps to reduce aggregate demand rather than to give it the necessary boost. Although the honourable gentleman uses economic terms with gay abandon it seems that he has only the most meagre knowledge of them. For his benefit and that of his lackeys opposite I shall explain them in the most simple terms possible. Aggregate demand comprises consumer spending, private investment and public investment. Let us look at these in turn. Consumer spending must inevitably decline because of the inroads that have been made on personal disposable incomes. With 2 arbitration decisions denying proper wage adjustments and the added cost of health care the consumer's purchasing power has taken a battering. 
Despite the so-called 'lollies' to business, private investment must also inevitably decline for not only will there be a slackening of consumer demand as a result of falling incomes but also more importantly the loss of contracts, due to slashing of government current and fixed capital expenditure, will have far-reaching multiplier and accelerator effects throughout the economy, perhaps taking unemployment to the amazing, not to say frightening, level of 10 per cent in the new year. Surely this is simple enough for even the Treasurer to comprehend. More expenditure means more jobs. But of course I am overlooking one thing: The Treasurer does not care about unemployment. Unfortunately he does not understand that a fully employed labour force is an intrinsic part of economic prosperity. The fact is that investment or expenditure on investment goods like machines, factories and houses, has the multiplier effect of creating jobs both directly and indirectly. It can be private or public expenditure but it must be public or government initiated. 
When there is a large shortfall of this sort of expenditure from the private sector the Government simply must invest in public works. To pull out so private enterprise may take up the slack assumes firstly that private enterprise will react; secondly, that it will react quickly enough and, thirdly, that it will react in areas beneficial to the nation. Even the most timid cynic would have to say that the amorphous, irrational and selfishly motivated group which we call 'business' cannot be relied upon for such purposes. The effect of reversing the Labor Government's public spending initiatives at a time when other areas of aggregate demand are depressed is economic madness. 
Look at the building industry in New South Wales, for example, where we have the deepest crisis seen for decades. Even the Executive Director of the New South Wales Master Builders Association has been forced to condemn the Government, describing its refusal to provide funds for building as 'nothing short  or  reprehensible '. That is a hackneyed phrase of the Government. According to the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 3 August, Colin Bignall,  President  of the Building Trades Group of the New South Wales Labour Council, warned that the fall-off in trained workers would cause standards to fall and costs to rise in the next few years. He was commenting on Bureau of Statistics figures showing that the total workforce on New South Wales building sites had fallen from 58 506 in March 1971 to 38 502 in March this year. There is also a drastic and increasing shortage of building apprentices undergoing training. But still the Government slashes away because of its misguided obsession with public enterprise. 
In all sorts of areas this Budget has overlooked the potential of government-led investment as a stimulant to economic activity. It has slashed the allocation for growth centres by 54.2 per cent, land councils by 53 per cent, sewerage by 56 per cent, old people's homes by 29 per cent, housing by 6.7 per cent, the Area Improvement Program by 96 per cent and has ripped into areas like aviation, transport, shipping and tourism- all areas where government spending acts as a fillip to the private sector. 
I turn now to the earlier point I made, that the Budget just does not come to terms with the basic ills of our economy. There are 3 closely related factors: Firstly, there is a fundamental structural imbalance which is the result of a misguided tariff structure and trade policy and adverse international price movements; secondly, the growth and influence of multinational firms; and, thirdly, associated with these 2 factors has been the development of technological growth and obsolescence. Evidence of these 3 forces is manifested in both primary and secondary industry in such non-linked activities as dairying and car manufacturing. Due to restrictions on the size of both the domestic and international markets neither of these industries should exist at their present size. But due to the ability of their various political pressure groups to persuade governments to maintain unrealistic tariff protection, sales tax and extensive subsidisation they have been encouraged to expand and develop expectations out of all proportion to economic reality. As a result they have been at once both the cause and the victims of a cost-price spiral which not only has inflationary implications for the economy as a whole but has also severely damaged their own economic viability. While this fundamental structural imbalance exists social value, which should be the key to production and efficiency tests, pales into insignificance. 
The need to test efficiency in terms of social value is no new notion. In fact, like the Treasurer's economic thinking, it gained currency before the great works of John Maynard Keynes. Such theorists as J. R. Eldridge made points in the 1920s that are relevant to our present situation. He was concerned that there could be no such thing as efficiency in anything which does not minister directly, constantly and effectively to the living needs of human beings. As was the case in the 1920s, the Treasurer should be addressing himself to questions such as: Why should a community possessed of abundant natural resources, which urgently needs commodities to satisfy the necessities of life, allow willing workers to become unemployed, to remain unemployed and to suffer all the horrors of privation, disease, degradation and human despair and death? If he were to look at such a question he would draw the inevitable conclusion that the cause is a basic and fundamental imbalance in the economy which he has so ineffectively tried to patch up. 
With reference to the second factor I mentioned earlier, the growth and influence of multinational corporations since World War II, we can see the manifestation of Marx's concentration and centralisation of capital. Fundamentally this has meant not only the growth of corporate states beyond the control of the nation state but also as seeing the ability of these firms to influence greatly governmental policy in their own favour. Inflationary consequences of the activities of multinationals in such areas as. currency, speculation, repatriation of profits, monopolistic price-fixing and demand manipulation are obvious. The third factor, technological obsolescence, is a little less tangible but nevertheless has had a considerable effect upon inflation and unemployment. A rapid growth of technology requires rapid adjustment of employees' skills and the decline in the number of unskilled jobs has made the lot of the untrained worker much more difficult. When he loses his job he may well fail to find another, particularly if he is over 40 years old. No matter how well equipped one is at age 25, in another 20 years one is likely to be partially obsolete- unless one is a Liberal politician. 
Many skills become completely outdated and unneeded. Similarly with capital development of Australian industry, much plant, equipment and methodology of production is obsolete. This has resulted in an excessively high cost structure by international standards and has clear inflationary consequences. The Australian economy is clearly in need of fundamental reorganisation. This may come in one of two ways: Either it will come as a direct result of government-initated reform of the economy or it will come as a result of an economic depression from which only the strong and the viable will emerge. Under the unenlightened administration of the present Government the first alternative seems out of the question. The second may become a reality, but what worries me is that the callous lack of concern shown for unemployment by this Government appears to me to mean that it is actually promoting such a situation. 
Before concluding I must state the obvious to this House and to the electorate. Apart from the economic madness of this Budget, the social implications are of a most sinister kind. I believe that the attitudes of the Government to social deprivation and need can be summed up by looking at its priorities. In a year when the profits of Comalco Ltd doubled in 6 months that company becomes the recipient of tax concessions, whereas with one-third of all Australian Aborigines unemployed, the Budget allocation for Aborigines is cut by $33m. What sort of heartless men run this Government? Everyone knows that they are the representatives of capital, but are they completely devoid of a sense of social justice? How can the back bench members of the Government parties be so cynical and cold as to allow overseas aid to be cut, migrant education to be murdered, health care to be mutilated and schemes for the aged and the unemployed to be rendered almost useless? What an uncaring, elitist group they must be. Why is it that only one Government supporter has openly criticised the deal the Aborigines are getting? Does not one Government supporter have the guts to say that migrant kids have the right to be educated for more than the most menial tasks? What about the attack on pharmaceutical benefits and tuberculosis programs? This Government stands exposed as the most elitist, cruel and deludedly business oriented in our history. It has set this nation irretrievably on a path of economic ruination and social mutilation. Unsubstantiated waffling about economic responsibility and major social reform changes nothing. The Government is presiding over chaos and despair. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is there widespread dissatisfaction with the level of student allowances at the tertiary level. 
Will the Government look at the possibility of pegging the Tertiary Education Allowances Scheme payments to the level of unemployment benefits. 
Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations honoured his undertaking made to me on 20 May last to make officers of his Department available to the program for unemployed self-help in my electorate of Batman? Will the Minister inform me of any assistance which he has offered or intends to offer to this worthwhile organisation as it is fighting for existence? 
-Is the Prime Minister aware that when the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs addressed a meeting at Monash University last week more than 100 police, with 22 cars as well as buses and brawler vans, were present? In a time of budgetary frugality, does he believe that this sort of deployment of government resources is necessary, in light of the fact that there was no demonstration and only SO people, twenty being policemen, attended? Is he aware that many people regard such shows of strength as intimidatory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many schoolchildren are there in the Electoral Division of Batman. 
How many (a) primary and (b) secondary school children are there in the Division in (i) State and (ii) independent schools. 
How many (a) first and (b) second generation migrant school children are there in the Division. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government regard the suppression and brutal riot control seen recently in South Africa as cause for the breaking of diplomatic ties with that country. 
Is the Government concerned that continued trade, diplomatic recognition and sporting and cultural ties, may serve to bolster the white Government and to jeopardise racial justice and equality. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Have the two most recent Arbitration Court decisions eaten into real wages, and will the introduction of expensive health care further erode real disposable income. 
If so, how does he expect the consumer component of aggregate demand to play a role in economic recovery. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister say how many electoral divisions contain 10 per cent or more of old age pensioners. 
Does the Government have any plans to help such areas with special funding for institutions and facilities which are needed by old people. 
Will the Government investigate the possibility of providing extra money for things like special travel arrangements, old age homes, home help services, and senior citizens' clubs and facilities, in such areas as Batman, on the basis of the fact that aged people constitute over 20 per cent of the voting population in these electoral divisions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the difficulty many tertiary students from poor families are having in existing under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme has led to wide post-budget ill feeling amongst student groups. 
) What is the Minister's attitude to the increasingly large and regular demonstrations opposing the present student assistance scheme. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government plan to establish a legal aid service in the Electoral Division of Batman. 
If not, will he undertake to look seriously at the possibility, as there is a great need for such facilities in the area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Are field officers of the Department allowed to enter a beneficiary's home without invitation. 
Is there any substance to allegations that agents of the Department do actually enter and search homes in order to establish whether widow pensioners are living alone or whether old age pensioners have defacto partners. 
Does the Minister accept that for a woman to live with another person does not of necessity make her financially dependant. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that if such sexist invasions of privacy have occurred they will cease immediately. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a large number of Asian students are disenchanted by moves to reintroduce university fees for overseas students. 
Will these moves force many Asian students to return home or place exceptional burdens on their families if they continue to study in this country. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to newspaper reports urging Federal action on the youth unemployment problem. 
) Can he say whether the Deputy Principal of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology has offered facilities for a conference on this matter. 
As people younger than 20 years old comprise 12 per cent of the workforce but almost 40 per cent of the unemployed, will he look into such offers and the problems which give rise to them. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a sum of $66,700 been allocated by the Commonwealth to an environmental impact study in Melbourne entitled the  Eastern Freeway Fl 9 Western Approach Study. 
Can he say whether the study is regarded widely as being a whitewash and most inadequate and, as such, a total waste of money. 
Has the study ignored parallel freeway development plans; if so, is the Government satisfied with the study. 
Will he take action to stop the funding of projects which pay little regard to the reaction and views of local persons. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many nursing homes exist in the Electoral Division of Batman. 
) What are the names of these institutions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that, only weeks after the Minister issued a statement in Victoria regarding the potential glut of teachers in that State, wide-spread evidence of teacher shortages has been released to the Press. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement by Victoria's State School Principals Association, that chronic teacher shortages are troubling many schools. 
If so, does the Minister still consider it expedient to freeze teacher training or was the Minister misquoted when reported as saying that the present level of enrolments in teacher education courses should be regarded as a maximum. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present stand of the Government regarding the Italian journalist Ignazio Salemi. 
Why was he classified as a visitor when he applied for residence under the amnesty, despite the fact that his visitor's permit had expired. 
Has the Government taken heed of the vast proSalemi feeling, both among the Italian people and the community in general. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the 1976-77 Budget provide an appropriation for the Governor-General's Office of $840,300 which is an increase of $529,865 over the expenditure for the previous year. 
If so, how much of the increase is for additional security costs. 
In a time of national frugality and belt tightening, why has the appropriation for that office more than doubled. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Health publication entitled How to Choose the Health Insurance Cover That's Right for You not been printed in a wide range of languages; if so, why. 
If it has been printed in a wide range of languages, why have these pamphlets not been distributed throughout the community. 
Does he plan to cater more directly to our non-English speaking communities. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. With reference to his statement last week regarding his placement of 6 young unemployed people, is it a fact (a) that only one of them had ever been registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service and that he had refused repeatedly to go to Melbourne for work; (b) that two of them did not ever take up their jobs; (c) that one lasted for only 2 days; and (d) that they were placed at the Nylex factory which had no vacancies registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service? Is the Prime Minister aware of large scale discontent and anger within the Commonwealth Employment Service at what is regarded as his bombastic and misleading statement? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is money made available for the Community Health Program during 1976-77 only for currently approved projects. 
If so, does this mean that even projects submitted during 197S-76, but not approved because of restrictions on Government funding, have no hope of proceeding, regardless of merit. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that two Soviet diplomats have been barred from Australia because they are suspected to be KGB agents. 
If so, is it the attitude of the Government that no country's diplomatic representation in Australia should be involved with secret or intelligence activities, or is it only those from the Communist world to which this applies. 
Is the Government satisfied that there are no CIA agents assigned as diplomats to Australia. 
-That this Budget makes inadequate provision for health services is well evidenced by a comparison of last year's expenditure with this year's estimates. The long list of areas in which there has been an actual decrease in funding is categorical proof that health care is a low priority for this Government. Although the cynical and elitist provisions of the Budget will have the effect of forcing approximately half the population into private health insurance and closing the door on equality of access to health service, the slashing of Medibank is only the start. Let us push aside all the empty rhetoric about the private sector leading us to economic prosperity and look with some humanity at the health care needs of our society. To make every area of Government expenditure a political football is heartless in the extreme, but to do that in relation to people's medical well-being is the last gasp. 
Let me refer to the figures for a moment. They are contained on page 38 of Budget Statement No. 1. General medical benefits are to be slashed by $79.7m; pensioners' medical benefits will be down by $5.3m; Medibank hospital benefits will be down by a vast $ 117.6m; and hospital benefits will be down by $76. 8m- a total reduction in hospital services and benefits of an astronomical $ 144.4m. Then, of course, there are cuts in pharmaceutical benefits to the extent of $6.6m. Expenditure on the treatment and prevention of tuberculosis does not escape either; it will be down by $5.3m. The constantly maligned Aborigines are squeezed even further by a reduction in their health services. True, it is only $1m, but given inflation it will make their cross impossible to bear. It is effectively a 15 per cent decrease in expenditure. In addition to that vast list, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and the anti-smoking campaign have to tighten their belts also. This Budget spells the end of Federal funds for the anti-smoking campaign in particular. 
They are the actual cuts, but they do not paint the picture as gloomily as it really is. Firstly, they are cuts in allocation relative to what was spent last year and not, as would be more meaningful, relative to what was allocated and therefore would have been spent if the present Government did not pursue its misguided preoccupation with budgetary frugality. Further, the figures I have given represent only the cutbacks. Almost every area has been effectively frozen. Any increases are either insufficient to cover increased costs or totally inadequate to finance much needed expansion. Total expenditure is down by $44m, but in real terms, after allowing for inflation, the picture is horrendous. 
Let me look at just a few such areas in more detail. What is important to note is that while funding continues, even though at constant or lower levels, what was actually needed in this Budget was extended spending. We find ourselves in a situation in which not only has the cost of health care increased for every Australian but also the availability of health services has been effectively reduced. What else can be made of the facts I shall now recite. Under the Labor Government spending on the hospitals' development program was increased to $108m. The present Government has allocated not one cent more than that. The result is that no account has been taken of inflation and, in fact, no money is allocated for programs that are not already in action. Almost all of the $108m in this year's Budget is already committed. What about health services for Aborigines? The Budget allocates $20. 5m for that purpose. That represents not just a reduction of last year's allocation; in real terms it is the castration of funding for hospital facilities, clinics, health centres and health education programs for our Aboriginal community. Surely that is not an area in which any humane government would start slashing, especially considering the immensity of the problems in that field. 
Let me turn finally to community health facilities. That is an area in which the 3 main deficiencies in the health estimates are well evidenced. Firstly, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech: 
A further $70m- compared with $S4.3m last year- has been provided for payment of grants to States, local government authorities, and other eligible organisations under the community health program. 
In fact, that is most misleading. I suggest that it is deliberately and cynically designed to indicate, wrongly, that the Fraser Government is actually increasing community health facilities. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Treasurer suggests that this year's allocation has been increased by $ 16.2m to $70m, when in 1975-76 the allocation was almost the same. Although it is true that $70. 7m was allocated, only $54.3m of the allocation was spent. But the Treasurer should not suggest that this year's estimates show a relative increase. That only 77 per cent of the allocation was used cannot be blamed on anyone but the present Government. If it did not indulge itself in the mad chase to cut Federal spending then much more of the 1975-76 Budget allocations would now be serving the Australian people. Put baldly, this year's allocation is the same as that of last year. The Treasurer should not use figures of expenditure as opposed to allocated amounts just because it is politically expedient to do so. Honesty would make a nice change. If it were not for this Government's reining in of last year's Budget allocations one project that could have gone ahead is the muchneeded community health centre in Northcote. However, be that as it may. 
Given the fact that the estimates for community health facilities have not increased at all, let me look at a second important element. The situation simply is that 15 per cent of the Australian public are without adequate health services. I know that only too well because my electorate of Batman is as poorly serviced as any other area. Despite that, the Budget allocates not even enough money to maintain current commitments. When inflation is taken into account, $88m and not $70m is needed just to keep abreast of current plans. Therefore, existing facilities, although inadequate, will have to do, and much needed new ones will be ignored completely. What do the Liberals say to the people of Northcote who have planned and worked hard for such a community health centre for more than 12 months? In a letter addressed to me on this matter the Minister said: 
You will be aware that an amount of $70m will be appropriated for the continuation of the community health program in 1976-77. This is a substantial contribution to the continuation of community health services but is available only to permit the maintenance of currently approved projects at previously approved levels of activity. Necessary restrictions on Commonwealth expenditure have meant that, at this stage, it has not been possible to provide community health program funds for new projects such as the Northcote proposal. 
That is what the Minister says to the people of Northcote. In effect, it means: 'Damn you, the worker can suffer while we court big business'. The last fault that I want to mention with this year's health budget is the form that the limited funding is to take. In his letter the Minister went on to say: 
I should add that future Commonwealth financial assistance for community health projects will take the form of annual block grants for State programs as a whole, and it will be primarily a matter for the State authorities to decide allocations to individual projects from the block grants. Organisations such as the Northcote Community Health centre society are therefore being advised that they should keep in touch with their State health authorities concerning the further consideration of their proposals in the event that community health program funds become available for new projects. 
So on top of the Budget allocation being too small, the Government is turning its back on responsibilities and passing a hot potato to the States. Meanwhile, it is unconcerned that community health programs administrators, such as those in West Heidelberg in Victoria, do not know what their allocation will be. Worse still, the planners of new facilities will have to mark time indefinitely. There you have it, a health Budget which is miserly and in the final analysis shirks the rightful responsibilities of a Federal Government. Like so many other areas, this part of the Budget Estimates is to be roundly condemned. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a public statement by the Ambassador for the United States of America to Australia, made on 4 July 1976, which referred to the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency in Australia. 
If so, did Ambassador Hargrove say that Australian intelligence organisations exchange information with the CIA and that the United States was perfectly satisfied with the information it has about Australia; if so, how intimate is this relationship. 
Is the Government assured that, given such a relationship, the CIA does not interfere with peculiarly domestic Australian matters such as elections. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has any indication been given to local government as to when payments for Federal financial aid will be made. 
As local government is required by statute to prepare its annual budget in the October-November period each year, will he consider making an annual payment now so as to facilitate proper economic planning by councils. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to figures released by the National Aboriginal Congress, which state that the average weekly income for Northern Territory Aborigines is between $6 to $8. 
) If so, are these figures correct. 
3 ) Do only 1 0 per cent of Aborigines living outside towns have regular access to clean water and lavatories. 
Do 90 per cent of Northern Territory Aborigines live in sub-standard houses. 
Are50 per cent of employable Aboriginal men unemployed in the Northern Territory. 
Do 40 per cent of Aboriginal children not attend school. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Why will future Commonwealth financial assistance for community health projects take the form of annual block grants for State programs as a whole. 
Does this mean that the Federal Government will play no direct role in funding these projects. 
Will this mean duplication of work by State Departments of Federal initiatives; if so, why. 
Does the Government see a role for the Federal administration in these matters; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Hospital and Health Services Commission issue statements indicating that certain community health programs will receive money during 1 976-77 and is it unable to substantiate these claims. 
If so, is this because block grants are made to the States and actual funding depends on the individual States budget. 
If the position is as stated, will he take steps to prevent these misleading statements or undertake to institute direct Federal funding. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1) Has he any plans to assist those people in the community who are chronically ill and need private hospital care. 
Will he consider the possibility of providing help to pensioners in such a position. 
Should pensioners continue to take out, or consider taking out, private medical insurance to cover themselves for such a contingency. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Was approximately $26,000 spent by the Australian Government because it took the Overseas Property Bureau more than a year to find a suitable residence for a Foreign Affairs officer and his family. 
Is it usual for officers to be placed in expensive hotels for long periods when they are transferred overseas. 
Will he ensure that similar wastage is eliminated in the future. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice: 
Was the ABC current affairs program 'This Day Tonight' ordered to drop the story on alleged atrocities by Australian troops in Vietnam, after airing it on 5 August, 1976. 
Has radio station2JJ been ordered to curb political comment. 
Did instructions to the ABC to desist from announcing details of future demonstrations against the GovernorGeneral come from the Government. 
Does he regard the ABC as free from Government interference in the nature and depth of political comment. 
Is there a strong under-current of dissatisfaction and disquiet amongst ABC staff at present. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the deep crisis in which the New South Wales building industry finds itself seems certain to worsen because of the recent Budget cutbacks in Government spending. 
As the total work force on N.S.W. building sites fell from 58 506 in March 1971 to 38 502 in March 1976, and as there is an increasing shortage of apprentices undergoing training, will action be taken to expand Government spending in this area. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) As the Bureau of Statistics' figures for May 1976 showed that nearly 34 per cent of all people looking for work had been unemployed for 6 months or more, does the Government intend looking at the problem of permanently unemployable people. 
Is there a case for expanding the re-training scheme, and the re-introduction of something like the RED Scheme under these circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the statement in the Report of the Auditor-General for 1975-76 that there has been large scale malpractice by Royal Australian Air Force personnel in the submission of claims for vehicle allowances. 
If so, how much of the sum falsely claimed has been recovered. 
What action is being taken to prevent a recurrence of this practice. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
Has it been demonstrated that many people in the community believe that the politicisation of the office of Governor-General and subsequent demonstrations have rendered the office valueless in terms of general acceptability. 
If so, what is his attitude to this widespread feeling. 
Does he see it as the fore-runner to moves for the abolition of the office as Australians have come to know it. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Is Australia monitoring closely Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean? If so, will the Government's recent decision to drop seasonally adjusted figures for unemployment mean that the resources of the Australian Bureau of Statistics can be mobilised to calculate and to seasonally adjust monthly counts of Soviet naval forces? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the system of payment using pension Medibank claim forms, with regard to the 'Pay Doctor' system, been changed recently. 
If so, why were doctors not informed until after the event. 
Why were doctors not consulted when the changes were mooted. 
What are the benefits of the change. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that Brisbane Aborigines are being constantly and unfairly harassed by police. 
If so, can he say if there is evidence that Aboriginal women are often arrested on fictitious charges of drunkenness and prostitution. 
Is there any evidence that treatment of arrested Aborigines is often vulgar, physically demeaning and verging on sexist attacks on human decency. 
Will he make detailed investigations into these matters to avoid allegations that any denial is a whitewash. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Report of the Auditor-General for 1975-76 indicate that the Budget deficit for 1 975-76 was $700m more than estimated. 
If so, does this render meaningless his repeated statements about restraint. 
What action does he intend to take to insure that the number and extent of examples of wastage and mismanagement in 1975-76 will be reduced significantly in 1976-77. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Did he go to Jakarta with a request from Ampol for the sale of Indonesian crude oil at favourable rates? Is he negotiating a sea border between Timor and Australia which will be of great potential benefit to Australian and multinational oil companies? Does he consider that de facto recognition of Indonesian integration of East Timor is a reasonable price to pay for such benefits to the oil industry? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that hundreds of workers and their families are leaving Canberra because of cuts in the Public Service and the depression in the building industry. 
Are rents actually falling in some areas. 
Is the number of houses for sale 3 times that which would be regarded as the average during the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his recent move to increase the immigration quota by 20 000 persons provoked the comment in some sectors, that it is a deliberate attempt to increase the pool of unemployed. 
If so, is there any evidence that this is not the case. 
Will the increased quota mean that compassionate immigration for people from countries such as Lebanon will be made more accessible. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the claim of one Victorian specialist that there are between 3000 and 4000 people with artificial eyes in that State and that while most cosmetic surgery is claimable under Medibank, this particular group of sufferers cannot claim. 
If so, has the Government any plans to change this situation; if not, why not 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Has widespread concern been provoked in the Boot Trades Industry by the Industries Assistance Commission's proposal for increased quotas on imported footwear. 
Have industry sources claimed that the livelihood of the trade 's work force is at stake. 
Can he say what effect this move would have on apprenticeships in the industry. 
At a time when employment in the footwear trade is only 60 per cent of the 1970 level, and unemployment very high generally, does the Government consider the Commission's recommendation as tenable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the widely held belief that members' telephones have been connected to various electronic recording and listening devices. 
Is it a fact that the staff of some members and public servants are loath to use the Parliamentary telephone system when discussing confidential matters. 
Is it possible that telephone tapping could exist without the knowledge of the Minister or his Ministerial colleagues. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Is the Government planning to destroy or place major restrictions on the operations of Sydney's ethnic radio station 2EA. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the Victorian Government 's decision to outlaw the cut price sale of beer. 
Will he take action to prevent the Victorian Government acting contrary to the interests of consumers and free enterprise, by referring this matter to the Trade Practices Commission. 
Does the Victorian Government's action amount to capitulation to vested interests contrary to the spirit of free enterprise and open competition. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the last Prices Justification Tribunal decision to increase the price of BHP steel bring the total percentage increase in steel prices in the last 1 2 months to 25 per cent. 
2 ) Does it also represent an increase of 90 per cent in the last 3 years. 
If so, is this increase in excess of twice the inflation rate. 
Can he say whether the increases will make workers, who are forced to accept plateau indexation, sceptical of the relative justice of the tribunals for labour and big business. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Are Australian scientists being sponsored by the Atomic Energy Commission to receive training in the United States of America in general nuclear technology. 
If so, does this training include the processing of nuclear power and the manufacture of plutomom which can be usedin atomic bombs. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government considering barring Fretilin leaders from Australia and stopping Telecom from receiving and disseminating Fretilin messages from inside East Timor. 
If so, is this action an outgrowth of fear of instability in South East Asia. 
Does he see any parallels with this sort of thinking now, and that which led Australia into the war in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Will 8000 students be financially worse off under the Government's new proposals on tertiary allowances, and will others now receiving allowances become ineligible. 
Will all students be discouraged from working during vacations because they are allowed to earn only $1,500 per annum, whereas previously, under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, they could earn that amount during the year and an unlimited sum during vacation. 
Are bonded trainee teachers in Victoria and South Australia now ineligible for assistance because they receive $600 per annum from their respective State Governments. 
Has the Government claimed that allowances have increased by up to $ 10; if so, is it a fact that the vast majority will still receive less than $42 per week which is the figure recommended by a Government inquiry over 12 months ago. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the attitude of the Government to recent demonstrations in Sydney over the demotion of ABC producer Jennifer Hillier. 
Can he say whether the demotion is seen by some people as another attack on the ABC's special projects branch. 
Can he also say whether there was a large number of signatures from the general public placed on the petitions circulated on this issue. 
Is there any plan to destroy the ABC radio special projects department in accord with the recommendations of the Green Inquiry. 
Does the Government regard the Green Inquiry as free of policitical bias. 
Does the Government consider that the ABC, especially the special projects branch, is fulfilling an important role in providing for a wide spectrum of political and social opinion. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the survey carried out by the International Labour Organisation, as reported on 8 August 1976 in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  do the figures regarding unemployment for women reflect the Australian situation. 
Are women the first fired and last hired in times of economic recession. 
Is the percentage of unemployed women in excess of 40 per cent while the proportion of women in the work force is only 35 per cent. 
Does the Government have any plan to combat the problems which women have with regard to unemployment in times of economic slump. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs upon notice: 
Why did the Australian Government grant a visitor's visa to former Israeli Defence Minister Moshe Dayan. 
Having regard to the recent admission of Israeli General Bar-lev and now the visit of Dayan, is the Government showing prejudice to one party m the Middle East conflict. 
Will the Government consider lifting its ban on the admission of Palestinian student leader Eddie Zananiri in the interest of an even handed approach to international affairs. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that the Indonesian Government is attempting to isolate East Timor from the outside world. 
Is his Department monitoring events in East Timor and, in particular, endeavouring to ascertain if the alleged attempted isolation is to be used as a cover-up for the carrying out of atrocities. 
3 ) Will he investigate and report fully to the House on the allegations that Indonesia is attempting to starve out Fretilin supporters in the Highlands by cutting them off from proper food supplies. 
If the allegations are found to be correct, will the Government still recognise Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the cut from $230,000 in 1975-76 to $ 1 90,000 in 1 976-77 for the budget of the Medical Service in Redfern means that they cannot continue to give service to Aborigines at the present level? 
If so, how will it be possible for the Service to undertake the necessary improvements in premises and services that are so badly needed, under these circumstances? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the extensive number of examples of wastage and discrepancy, brought to light in the Report of the AuditorGeneral for 1975-76, a result of Public Service mismanagement, or, as has been suggested, illegal management. 
Will he take action to ensure that misappropriation will be eliminated. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1) Is the recent monetary boost in respect of Aboriginal Affairs still $8m short of the $33m slashed from the allocation in the 1 976-77 Budget; if so, why. 
Is it a fact that funds have still not been allocated for health programs. 
3 ) Is any of the money slashed from capital works such as schools and health clinics, likely to be restored. 
How is it envisaged that the nutritional and health problems of our Aborigines can be tackled under such circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Union of Christmas Island Workers made a formal complaint to the Community Relations Commissioner. 
Have Asian workers on the Island been receiving wages as low as $28 per week, while Europeans get Australian awards. 
Are Asians working on the Island employed on short term contracts to prevent them from staying on the Island long enough to gain Australian Citizenship. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say on 19 November 1976 that if people want to settle in Australia they must apply through the proper channels, and if they come here illegally, we cannot check on their background or their health. 
If so, can he say whether some people have reacted to the statement by saying that vetting on political grounds is the object of the checks. 
Are people of Arab, Mediterranean and Asian extraction more likely to be closely checked for political background then those of Anglo Saxon origin. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne may have to close its doors through lack of financial support. 
Is it also a fact that the initial funding, which it received from the International Women's Year Advisory Committee, was insufficient for continued operation. 
Is it considered that the work done by the Centre, for women of all occupations in the important areas of child care, equal pay and maternity leave, is of value. 
Is it a fact that, at present, there is no other organisation capable of covering these and other related matters efficiently. 
Did the 'Women's Bureau' of his Department undertake an evaluation of the Centre 3 months ago and has it, as yet, not come to him for a decision; if so, when will a decision be made. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the cost of (a) designing and (b) manufacturing the initial supply of insignia for the Australian Honours system  (Hansard,  22 September 1976, page 1350). 
How many pieces of insignia have been ordered for each level in the Order of Australia 
What is the average cost of the insignia awarded to a person appointed to each level in the Order. 
Who is manufacturing the insignia. 
Were tenders called for the manufacture of the insignia. 
What is the average cost of the insignia awarded to a person appointed to each level in the Imperial Honours awarded to Australians. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that doctors in some New South Wales towns are continuing to refuse to treat patients under Medibank. 
) If so, does this refusal extend to pensioners. 
Has he appealed to the doctors to do the right and proper thing. 
If so, what response has he had. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the widely held belief that Parliamentarians' telephones, both in this building and their electorate offices, have been connected to various electronic recording and listening devices. 
Is it a fact that the staff of some Members and public servants are loath to use the Parliamentary telephone system when discussing confidential matters. 
Is it possible that telephone tapping could exist without his knowledge or the knowledge of his Ministerial colleagues. 
As a similar question addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services was deemed outside his control, will he undertake to use his powers over such matters to initiate a full inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the Government ordered Telecom Australia to cease passing on messages it receives in Darwin from the Fretilin transmitter in Timor. 
If so, does this mean that this particular group now has no access to the outside world. 
Will the Government take any action at all to allow the world to know what is happening behind the curtain of secrecy being maintained in Timor. 
-Is it the intention of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to answer a question which I placed on the notice paper on 2 December last year? I remind the honourable gentleman that question No. 1688 refers to the practice of telephone tapping and calls for an investigation. Can the Minister say whether this question has gained great import recently, and whether he will answer it or let it dissolve with the Parliament at the end of the week? 
I have always had what I regard as a necessarily healthy cynicism about the parliamentary process and the ability of a back bencher to influence it, but today my contribution to this debate really causes me to question the pointlessness of it all. I listened with absolute amazement to the Queen's Speech, and I mentally reeled with horror as cliche after meaningless cliche was strung together in the production of a so-called master plan which was neither masterly nor a plan. However, it was not only that the content of the Speech was deceptive in its generalities- we have come to expect that from tory governments- but rather that it matters not how many holes are shot through it or how many arguments one summons to criticise this Government. It does not matter a proverbial pinch of salt. The Fraser Government will not listen. It does not care. It clothes one elitest anti-working class proposal after another in thinly disguised egalitarian verbiage or false and misleading claims about its concern for the individual and liberty. I am aware of my impotence to change its attitudes or even to cause a pang of conscience. But for the few souls listening to this debate who are not already convinced I will attempt to expose the hollowness of the non-program of this Government. 
The facts are that there are not viable plans for solving inflation, that there is not a solitary care for unemployed people, that there is no semblance of planning or concern in the fields of social welfare, health, urban planning, Aboriginal affairs, the aged or education. Let me look briefly at the Speech we are debating. I urge honourable members to look rationally and critically at the looseness of the phraseology and therefore its meaninglessness. Take this as an example: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern: commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
If that is not bad enough I instance this one: 
My Government is committed to assisting people overcome poverty and disadvantage, and is giving priority to assisting those most in need in a manner increasing their choice, dignity and self-respect. 
I give one final example on education which will do nothing to help the actual problems which exist in this field: 
My Government is improving the existing arrangements in education in pursuit of equality of opportunity for all Australian students. 
This hollow 8 minute speech which was masqueraded as a program should however come as no surprise to any who read the address delivered by the Governor-General at last year's opening of Parliament. At least this Government shows a consistency which enables us to evaluate it. The consistency of course is nothing short of frightening and frightful. It is instructive to look at the earlier effort to gauge just how irrelevant the hollow sentiments of such addresses to the Parliament are to actual intended performances and action. Speaking in this House on 23 March last year I called the Governor-General's Speech 'a vague exercise in the juxtaposition of cliches and generous but hollow sentiments'. I ask honourable gentlemen to look back over the last 14 months while I quote from that Speech. If they did not believe me then, I say to them now: Cop this for real underhand connivance and for hollow, meaningless and cynical verbiage. The Governor-General said: 
My Government's immediate objective is to bring inflation under control so that there can again be jobs for all who want to work. 
That is a hackneyed and discredited line by now. What about this next quote for a joke in poor taste? He said: 
The Government's long term objective is to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life, in ways which they decide. 
Here is a nice piece of generalised garbage: 
At the root of the economic crisis is a steadily increasing tax burden required to finance, at the expense of the private sector, an ever-growing public sector. Measures to deal with this crisis will advance Australia towards the long-term goal of a society based on freedom and on the mutual respect freedom makes possible. 
Then the Governor-General talked about strategy. I refer the house to his point ( 3 ). He said: 

 Major reforms will be implemented to protect individuals from being subjected to massive unlegislated tax increases. 
Point (5) read: 
The total wealth of Australians will be expanded by the encouragement of enterprise, and by the reassertion of the Government's role in establishing an appropriate legal framework for economic life. 
The first point is a pie in the sky which the Government has pushed into the dark and the second is a woolly, verbose exercise in nothingness. What about the strategy for economic prosperity? The Governor-General said: 
Concurrent with action to bring the deficit under control the Government has announced a number of measures to further restrain inflation, encourage investment in plant and equipment and expand job opportunities in the private sector. 
Given the difference between the aim and the result I am tempted to ask: What happened to single digit inflation? Then of course the Governor-General said: 
Rural industries will not be neglected as they have been in the past. 
At last we have the truth. They certainly have not been. Many small farmers have never been worse off. What about the following statement as an underhand way of saying that union bashing will be a big plank in the Government's platform. The Governor-General said: 
The Government intends to increase the capacity of Australian workers and employers to decide the leadership of their organisations. Legislation will be introduced providing for officially conducted secret ballots in elections for officials in organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
On health- the biggest joke of all- he said: 
Medibank will be retained and the Government will ensure it operates efficiently. 
Who would expect school leavers to have to wait 6 weeks before being permitted to register for unemployment benefit after this statement? 
Measures have been taken to ensure that only those genuinely eligible receive unemployment benefit. The Government will do everything in its power to ensure that these measures are applied with a sensitivity and understanding that respects the dignity of the unemployed. 
Sensitivity, understanding and dignity are words without meaning for the Prime Minister. Then, of course, there is the issue of women's rights. I wonder what those involved in the financially pinched working women's centre in Melbourne would say about the following: 
The Government is firmly committed to furthering equality of opportunity for women in education, employment, and in public life. 
Also, the pressure on ethnic radio funding makes a mockery of the following statement: 
The Government recognises the major contribution that migrants have made to Australia. It will intensify action to meet the needs of migrant and ethnic communities in Australia. 
Honourable members should listen to this: 
The thrust of the Government's policy in Aboriginal affairs is to promote self-management and self-sufficiency for Aboriginals. To this end the Government will be considering ways of providing opportunities for Aboriginals to play a significant role in setting their long term goals and objectives, priorities for expenditure, and in evaluating existing programs and formulating new ones. 
With literally millions of dollars slashed from Aboriginal housing, health and education, that statement hardly makes sense. I think that the final line in the Governor-General's speech sums up the whole thing: 
I now leave you in the faith that Divine Providence will always guide your deliberations and further the welfare of the people of Australia. 
Nothing that the Government promised to do happened in the way it predicted. The Government relied solely on Divine Providence in the cases where it did not flagrantly disregard its promises. 
Whatever the Queen has promised this time is irrelevant, given this Government's record for ignoring its publicly stated aims. Historically and consistently Liberal governments couch their aims generally and break their promises willynilly. Last year in this debate I said that I foresaw that this Government would dismantle rather than build a socially equitable society, that it would blame the worker and the weak for economic problems which emanate from the Western capitalistic system, and most importantly that it would place on the backs of the working class the job of getting Australia back to so-called economic prosperity. I am no prophet. One does not  need a crystal ball to know what this Government is likely to do or not to do, and it is of absolutely no assistance to look at the so-called plan of action as represented in the Speech opening this Parliament. The track record is what has to be analysed. The past is the guide to what the Government will do in the future, and nothing has changed. 
Let us look at wage indexation and the Arbitration Court in relation to what this Government has done; the castration of the Regional Employment Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme; the promise of anti-union legislation; the nastiness shown towards the Aboriginal community; the haranguing of social service recipients and tertiary education students; the disregard for the status of women, community health and urban planning; and the mutilation of Medibank. These are the areas in which the Government really shows its colours. It is inept; we all know that. But it is much worse; it is sinister, cruel and elitist. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Government give a reason to Malaysian student Hishamuddin Rais, for rejecting his request for political asylum. 
If not, will he now give a reason. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) Does his Department ever grant money for land acquisition for freeway development other than in hardship cases. 
Could bodies like the Victorian Country Roads Board ever use this money to influence people to sell their homes or other properties when they had little or no prior intention to sell. 
What is the exact nature of the land acquisition funding proposal for the Hume Freeway between Bell Street and Clifton Hill, Victoria, as released in November 1 976. 
Can people in Northcote expect a freeway to carve up their city soon. If not, how can hardship cases exist, let alone require funding. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is he aware that in the area serviced by the Heidelberg branch of the Commonwealth Employment Service alone there are 1382 people unemployed and only 62 registered vacancies despite the diligence of the personnel of that office? Is he aware that over 45 per cent of those people are under 2 1 years of age and that despite the good intentions of the local community youth support scheme group, very few of them can be helped? In fact, over 600 people of the prescribed age are unaided and remain unemployed. What plans does the Government have to aid promptly and humanely the young unemployed in all electorates, especially those like mine? What does the Minister intend to do about the fact that there are only 4 jobs registered at the Heidelberg CES office for girls under 21 years of age when there are 360 females of that age group unemployed? 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that representatives from the Lipton Tea Co. are reported to be buying back tea from the supermarket shelves in preparation for a pending price explosion? If not, will he investigate the matter? If it proves that such is the case, what action will the Minister take? Does such activity make a mockery of many - 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Will he order an investigation into the alleged misuse of the Government subsidy made to employers who take on unemployed personnel for retraining. 
Has his attention been drawn to allegations that during this retraining some employers take the persons being retrained off the specified duties and put them on to other work. 
If so, do employers still receive the subsidy payable in respect of each employee under this scheme in those circumstances; if so, why. 
Is there any parallel between employers who exploit the Government subsidy for retraining unemployed people, and those people who draw unemployment benefits under false pretences. 
Are there many examples of employers drawing money from the public purse in such a way. 
If so, does he plan to take action commensurate with that taken on so-called 'dole bludgers'. 
How many persons can a businessman employ under the Government subsidy available for retraining unemployed personnel. 
Could this subsidy be used to reduce or almost eliminate the need for fully qualified tradesmen in a business. 
Is there a possibility of tradesmen whose wages are not subsidised to some extent by the Federal Government's scheme being at a disadvantage in gaining or keeping their jobs in industries where retraining can be undertaken to the financial benefit of employers. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1977:  (.1 ) Has the Government slashed a further $6m from Aboriginal Affairs in the Northern Territory. 
If so, was this money to have been spent on upgrading schools in Aboriginal communities in the Territory. 
Has one school at Elcho Island been closed for health reasons, and does it continue to lack proper toilet facilities. 
What expenditure does he envisage to help the 400 children at this school and the many others affected. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether the Commonwealth Bank employs electricians, carpenters, fitters, motor mechanics and other tradesmen in their maintenance division. 
) If so, are there any apprentices employed by the Bank. 
If not, would this provide an ideal opportunity for the Government to show the way in helping the young unemployed find a trade. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
Did he say that it would be a tragedy if Australia became a republic, because the monarchy is important because Australians want stability in institutions, so they can plan ahead with a real degree of security. If so, is this a true indication of his sentiments. 
Does he consider that such stability of institutions extends to parliamentary convention generally. 
If so, are there any exceptions to such a rule of thumb. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is he aware of reports that the Government is considering installing heart monitoring facilities to keep a constant check on the weight, blood pressure, pulse rate and cholesterol level of parliamentarians? If so, will the checks be compulsory and will the Minister say whether the use of taxpayers' money for such purposes justifies public disclosure of the results so that constituents may be aware of the health of their elected representatives? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Is there any evidence that Central Intelligence Agency activities at Pine Gap include the operation of a super bug that is able to monitor any telephone or telex message into or out of Australia. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
Will the so-called stock valuation adjustment scheme introduced into Parliament on 23 April 1977 effectively reduce company tax from 42.5 per cent to an average of 37 per cent. 
Will the change be worth approximately $360m to companies in 1977-78. 
Is this the sort of action envisaged when the Government talks of tax cuts. 
Is the wage and salary earner likely to get a cut in taxes of proportional value in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
Have funds for the Community Youth Support Scheme been frozen pending pre-Budget deliberations. 
How many schemes in Victoria have been approved in principle but are awaiting a Cabinet decision before they are funded. 
Can he say whether there are still quite a number of groups intending to apply for CYSS funding. 
Can he also say whether a group in Northcote is hopeful that a public meeting on 9 June 1977 will initiate proposals for funding. 
As 482 young people are unemployed in the area serviced by the Northcote Commonwealth Employment Service Office, does this cause a problem of dimensions serious enough to warrant a Community Youth Support Scheme. 
Is it a fact that the ratio of job vacancies to young unemployed persons runs at over SO to 1 against those out of work in Northcote. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
1 ) Can the Minister say whether nuclear physicists at the Australian National University have decided to abandon a major solar energy project as being too practical and simple for a university. 
2 ) If so, did this decision deprive Professor Steven Kaneff of the $1.4m needed over the next 5 years to perfect the ability to tap, store and even export solar energy. 
Can the Minister say if Professor Kaneff has claimed that his research indicates that the project he is working on could generate enough heat energy to power a city the size of Adelaide. 
Can the Minister also say whether the Australian National University has instead decided to reserve its funds for research into pure science such as nuclear physics and diffusion research. 
5 ) If so, is this a reaction to the pro-nuclear lobby. 
Does the Government consider that solar energy research is worthy of priority spending. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 4 May 1 977: 
1 ) Can he say whether it has recently been recommended that $3m be spent to improve the facilities in the Ayers Rock - Mount Olga National Park. 
Has he taken seriously the suggestion by a United States nuclear expert, that the money would be well spent to finance tunnelling work under the big rock to provide a storage space for nuclear waste. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recommendations made at the recent Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference with regard to the world's use of water resources and the disposal of waste. 
ls he able to say whether it was widely accepted at that Conference that the problem must be approached at a world level to be resolved. 
Is he also able to say whether, while the world's arms bill is $A225,000m, the $A 1,800m needed to provide clean water to the world is barely available. 
If so, does this mean that if 1 per cent of the world's arms bill was spent each year for the next 1 0 years on providing fresh water, the entire world's population would be catered for by 1990. 
Is the Government concerned that there is a lack of resource material on the water-borne and related diseases of typhoid, cholera, water snail and dysentery. 
What is the Government's attitude toward the fact that in the Third World alone 25000 persons die from water-borne diseases daily, and half of every average family suffers from the energy sapping disease of water snail, i.e. 30 million people in all. 
Can he say whether for 1220 million people in the Third World uncontaminated water is a financial impossibility. 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact that the Australian branch of the University International Foundation  is so concerned about this matter that they want hint to raise it at the Prime Minister's Conference in London next month. 
If so, will he undertake li&gt; du so. 
What is the Government's general attitude to both the clean water problem and the apparent misuse of world resources, if one considers arms spending. 
What plans does the Australian Government have to execute its responsibilities to the Third World on this matter. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Women's Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
With reference to his answer on 24 May 1977  (Hansard,  page 1774) that a working women's centre has not yet been established in Adelaide and the answer of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on 9 December 1976  (Hansard,  page 3702) that Adelaide is among the cities where there are Working Women's Centres or Groups, what is the reason for the difference in the answers. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that a group named the Australian Freedom Group recently released the names and addresses of the entire staff of the Joint Intelligence Organisation. Did this group claim that the list was supplied to it by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? Have any steps been taken to establish how this list of names came to be leaked? If the group's claim is correct, how does the Government justify large budgetary increases to organisations which fight private wars among themselves? In the light of the action taken against public servants for minor breaches of official secrets legislation, what action will the Government take in relation to this unprecedented disclosure of the staff of an entire secret organisation? How does this leaking of the names of the staff of the JIO affect the relationship between Australia's security organisations and foreign security organisations, in particular the Central Intelligence Agency? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Did he tell the 19th Australian Legal Convention that his Government had initiated more law reforms than previous governments dominated by lawyers. 
If so, was he referring to initiatives like the Industrial Relations Bureau, abolition of the Australian Legal Aid Service, restriction of the Aboriginal Legal Service, and the Government's interpretation of the High Court ruling regarding unemployment benefits to school leavers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Melbourne weekly newspaper  Truth  that his Department has recognised  Dr Brych  of the Cook Islands by allowing Medibank rebates to his Australian cancer patients. 
If sofa) does this mean that he no longer believes  Dr Brych  is a fake and 
will this mean that blood from Australian donors will be made available to the doctor's clinic. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Why has the Government not decided what interpretation should be placed on the judgment handed down in the High Court with regard to school leavers and the unemployment benefit. 
How many young people does the Minister estimate are awaiting this decision. 
Is it appreciated that at least one person in my electoral division who registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service in November 1976, and is still unemployed, is awaiting a decision on this matter. 
What does the Minister recommend that local members say to persons, such as the one mentioned, when they come for advice. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What is the percentage of unemployed persons per head of work force in Northcote, Victoria. 
What are the comparable percentages in (a) Heidelberg, (b) Collingwood, (c) Greensborough, (d) Ballarat, (e) Boronia, (0 Camberwell, (g) Mentone and (h) Prahran. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 25 August 1977. 
1 ) Do the Government's spending decisions on education announced on 3 June 1977 effectively involve the transfer of about $ 1 3 m from government schools to private schools. 
Did the announcement indicate that real growth in education at both school and university level was actually cut. 
Will 1978 be the start of a major slow-down in education outlays. 
Are the guidelines for 1979 and 1980 a true representation of the Government's intentions. 
If so, why were the guidelines given in 1976 for 1978 not adhered to in accordance with this consistency. 
Was the Government's decision to reallocate money from public to private schools based on any recommendations by the Schools Commission. 
Was this decision taken on political grounds and not for education reasons. 
Was the original function of the Schools Commission to be an independent arbiter deciding where funds should be directed. 
If so, does the fact that the Government has now given direct instructions on overall financial guidelines in considerable detail throw a new light on the independence of the Commission. 
Will the new guidelines mean that in an immediate sense it is harder for students to gain access to universities and colleges. 
Will most tertiary institutions have to slash their budgets and retrench some of their staff. 
12) Will operating resources per student in universities fall substantially. 
What effect will the decision have on (a) the job market for academics and (b) planned capital projects in tertiary institutions. 
14) Except for the $3.1m which has been granted to nonGovernment Teachers Colleges, will Colleges of Advanced Education have the same funds in 1978 as they did in 1977, if one takes into account the price rises factor. 
Did the last report of the Australian Universities Commission state that the guidelines for the 1977-79 triennium specify a minimum growth in expenditure for the second and third years of the triennium (2 per cent) and that unless this is a guaranteed minimum rate of growth, such forward planning will not be possible and the arrangements will not constitute a triennial system. 
16) If so, does the fact that the Government has changed its mind now mean that triennial funding no longer exists. 
Does it also mean that funds will now be tighter in Government schools than for many years. 
Will many schools be battling to ensure that standards do not fall. 
19) Is it a fact that while Federal funds to Government schools are not increasing in real terms, enrolments in these schools will rise by 0.5 per cent. 
Will some of the richest non-government schools get more money in 1978. 
If so, does this reflect a redistribution of government spending away from schools in 'have not' communities. 
Is he able to say whether the Treasurer indicated on 20 May 1977 that the Education Commissions were to work on the basis of a 2 per cent increase in real terms for spending in universities and schools in 1978 and 1979. 
If so, did the Treasurer also call these figures rninimum figures for planning guidance only. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that many people in the field of education regard these statements and the final decisions as examples of broken promises and demoralising in the extreme for education planners. 
Will the cut-backs from original estimates render much administrative planning wasted. 
Is it the Government's view that there should be zero or minus real growth in education over a long period of time- a consolidation period. 
Were Commission guidelines broken in 1977; if so, must future guidelines be regarded with some scepticism. 
Exactly what sum will be transferred from what hitherto has been the public school section to private schools on the basis of ( a) the Government 's decision to raise grants in private schools in categories (1) and (2) to a rate equivalent to 20 per cent of the running costs per pupil in Government schools, (b) the Government's direction to the Schools Commission to include in its recommendations provision to link private school grants automatically to average per pupil costs in Government schools and (c) the Government's direction to provide a special capital grant of $3m to help private school construction in new areas for 1 978. 
Will the Government make an explanatory statement about the policy behind this $3m grant. 
30 ) Will this grant encourage the expansion of the private school system into new areas on an on-going basis. 
If the estimate of one weekly newspaper that the total shift in resources from Government to private schools will be of the order of $ 1 2- 1 4m is incorrect, what will the shift actually be. 
Will the net effect of the new directions in education spending be to weaken the Schools Commission. 
Did the  Chairman  of the Schools Commission describe the Government's approach as both divisive and disruptive. 
Does the Government have any plans to make a definitive and genuine policy statement on education; if so, when. 
) If the Government does not have any plans to make a policy statement, what is the reason. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
In the light of the trenchant criticism of Australia's secret agencies contained in the published part of the Hope report, what has the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation done in the last 12 months to warrant the considerable increase in its budgetary allocation. 
Is this increase part of a featherbedding exercise to reduce the impact of unemployment among public servants. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement in the  Australian  of 13 June 1977 that in this year of the Silver Jubilee, The Queen and her unique, colourful cast of thousands appear to be leading a moral and financial recovery in Britain. 
If so, did he see any signs which would support this claim while in England. 
If he saw signs to support the claim, are these good grounds for retention of the monarchy. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Do figures issued by the Bureau of Statistics on 10 June 1977 show that economic recession in Australia worsened during the March quarter given that total production of nonfarm goods and services declined by 0.9 per cent. 
2 ) Has the annual economic growth rate for 1 976-77 slipped back to 3.2 per cent. 
3 ) Is the current economic growth rate well below the target figure he has predicted repeatedly. 
Given that in the March quarter 1976 non-farm production rase by 1.9 per cent compared to the decline of 0.9 per cent in the March quarter 1977, when does he now predict economic recovery will begin. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) While speaking at the Commonwealth Conference on 9 June 1977 in London, did he denounce the treatment of black people in Southern Africa as an offence to human decency and a scourge to the dignity of man. 
Did he also say that what happens in Africa affects us all. 
If so, did his second statement reflect the fact that Southern Africa is a danger area for world imperialism and as such Australian capitalists are as much bound up with finding a solution in this area as those of America and England. 
Has his attention been drawn to comments by some observers that his statements more accurately reflect a long term economic concern than humane considerations, especially in the light of Australia's own race relations record. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
Can the Australian community assume that in line with his anti-apartheid speech at the recent Commonwealth Conference examples of segregation of Aborigines in this country will soon be eliminated. 
If so, will those Aborigines living on reserves be brought to the cities and integrated into Australian life and will this have the dual benefit of giving the present Administration the appearance of domestic policy being consistent with its international utterances, while simultaneously removing Aborigines from reserves which are located on top of uranium deposits. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) Is the interest rate on housing loans to the States to be increased from 4 per cent to 10.5 per cent. 
If so, will this mean that rent for a Sydney 3-bedroom Housing Commission home could rise to $80 per week. 
Will there also be a decline in the number of new welfare houses being built. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a submission for funding under the Community Youth Support Scheme lodged with his Department in Melbourne in the name of the Northcote Youth Employment Support Scheme. 
If so, is this an extremely comprehensive examination of the problem of out of work young people in the municipality of Northcote. 
Does he envisage any delay in the funding of this particular project. 
When will approval be given. 
Is it likely that the full amount sought in the submission will be approved; if not, why not. 
Is it the State committee or the central body of his Department which approves these submissions. 
Do either of these committees have the practice of hearing from the persons involved in the preparation of CYSS submissions. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to accusations made at the 19th Australian Legal Convention regarding legal aid. 
If so, do claims that the Government hopes to quietly dispose of legal aid have any foundation. 
Was the Commonwealth Government's review of legal aid part of a campaign to drop it completely. 
Is the attempt to negotiate with the States in relation to setting up their own Legal Aid Commissions not only an attempt to avoid waste and duplication but also pan of the move for the Commonwealth Government to desert the field. 
Is legal aid a political liability for the Government; if not, will it act to overcome the present staff shortages in legal aid offices. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Does he send a copy or multiple copies of every news release he issues to every office and section of his Department. 
If so, could this action be seen as not only informing the Department of ministerial decisions on legislation and policy, but also as a means to present an exclusive political view to public servants. 
Should a Minister's paramount role be to administer his department, and should attempts to politicise it be out of order. 
Did he authorise the sending of copies of News Release 44/77 headed ALP NATIONAL CONFERENCE to all officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
How many copies of this news release were sent to offices and sections of the Department. 
Was the content of News Release 44/77 of the nature of policy information. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that many CES officers regard it as a purely political statement, and resent receiving these press statements on the grounds that they are only exposed to one standpoint via these means. 
Did one of his news releases contain the following statement: 'You can't teach an old dog new tricks, and from the ALP kennels in Perth, there are certainly no new acts. As  Mr Hawke  said at the ALP National Conference yesterday, 'the eyes of Australia are on them'. But it is crystal clear that the Labor Party is persisting with its old policies which put this country in the worst economic depression for decades, and for which we are now all paying dearly. After the first day of their Conference, the ALP has shown that it has learned little from its disastrous term in Government. It has shown itself clearly to be a direct and continuing threat to Australia's future. 
If so, is it important that officers of his Department are acquainted with these views. 
Has his attention been drawn to accusations that as their origins are ministerial news releases, they are tantamount to indoctrination, and represent a misuse of public money. 
1 1 ) If so, what action will be take to either avoid such criticism in the future, or enable opposite points of view to be disseminated to public servants. 
